Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information filed in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common shares. There may be additional risks which the Company is currently unaware of or which we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or value of our common shares. Risks Related to the Business of Insurance and Reinsurance The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and Argo Group may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates; conversely, Argo Group may have a shortage of underwriting capacity when premium rates are strong both of which could adversely impact Argo Group’s results. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, adverse trends in litigation, regulatory constraints, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry capital that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity increased premium levels. Demand for reinsurance depends on numerous factors, including the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and underwriting results of primary insurers. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, recent loss experience and capital levels. All of these factors fluctuate and may contribute to price declines generally in the reinsurance industry. Argo Group cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or continue to deteriorate. Negative market conditions may impair our ability to underwrite insurance and reinsurance at rates that Argo Group considers appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If Argo Group cannot underwrite insurance or reinsurance at appropriate rates, its ability to transact business would be materially and adversely affected. Any of these factors could lead to an adverse effect on Argo Group’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive environment and no assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in this environment. We compete with numerous companies that provide property-based lines of insurance and reinsurance. Although we employ an experienced management team, have a strong capital position, and have a financial strength rating of “A” rating from A.M. Best, no assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully in the insurance and/or reinsurance market. Increased competition in these markets could result in a change in the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance, our ability to price our products at attractive rates and retain existing business, or write new business on favorable terms. If this increased competition so limits our ability to transact business, our operating results could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Argo Group’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries have exposure to unpredictable and unexpected industry practices, catastrophes, and terrorist acts that can materially and adversely affect its business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Emerging Claims. Changes in industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions may have an unexpected adverse impact on claims and coverage issues. These issues may adversely affect Argo Group’s business such as extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or increasing the number or size of expected claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected were issued. As a result, the full extent of liability under Argo Group’s insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after contracts are issued, and the Company’s financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected in such future periods. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claims and coverage issues are inherently difficult to predict. Catastrophic Losses. Argo Group is subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on its business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including tornadoes, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, power outages, severe winter weather, fires and intentional man-made events, such as terrorist attacks. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for catastrophes until such event takes place. Therefore, although Argo Group will actively manage its exposure to catastrophes through its underwriting process and the purchase of reinsurance protection, an especially severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could exceed its reinsurance protection and may have a material adverse impact on Argo Group’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Also, it is possible that a series of catastrophic events could occur with unusual frequency in a given period which, although individually not severe enough to reach the attachment point of reinsurance protection, in the aggregate could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Further, as a reinsurer of property catastrophe-type coverage in the worldwide marketplace, Argo Re’s operating results in any given period will depend to some extent on the number and magnitude of such natural and man-made catastrophes. While Argo Re may, depending on market conditions, purchase catastrophe retrocessional coverage for its own protection, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in any given period could nevertheless have a material adverse impact on Argo Re’s operating results and/or financial condition. This could, in turn, result in a material adverse impact on Argo Group’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Terrorism. Argo Group may also have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism. Even if reinsurers are able to exclude coverage for terrorist acts or price that coverage at rates that Argo Group considers unattractive, direct insurers, like Argo Group’s primary insurance company subsidiaries, might not be able to likewise exclude terrorist acts because of regulatory constraints. If this does occur, Argo Group, in its capacity as a primary insurer, would have a significant gap in its reinsurance protection and would be exposed to potential losses as a result of any terrorist acts. These events are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict occurrence of such events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss per occurrence they will generate. If there is a future terrorist attack, the possibility remains that losses resulting from such event could prove to be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist acts may also cause multiple claims, and there is no assurance that our attempts to limit our liability through contractual policy provisions will be effective. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 was signed into law by the U.S. President on December 26, 2007. This law renews the prior federal terrorism risk insurance program through December 31, 2014. The program includes protections for acts of domestic terrorism. The insurer deductible is fixed at 20% of an insurer’s direct earned premium, and the federal share of compensation is fixed at 85% of insured losses that exceed insurer deductibles. The U.S. Treasury Department is required to promulgate regulations to determine the pro-rata share of insured losses if they exceed the $100 billion cap. In addition, clear and conspicuous notice to policyholders of the $100 billion cap is required. Under the program reauthorization, the trigger at which federal compensation becomes available remains fixed at $100 million per year through 2014. Global climate change may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Although uncertainty remains as to the nature and effect of greenhouse gas emissions, we could suffer losses if global climate change results in an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. As with traditional natural disasters, claims arising from these incidents could increase our exposure to losses and have a material adverse impact on Argo Group’s business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Because our business is dependent upon insurance and reinsurance agents and brokers, we are exposed to certain risks that could cause our results to be aversely affected. Argo Group markets and distributes some of our insurance products through a select group of wholesale agents who have limited quoting and binding authority and who, in turn, sell our insurance products to insureds through retail insurance brokers. These agencies can bind certain risks that meet our pre-established guidelines without our initial approval. If these agents failed to comply with our underwriting guidelines and the terms of their appointment, we could be bound on a particular risk or number of risks that were not anticipated when we developed the insurance products. Such actions could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, in any given period we may derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of agents and brokers and the loss of any of these relationships could have a significant impact on our ability to market our products and services. In accordance with industry practice, we may pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers who in turn remit these amounts to our insureds or reinsureds. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of each particular case, in some jurisdictions, if an agent or broker fails to remit funds delivered for the payment of claims, we may remain liable to our insured or reinsured ceding insurer for the deficiency. Likewise, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or reinsured pays the remitting funds to our agent or broker in full, our premiums are considered to have been paid in full, notwithstanding that we may or may not have actually received the premiums from the agent or broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with certain agents and brokers with whom we transact business. Argo Group may incur income statement charges (or benefits) if the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses are insufficient (or redundant). Such income statement charges (or benefits) could be material, individually or in the aggregate, to the Company’s financial condition and operating results in future periods and could result in rating agency actions and/or the need to raise capital. General Loss Reserves. Argo Group maintains reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses to cover estimated ultimate unpaid liabilities with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each balance sheet date. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent management’s best estimates, which take into account various statistical and actuarial projection techniques as well as other influencing factors. These reserve estimates represent management’s expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on an assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, changing legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of an insured event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer, which can be of particular concern in two of our markets, reinsurance and excess. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled, and as a consequence, management’s estimates may change from time to time. Because establishment of the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, currently established reserves may be insufficient (or redundant) or estimates of ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses may increase (or decrease). Asbestos and Environmental Liability Loss Reserves. The Company has received asbestos and environmental liability claims arising out of other liability coverage primarily written in the 1960s, 1970s and into the mid-1980s. Argo Group has a specialized claims unit that investigates and adjusts asbestos and environmental claims. Beginning in 1986, nearly all standard liability policies contained an express exclusion for asbestos and environmental related claims. All policies currently being issued by Argo Group’s insurance subsidiaries contain this exclusion. In addition to the previously described general uncertainties encountered in estimating reserves, there are significant additional uncertainties in estimating the amount of Argo Group’s potential losses from asbestos and environmental claims. Reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be estimated with traditional loss reserving techniques that rely on historical accident year development factors due to the uncertainties surrounding these types of claims. Among the uncertainties impacting the estimation of such losses are: • potentially long waiting periods between exposure and emergence of any bodily injury or property damage; 19 Table of Contents • difficulty in identifying sources of environmental or asbestos contamination; • difficulty in properly allocating responsibility and/or liability for environmental or asbestos damage; • changes in underlying laws and judicial interpretation of those laws; • potential for an environmental or asbestos claim to involve many insurance providers over many policy periods; • long reporting delays from insureds to insurance companies; • historical data concerning asbestos and environmental losses, which is more limited than historical information on other types of claims; • questions concerning interpretation and application of insurance coverage; and • uncertainty regarding the number and identity of insureds with potential asbestos or environmental exposure. Argo Group’s management believes that these factors continue to render traditional actuarial methods less effective at estimating reserves for asbestos and environmental losses than reserves on other types of losses. Argo Group establishes reserves to the extent that, in the judgment of its management, the facts and prevailing law reflect an exposure for Argo Group not dissimilar to those results the industry has experienced with regard to asbestos and environmental related claims. The Company has annually reviewed its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves for its run-off lines of business, including its asbestos and environmental claims. The review entails a detailed analysis of its direct and assumed exposure. Argo Group will continue to monitor industry trends and its own experience in order to determine the adequacy of its environmental and asbestos reserves. Black Lung Disease Loss Reserves. Through Argo Group’s subsidiary Rockwood, Argo Group has exposure to claims for black lung disease. Those diagnosed with black lung disease are eligible to receive workers compensation benefits from various US federal and state programs. These programs are continually being reviewed by the governing bodies and may be revised without notice in such a way as to increase the level of Argo Group’s exposure. Argo Group’s subsidiary, Colony, also currently underwrites environmental and pollution coverages (on a limited number of policies) for underground storage tanks. Because of all of the above, estimates of ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses may increase in the future. Income statement charges that would result from such increases, if any, cannot now be reasonably estimated. Such charges could be material, individually or in the aggregate, to Argo Group’s future operating results and financial condition and could result in rating agency actions and/or the need to raise capital. The Company can provide no assurances such capital will be available. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which the estimates are changed. Additional information relating to the Company’s reserves for losses and loss adjustment expense is included under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 39 - 70 and Note 6 “Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Argo Re’s inability to provide the necessary collateral could affect Argo Re’s ability to offer reinsurance in certain markets. Argo Re is not licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. Because many jurisdictions do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers in statutory financial statements unless appropriate security is in place, Argo Re anticipates that its reinsurance clients will typically require it to post a letter of credit or other collateral. If Argo Re is unable to arrange for security on commercially reasonable terms, Argo Re could be limited in its ability to underwrite business for certain of its clients. Argo Group faces a risk of non-availability of reinsurance, which could materially and adversely affect its business, results of operations and/or financial condition. As is common practice within the insurance industry, Argo Group transfers a portion of the risks insured under its policies to other companies through the purchase of reinsurance. This reinsurance is maintained to protect the insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries against the severity of losses on individual claims, unusually serious occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary loss and catastrophic events. Although reinsurance does not discharge Argo Group’s subsidiaries from their primary obligation to pay for losses insured under the policies they issue, reinsurance does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk. A credit exposure exists with respect to ceded losses to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet the obligations assumed under the reinsurance contracts. The collectability of reinsurance is subject to the solvency of the reinsurers, interpretation and application of contract language and other factors. Argo Group is selective in regard to its reinsurers, placing reinsurance with those reinsurers with strong financial strength ratings from A.M. Best, S&P, or a combination thereof, although the financial condition of a reinsurer may change based on market conditions. Argo Group performs credit reviews on its reinsurers, focusing on, among other things, financial condition, stability, trends and commitment to the reinsurance business. Argo Group also requires assets in trust, letters of credit or other acceptable collateral to support balances due from reinsurers not authorized to transact business in the applicable jurisdictions. It has not always been standard business practice to require security for balances due; therefore, certain balances are not collateralized. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will not experience a ratings downgrade, which may result in an adverse effect on Argo Group’s business, financial condition and operating results. Ratings with respect to claims paying ability and financial strength are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and will also impact the cost and availability of capital to an insurance company. Ratings by A.M. Best and S&P represent an important consideration in maintaining customer confidence in Argo Group and in its ability to market insurance products. Rating organizations regularly analyze the financial performance and condition of insurers. All of Argo Group’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries have a Financial Strength Rating of “A (Excellent)” (3rd highest rating out of 16 rating classifications) with a stable outlook from A.M Best. S&P has assigned a Financial Strength Rating of “A- (Strong)” to Argo Group’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Argo Group US has an Issuer Credit Rating of “BBB- (Good)” with a stable outlook from S&P. Argo Group’s ratings are subject to periodic review by those entities and the continuation of those ratings cannot be assured. A significant downgrade in these ratings could affect Argo Group’s competitive position in the insurance industry, make it more difficult for Argo Group to market its products and result in a material loss of business as policyholders move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings. Risks Related to Regulatory Constraints Regulatory constraints may restrict Argo Group’s ability to operate its business. General Regulatory Constraints Restrictions on Ownership. Argo Group’s ownership of U.S. subsidiaries can, under applicable state insurance company laws and regulations, delay or impede a change of control of Argo Group. Under applicable insurance regulations, any proposed purchase of 10% or more of the voting securities of Argo Group would require the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulatory authorities. Except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, for so long as the shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as determined under section 958 of the Code) of any U.S. Person (that owns shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by Argo Group’s issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person, which we refer to as a 9.5% U.S. Shareholder, will be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5% under a formula specified in Argo Group’s bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, the board of Argo Group may limit a shareholder’s voting rights where it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder; and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to Argo Group, any subsidiary of Argo Group or any direct or indirect shareholder or its affiliates. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares of Argo Group that such U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). 21 Table of Contents Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Regulation of Subsidiaries General. Argo Group’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries and insurance-related services subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, Argo Group may not be able to comply with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or insurance-related services companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on Argo Group’s ability to do business or certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions and could subject Argo Group to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s business. Argo Group’s U.S. Subsidiaries. Argo Group’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation which may reduce our profitability or inhibit our growth. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Finally, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The U.S. insurance industry is highly regulated and supervised. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of each of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they do business. Such supervision and regulation is designed to protect our policyholders rather than our shareholders. These regulations are generally administered by a department of insurance in each state and relate to various aspects of our business. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance and reinsurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny, suspend or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes have been proposed in the U.S. insurance industry, some of which could have an effect on reinsurers and insurers. Among the proposals that have in the past been or are at present being considered are the possible introduction of federal regulation in addition to, or in lieu of, the current system of state regulation of insurers, an initiative to create a federally guaranteed disaster reinsurance pool pre-funded by insurers and proposals in various state legislatures (some of which have been enacted) to conform portions of their insurance laws and regulations to various model acts adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Also currently being considered is a bill to improve and streamline the regulation of non-admitted insurance and reinsurance. The Company is unable to predict what effect, if any, the foregoing developments may have on its operations and financial condition in the future. Argo Group’s Bermuda Subsidiary. Argo Re is registered as a Class 4 Bermuda insurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Changes in Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and the policies of the BMA could result in restrictions on Argo Re’s ability to pursue its business plans, issue reinsurance policies, distribute funds and execute its investment strategy. U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) Regulations. Argo International (formerly known as Heritage Underwriting Agency plc) operations are regulated by the FSA and franchised by Lloyd’s. The FSA has substantial powers of intervention in relation to the Lloyd’s managing agents (such as Argo International) which it regulates, including the power to remove their authorization to manage Lloyd’s syndicates. In addition, each year the FSA requires Lloyd’s to satisfy an annual solvency test that measures whether Lloyd’s has sufficient assets in the aggregate to meet all outstanding liabilities of its members, both current and run-off. If Lloyd’s fails this test, the FSA may require Lloyd’s to cease trading and/or its members to cease or reduce underwriting. Future regulatory changes or rulings by the FSA could interfere with Argo International’s business strategy or financial assumptions, possibly resulting in an adverse effect on Argo International’s financial condition and operating results. 22 Table of Contents Lloyd’s of London Regulations and Requirements. Argo International’s operations are franchised by Lloyd’s. The Lloyd’s Franchise Board requires annual approval of Argo International’s business plan, including maximum underwriting capacity, and may require changes to any business plan presented to it or additional capital to be provided to support underwriting. Lloyd’s also imposes various charges and assessments on its member companies. If Lloyd’s required material changes in Argo International’s business plans, or if charges and assessments payable by Argo International to Lloyd’s were to increase significantly, these events could have an adverse effect on the operations and financial results of Argo International. In addition, no assurances can be given as to how much business Lloyd’s will permit Argo International to underwrite in 2010 and subsequent years nor as to the viability and cost of the capital structure we may use as a substitute for the external capital and reinsurance used by Argo International in 2009 and prior underwriting years. The financial security of the Lloyd’s market is regularly assessed by three independent rating agencies (A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings). A satisfactory credit rating issued by an accredited rating agency is necessary for Lloyd’s syndicates to be able to trade in certain classes of business at current levels. Argo International would be adversely affected if Lloyd’s current ratings were downgraded. Other Applicable Laws. Lloyd’s worldwide insurance and reinsurance business is subject to various regulations, laws, treaties and other applicable policies of the European Union, as well as each nation, state and locality in which it operates. Material changes in governmental requirements and laws could have an adverse affect on Lloyd’s and its member companies, including Argo International. Argo Group is a holding company and if its subsidiaries do not make dividend payments to Argo Group, Argo Group may not be able to pay dividends or other obligations. Argo Group is a holding company with no significant operations or significant assets other than the share capital of its subsidiaries. Argo Group relies primarily on cash dividends from its subsidiaries to pay its operating expenses and obligations. Argo Group expects future distributions from these subsidiaries to be its principal source of funds to pay expenses and dividends. The payment of dividends by Argo Group’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries is limited under Bermuda law, Irish law and under the Illinois, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Louisiana insurance laws, which are the states of domicile for Argonaut Insurance Company, Colony Insurance Company and Rockwood Casualty Insurance Company, Argo Group US’s directly owned insurance subsidiaries. These states regulate the maximum amount of annual dividends or other distributions available to shareholders without prior approval of the state regulatory authorities. Bermuda insurance laws require Argo Re to maintain certain measures of solvency and liquidity, and further limit the amount by which we can reduce surplus without prior regulatory approval. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Argo Group may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees and key executives. We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees and key executives who are knowledgeable about our business. If the quality of our underwriting team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate and be unable to expand our operations into new markets, which could adversely affect our results. Argo Group is domiciled in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, with some limited exceptions, may not engage in any occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. The Bermuda government will issue a work permit for a specific period of time, which may be extended upon showing that, after proper public advertisements, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent resident certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards for the advertised position. The Bermuda government has a policy that limits the duration of these work permits to six years, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. A substantial number of Argo Group’s Bermuda based employees are employed pursuant to these work permits granted by Bermuda authorities. If the Bermuda government refuses to extend the work permits of key Argo Group employees, our operations could be disrupted and our financial performance could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Litigation and legal proceedings against Argo Group could have an adverse effect on Argo Group’s financial condition. Between May 3, 2006 and June 16, 2006, several class action lawsuits were filed against PXRE Group Ltd. (now Argo Group) and certain former officers of PXRE on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs consisting of investors who purchased PXRE securities traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “PXT” between September 11, 2005 and February 22, 2006. These lawsuits were consolidated into one proceeding before the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and were the subject of an Amended Class Action Complaint filed on June 15, 2007 (the “Amended Complaint”). The Amended Complaint alleges that during the purported class period PXRE fraudulently understated the full impact of hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma on PXRE’s business and that certain PXRE executives made a series of materially false and misleading statements or omissions about PXRE’s business, prospects and operations in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “1934 Act”), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated under the 1934 Act. On March 4, 2009, the Amended Complaint was dismissed with prejudice by the District Court. On December 21, 2009 the District Court’s decision was affirmed on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the class plaintiff’s petition for rehearing was denied by the Court of Appeals on January 11, 2010. On December 4, 2008, a lawsuit was filed against PXRE., Argo Group and certain of PXRE’s former officers in United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging causes of action based on facts and circumstances on behalf of a group of institutional shareholders that purchased Series D Perpetual Non-voting Preferred Shares of PXRE pursuant to the Private Placement Memorandum dated on or about September 28, 2005, (the “Private Placement”). The lawsuit alleges that the Private Placement was a public offering and that the Private Placement Memorandum contained false and misleading statements or omissions concerning PXRE’s business, prospects and operations actionable under Section 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, the lawsuit alleges claims under New York state law for negligent misrepresentation and common law fraud based upon, among other things, statements contained in the Private Placement Memorandum and alleged false and misleading statements by PXRE’s named former officers. On April 6, 2009, the institutional investors filed an amended complaint. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on May 6, 2009. On January 26, 2010 the District Court granted the Company’s motion, dismissing the plaintiffs’ federal law causes of action without prejudice, and holding that the amended complaint failed to allege facts that would show that the Private Placement could be construed to be a public offering or that the Private Placement should be integrated with PXRE’s public share offering. The Court’s order provided the plaintiffs with a deadline of February 22, 2010 to file amended pleadings setting forth the nature of the entities to which the Private Placement was offered. Based on the dismissal of the federal law claims, the Court’s order also dismissed without prejudice all state law claims asserted by the plaintiffs for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, without prejudice to the plaintiffs’ right to file a separate action in state court asserting such claims. On February 22, 2010 the plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint in the District Court case seeking to overcome the deficiencies outlined in the order of dismissal. The Company does not believe that the Second Amended Complaint is sufficient to comply with the relevant legal standard, and plans to file a Motion to Dismiss accordingly. Although the Company has received no notice of any other potential lawsuits or other proceedings relating to the alleged facts and circumstances described above, it is possible that the Company could be the subject of additional litigation or regulatory inquiries regarding such matters in the future. At this stage, the Company is unable to determine with any reasonable certainty the specific claims, litigants, or alleged damages that ultimately may be associated with the pending securities litigation, Private Placement lawsuit or any other future proceedings regarding the alleged facts and circumstances described above, nor can the Company currently predict the timing of any rulings, trials or other significant events relating to such proceedings. Given these limitations and the inherent difficulty of projecting the outcome of litigated disputes, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss, range of loss or legal costs that are likely to arise out of the pending securities litigation or any future proceedings relating to the above matters at this time. The Company has insurance protection that may cover a portion of any potential loss or legal costs, but a settlement above the coverage limits could impact the Company’s financial position. Based on all information available to the Company at this time, management of the Company believes that PXRE’s reserving practices, financial disclosures, public filings and securities offerings in the aftermath of the 2005 hurricanes complied fully with all applicable regulatory and legal requirements. However, if unfavorable outcomes in the class action litigation or Private Placement lawsuit were to occur and result in the payment of substantial damages or fines or criminal penalties, these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flows, results of operations, financial position and prospects. 24 Table of Contents The subsidiaries of the Company are parties to other legal actions incidental to their business. Based on the advice of counsel, management of the Company believes that the resolution of these matters will not materially affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Argo Group’s merger and acquisition strategy may not succeed. Argo Group’s strategy for growth may include merger and acquisition transactions. This strategy presents risks that could have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s business and financial performance, including: (i) the diversion of management’s attention, (ii) the ability of Argo Group to execute a transaction effectively, including the integration of operations and the retention of employees, and (iii) the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of and other unanticipated problems arising from a transaction partner. Argo Group cannot predict whether it will be able to identify and complete a future transaction on terms favorable to it. Argo Group cannot know if it will realize the anticipated benefits of a completed transaction or if there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with the transaction. Specifically, we acquired Argo International in May 2008 and there can be no assurance that we will fully realize the expected benefits of this acquisition. The Company has recorded goodwill and intangible assets related to the acquisition of Argo International based on assumptions of anticipated benefits. These assets may become impaired if anticipated benefits are not achieved, resulting in a corresponding impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the Argo International acquisition, a future transaction within the Argo Group merger and acquisition strategy may result in tax consequences at either or both the shareholder and Argo Group level, potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and the recognition of potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Each of these factors could adversely affect Argo Group’s financial position and results of operations. Argo Group’s internal controls may fail and have an adverse effect on our business. We utilize a number of strategies to mitigate our risk exposure including: • engaging in vigorous underwriting within certain defined risk parameters and subject to various levels of oversight by experienced underwriting professionals; • carefully evaluating terms and conditions of our policies; • focusing on our risk aggregations by geographic zones, industry type, credit exposure and other bases; and • ceding insurance risk to reinsurance companies. However, there are inherent limitations in all of these strategies. No assurance can be given that an unanticipated event or series of such events will not result in loss levels that could have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s financial condition or results of operations. We continually enhance our operating procedures and internal controls to effectively support our business and our regulatory and financial reporting requirements. As a result of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control objectives have been or will be met, and that instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. As a result of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatement due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Accordingly, our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the disclosure controls and procedures are met; our management does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal controls will prevent all errors or fraud. Further, Argo Group’s business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our computer and data processing systems. We rely on these systems to perform accounting, policy administration, actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for writing business, as well as to process and make claims and other payments. We have a highly trained staff that is committed to the development and maintenance of these systems. The failure of these systems could interrupt our operations. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business results. 25 Table of Contents In addition, a security breach of our computer systems could damage our reputation or result in liability. We retain confidential information regarding our business dealings in our computer systems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. It is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hackers were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate confidential information. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and shareholders’ equity. Goodwill and intangible assets are originally recorded at fair value. Goodwill is not amortized while certain intangible assets are amortized over estimated useful lives or have indefinite useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if indicators are present. Management, in evaluating the recoverability of such assets, relies on estimates and assumptions related to margin, growth rates, discount rates and other data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges can result from declines in operating results, divestitures or sustained market capitalization declines and other factors. Impairment charges could materially affect our financial results in the period in which they are recognized. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill and intangible assets represented approximately 15.4% of shareholders’ equity. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Some aspects of Argo Group’s corporate structure and applicable insurance regulations may discourage or impede sale of the company, tender offers, or other mechanisms of control. Restrictions on Stock Transfers. Argo Group’s bye-laws generally permit transfers of Argo Group common shares unless the board of directors determines a transfer may result in a non-de minims adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequence to Argo Group, any Argo Group subsidiary or any direct or indirect shareholder of Argo Group or its affiliates. Argo Group may refuse to register on its share transfer records any transfer that does not comply with these share transfer restrictions. A transferee will be permitted to promptly dispose of any Argo Group shares purchased that violate the restrictions and as to the transfer of which registration is refused. Restrictions on Voting Rights. In the event that Argo Group becomes aware of a U.S. Person (that owns Argo Group shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) owning more than the permitted 9.5% level of voting power of the outstanding shares of Argo Group after a transfer of shares has been registered, Argo Group’s bye-laws provide that, subject to certain exceptions and waiver procedures, the voting rights with respect to the shares of Argo Group owned by any such shareholder will be limited to the permitted level of voting power, subject only to the further limitation that no other shareholder allocated any such voting rights may exceed the permitted level of voting power as a result of such limitation. Argo Group also has the authority under its bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to such a request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to such a request, Argo Group may, in its sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder’s voting rights. Election of Board of Directors. Argo Group’s bye-laws provide for a classified board of directors. The directors of the class elected at each annual general meeting hold office for a term of three years, with the term of each class expiring at successive annual general meetings of shareholders. Under Argo Group’s bye-laws, the vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote and the approval of a majority of the board are required to amend bye-laws regarding appointment and removal of directors, indemnification of directors and officers, directors’ interests and the procedures for amending bye-laws. Restrictions on Third Party Takeovers. The provisions described above may have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. To the extent that these effects occur, shareholders could be deprived of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares and the market price of their shares could be depressed. In addition, these provisions could also result in the entrenchment of incumbent management. 26 Table of Contents Argo Group is a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against it and/or its directors and executive officers. Argo Group is organized under the laws of Bermuda and its business is based in Bermuda. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which applies to Argo Group, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, the company’s right to enter into business transactions with shareholders without prior approval from shareholders, committee organization and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. In addition, certain of Argo Group’s directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of Argo Group’s assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Argo Group has been advised that there is doubt as to whether: • a holder of Argo Group’s common shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of United States courts against persons who reside in Bermuda based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws; • a holder of Argo Group’s common shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws; and • a holder of Argo Group’s common shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against Argo Group or Argo Group’s directors or officers, as well as Argo Group’s independent accountants, who reside outside the United States based solely upon United States federal securities laws. Further, Argo Group has been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of United States courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Because judgments of United States courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for Argo Group’s shareholders to recover against Argo Group based on such judgments. Risks Related to Economic Uncertainties We may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including inflation and changes in interest rates. The effects of inflation could cause the cost of claims to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Additionally, our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. As discussed in greater detail below, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by inflation or changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. and other major economies, inflation, economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in changing interest rate environments, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Despite our mitigation efforts, an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. A prolonged recession or a prolonged period of recovery characterized by a highly competitive environment for pricing terms and conditions, including as a result of significant turmoil in the U.S. and international financial markets, could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial conditions, and our share price. U.S. and international financial market disruptions such as the ones experienced in the recent global financial crisis, along with the possibility of a prolonged recession, may potentially affect various aspects of our business, including the demand for and claims made under our products, our counterparty credit risk and the ability of our customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. Volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may also adversely affect our share price. Depending on future market conditions, we could incur substantial additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, debt and financial strength ratings, insurance subsidiaries’ capital and ability to access capital markets. 27 Table of Contents Argo Group’s investment portfolio is subject to significant market and credit risks which could result in an adverse impact on Argo Group’s financial position or results. Argo Group holds a diversified portfolio of investments. These investments are managed in accordance with our investment policy by professional investment management firms, under the direction of our investment committee and the Chief Investment Officer. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal, and liquidity, our investments are subject to general economic conditions and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities. During an economic downturn, our investment portfolio could be subject to higher risk. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio is also subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. The valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Additionally, Argo Group’s portfolio of investments in fixed income and short-term securities may be adversely affected by changes in inflation and/or interest rates which, in turn, may adversely affect operating results. The fair market value and investment income of these assets fluctuate with general economic and market conditions. Generally, the fair market value of fixed income securities decreases as interest rates increase. Some fixed income securities have call or prepayment options, which represent possible reinvestment risk in declining rate environments. Other fixed income securities such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities carry prepayment risk. The Company’s investment portfolio includes $21.9 million, less than 1% of our portfolio, of mortgage-backed securities collateralized by sub prime residential loans. These securities were issued over several years from 2001 through 2006. The Company’s exposure to unrealized losses on securities with sub prime exposure has been predominantly related to changes in the security values. The Company and its investment managers closely monitor the performance of sub prime assets, using statistics provided by data vendors as well as information provided directly by trustee remittance reports. These data reference points include, but are not limited to delinquencies, foreclosures, accumulated loss, and credit support, which are used to determine the potential for losses or marginal risk. The Company has never purchased collateralized debt obligations or mortgage derivatives. Since the beginning of the recent global financial crisis, delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase, particularly in the sub prime sector. In addition, in recent months residential property values in many states have declined or remained stable, after extended periods during which those values appreciated. A continued decline or an extended flattening in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investment properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. These developments may have a significant adverse effect on the prices of loans and securities, including those in our investment portfolio. The situation continues to have wide ranging consequences, including downward pressure on economic growth and the potential for increased insurance and reinsurance exposures, which could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations. Argo Group also invests in marketable equity securities. These securities are carried on the balance sheet at fair market value and are subject to potential losses and declines in market value. Argo Group’s invested assets also include hedge funds, equity limited partnerships, and other privately held securities. These investments were designed to provide diversification of risk and enhance the return on the overall portfolio. However, such investments entail substantial risks. 28 Table of Contents Risks for all types of securities are managed through application of the investment policy, which establishes investment parameters that include – but are not limited to – maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities, minimum levels of credit quality, and Option-Adjusted Duration guidelines. No issuer (excluding United States Government and United States Governmental agencies) of fixed income or equity securities represents more than 4.1% of shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2009. Although Argo Group seeks to preserve its capital, there can be no assurance that Argo Group’s investment objectives will be achieved, and results may vary substantially over time. In addition, although Argo Group seeks to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with its insurance and reinsurance exposures, losses in Argo Group’s investment portfolio may occur at the same time as underwriting losses and, therefore, exacerbate such losses’ adverse effect on Argo Group. Argo Group may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Although Argo Group foreign subsidiaries’ functional currency is the U.S. Dollar, certain premium receivables and loss reserves include business denominated in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. With the acquisition of Argo International, foreign currency exposure has increased. Argo Group is exposed to the possibility of significant claims in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. We may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in these non-U.S. currencies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to Taxation Risks Associated with Taxation of the Company U.S. Tax Risks Argo Group and Argo Group’s non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s financial condition and operating results. Argo Group and Argo Group’s non-U.S. subsidiaries have operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner that should not cause them to be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States (and, in the case of those non-U.S. companies qualifying for treaty protection, in a manner that should not cause any of such non-U.S. subsidiaries to be doing business through a permanent establishment in the United States) and, thus, Argo Group believes that it and its non-U.S. subsidiaries should not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes or branch profits tax (other than withholding taxes on certain U.S. source investment income and excise taxes on insurance or reinsurance premiums). However, because there is uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, and what constitutes a permanent establishment under the applicable tax treaties, there can be no assurances that the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend successfully that one of the non-U.S. subsidiaries is engaged in a trade or business, or carrying on business through a permanent establishment, in the United States. The reinsurance agreements between Argo Group and Argo Group’s U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to recharacterization or other adjustment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s financial condition and operating results. Under Section 845 of the Code, the IRS may allocate income, deductions, assets, reserves, credits and any other items related to a reinsurance agreement among certain related parties to the reinsurance agreement, recharacterize such items, or make any other adjustment, in order to reflect the proper source, character or amount of the items for each party. No regulations have been issued under Section 845 of the Code. Accordingly, the application of such provisions is uncertain and Argo Group cannot predict what impact, if any, such provisions may have on it and its subsidiaries. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could be retroactive and may subject Argo Group or its non-U.S. subsidiaries to U.S. federal income taxation. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. There are currently pending legislative proposals which, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on Argo Group or its shareholders. For example, legislation has been introduced in Congress to limit the deductibility of reinsurance premiums paid by U. S. companies to foreign affiliates that, if enacted, could adversely impact our results. It is possible that broader-based or new legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse effect on Argo Group or its shareholders. 29 Table of Contents The tax laws and interpretations thereof are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. Argo Group is not able to predict if, when or in what form such changes will be provided and whether such guidance will be applied on a retroactive basis. The Merger between PXRE and Argonaut may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences on Argo Group under certain circumstances. Section 7874 of the Code was added in 2004 by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 to address inversion transactions, which refer in relevant part to transactions where a U.S. corporation becomes a subsidiary of a foreign corporation. This provision provides that in certain instances a foreign corporation may be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because the former holders of Argonaut Group common stock did not own 80% or more of the stock (by vote or value) of Argo Group immediately after the Merger, Argo Group believes that neither Argo Group nor any of its non-U.S. affiliates should be treated as a domestic corporation subject to U.S. taxation under Section 7874 of the Code. Moreover, although the former holders of Argonaut Group common stock held more than 60% of the stock (by vote and value) of Argo Group immediately after the inversion transaction, Argo Group believes that it should not recognize current gain under Section 7874 of the Code or otherwise as a result of the Merger of Argonaut Group and PXRE. It is possible that, as a result of certain transfers or licenses of stock or other property, as the case may be, during the applicable period (including the transfer of any income received or accrued during the applicable period by reason of a license of any property by Argonaut Group), Argonaut Group could recognize inversion gain during the applicable period. However, Argo Group does not anticipate such transfers taking place and thus do not expect to recognize any inversion gain during the applicable period. Bermuda Tax Risks Argo Group and Argo Group’s Bermuda subsidiaries may become subject to Bermuda taxes after 2016. Bermuda currently imposes no income tax on corporations. Argo Group has obtained an assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Argo Group or Argo Group’s Bermuda subsidiaries, until March 28, 2016. Argo Group cannot assure you that Argo Group or its Bermuda subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and other multinational organizations are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce Argo Group’s net income. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of May 2009, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with not substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. U.K. Tax Risks Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies other than Argo International, which manages Syndicate 1200 at Lloyd’s, Argo Management Services, Ltd,, Argo Management Holdings, Ltd., Argo Managing Agency, Ltd. and Argo Direct, Ltd. should be resident in the U.K. for tax purposes or have a permanent establishment in the U.K. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than Argo International should be subject to U.K. taxation. However, since applicable law and regulations do not conclusively define the activities that constitute conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment, the U.K. Inland Revenue might contend successfully that one or more of our other companies is conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K. 30 Table of Contents Any arrangements between U.K.-resident entities of Argo Group and other members of Argo Group are subject to the U.K. transfer pricing regime. Consequently, if any agreement between a U.K.-resident entity of Argo Group and any other Argo Group entity (whether that entity is resident in or outside the U.K.) is found not to be on arm’s length terms and as a result a U.K. tax advantage is being obtained, an adjustment will be required to compute U.K. taxable profits as if such an agreement were on arm’s length terms. Any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the tax charge incurred by the relevant U.K.-resident entities of Argo Group. Irish Tax Risks Dividends paid by Argo Group’s U.S. subsidiaries to Argo Ireland may not be eligible for benefits under the U.S.-Ireland income tax treaty. Under U.S. federal income tax law, dividends paid by a U.S. corporation to a non-U.S. shareholder are generally subject to a 30% withholding tax, unless reduced by treaty. The income tax treaty between the Republic of Ireland and the United States (“the Irish Treaty”) reduces the rate of withholding tax on certain dividends to 5%. Were the IRS to contend successfully that Argo Ireland is not eligible for benefits under the Irish Treaty, any dividends paid by Argo Group’s U.S. subsidiaries to Argo Ireland would be subject to the 30% withholding tax. Such a result could have a material adverse effect on Argo Group’s financial condition and operating results. Risks Associated with Our Shareholders If you are a U.S. non-corporate shareholder, dividends you receive from Argo Group will not be eligible for reduced rates of tax upon enactment of certain legislative proposals or after 2010 if legislation is not enacted extending the “qualified dividend” income provisions. Dividends are generally considered to be ordinary income subject, in the case of individuals, to rates of tax up to 35%. However, dividends paid by a qualified foreign corporation, such as Argo Group, to U.S. non-corporate holders of its common shares, are eligible for reduced rates of taxation (based on the long-term capital gain rates) up to a maximum of 15%. The application of these reduced rates is, however, set to expire in 2011. Argo Group, therefore, cannot assure you that any dividends paid by Argo Group after 2010 would continue to qualify for reduced rates of tax. Moreover, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress that would, if enacted, deny the applicability of reduced rates to dividends paid by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country that does not have a comprehensive income tax system, such as Bermuda. It is possible that this legislative proposal could become law before 2011 or that it could apply retroactively. Therefore, depending on whether, when and in what form this legislative proposal is enacted, Argo Group cannot assure you that any dividends paid by Argo Group in the future would qualify for reduced rates of tax. If Argo Group is classified as a passive foreign investment company, which we refer to as a PFIC, your taxes would increase. In order to avoid significant potential adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for any U.S. person who owns our common shares, we must not constitute a passive foreign investment company in any year in which such U.S. person is a shareholder. Those consequences could include increasing the tax liability of the investor, accelerating the imposition of the tax and causing a loss of the basis step-up on the death of the investor. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a passive foreign investment company for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes passive income or 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. However, passive income does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a company that is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Argo Group believes that it should not be, and currently does not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, Argo Group cannot assure you that it will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS based, in part, on Argo Group’s recent limited operations. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. Argo Group cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on persons subject to U.S. federal income tax that directly or indirectly own Argo Group’s shares. 31 Table of Contents If you acquire 10% or more of Argo Group’s shares and Argo Group or one or more of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is classified as a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) your taxes could increase. Each U.S. person who, directly, indirectly, or through attribution rules, owns 10% or more of our common shares should consider the possible application of the controlled foreign corporation rules. Each U.S. 10% shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation on the last day of the controlled foreign corporation’s taxable year generally must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of the controlled foreign corporation’s subpart F income, even if the subpart F income has not been distributed. In general, a non-U.S. insurance company is treated as a controlled foreign corporation only if such U.S. 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the company’s capital stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. We believe that, because of the anticipated dispersion of share ownership among holders and because of the restrictions in our bye-laws on transfer, issuance or repurchase of our common shares, shareholders will not be subject to treatment as U.S. 10% shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation. In addition, because under our bye-laws no single shareholder is permitted to exercise 9.5% or more of the total combined voting power, unless such provision is waived by the unanimous consent of the board of directors, we believe that our shareholders should not be viewed as U.S. 10% shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation for purposes of the controlled foreign corporation rules. We cannot assure shareholders, however, that these rules will not apply to our shareholders. Argo Group cannot assure you that Argo Group or its non-U.S. subsidiaries will not be classified as CFCs. Argo Group believes that because of the anticipated dispersion of its common share ownership, provisions in Argo Group’s organizational documents that limit voting power and other factors, no United States person who (i) owns Argo Group’s shares directly or indirectly through one or more non-U.S. entities and (ii) has not received a waiver from Argo Group’s board of directors of provisions in Argo Group’s organizational documents that limit voting power, should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of the shares of Argo Group or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. Due to the attribution provisions of the Code regarding determination of beneficial ownership, there is a risk that the IRS could assert that Argo Group or one or more of its non-U.S. subsidiaries are CFCs and that U.S. holders of Argo Group’s shares who own 10% or more of the value of Argo Group’s shares should be treated as owning 10% or more of the total voting power of Argo Group, and/or its non-U.S. subsidiaries, notwithstanding the reduction of voting power discussed above. If one or more of Argo Group’s non-U.S. subsidiaries is determined to have related person insurance income (“RPII”), you may be subject to U.S. taxation on your pro rata share of such income. If the RPII of any of Argo Group’s non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of such company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own, directly or indirectly through entities, 20% or more of Argo Group’s voting power or value, then a U.S. person who owns Argo Group’s shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by the non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of common shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by the non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Argo Group believes that the gross RPII of each non-U.S. insurance subsidiary did not in prior years of operation and is not expected in the foreseeable future to equal or exceed 20% of such subsidiary’s gross insurance income. Additionally, Argo Group does not expect the direct or indirect insureds of its non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries (and persons related to such insureds) to directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of its shares. No assurance can be given that this will be the case because some of the factors that determine the existence or extent of RPII may be beyond Argo Group’s knowledge and/or control. 32 Table of Contents The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the U.S. person’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. person owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such U.S. person will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the U.S. person. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of Argo Group’s shares because Argo Group will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of RPII by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application of those provisions to Argo Group and its non-U.S. subsidiaries are uncertain. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own Argo Group’s shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of Argo Group’s insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, insurance income will be allocated to a U.S. tax-exempt organization if either Argo Group is a CFC and the tax-exempt shareholder is a 10% U.S. Shareholder or there is RPII and certain exceptions do not apply. Although Argo Group does not believe that any U.S. persons should be allocated such insurance income, Argo Group cannot be certain that this will be the case. U.S. tax-exempt investors should consult their tax advisors as to the U.S. tax consequences of any allocation of Argo Group’s insurance income. The payment of the special cash dividend to Argonaut Group shareholders made in July 2007 could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to shareholders and to Argo Group under certain circumstances. Argo Group intends to take the position that the amount paid as the special cash dividend is treated as a distribution with respect to the Argonaut Group common stock, and not as consideration in the Merger. Although Argo Group believes its position with respect to the special cash dividend is correct, the IRS may take a contrary position, and to the extent the IRS were to prevail, the amount paid as the special cash dividend would be treated as additional cash received in connection with the Merger and not as a distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the special cash dividend were to be treated as Merger consideration, it is possible that the special cash dividend would be deemed to be paid from Argonaut Group to Argo Group, in which case a U.S. 30% withholding tax would be imposed on such payment. Risks Related to Capital Structure Argo Group’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements under their respective regulatory domiciles. The risk-based capital system is designed to measure whether the amount of available capital is adequate to support the inherent specific risks of each insurer. Risk-based capital is calculated annually. Authorities use the risk-based capital formula to identify insurance companies that may be undercapitalized and thus may require further regulatory attention. The formula prescribes a series of risk measurements to determine a minimum capital amount for an insurance company, based on the profile of the individual company. The ratio of a company’s actual policyholder surplus to its minimum capital requirements will determine whether any state regulatory action is required. Argo Group US. Argo Group U.S. is subject to the risk-based capital system outlined in the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act. This Act provides four levels of regulatory activity if the risk-based capital ratio yielded by the calculation falls below specified minimums. At each of four successively lower risk-based capital ratios specified by statute, increasing regulatory remedies become available, some of which are mandatory. The four levels are: (i) Company Action Level Event, (ii) Regulatory Action Level Event, (iii) Authorized Control Level Event, and (iv) Mandatory Control Level Event. As of December 31, 2009, all U.S. subsidiaries had risk-based capital ratios that exceed specified minimums. If we fall below the minimum acceptable risk-based capital level, we would be subject to additional regulation. 33 Table of Contents Argo International. Argo International is subject to the risk-based capital requirements under the Financial Services and Markets Act. Argo Re. Argo Re is subject to the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”), a risk-based capital system mandated by the Bermuda Insurance (Prudential Standards)(Class 4 Solvency Requirement) Order 2008. As a result of these and other requirements, we may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us on commercially favorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to underwrite new business and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds generated by insurance premiums received and sale proceeds and income from our investment portfolio are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover losses and loss expenses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. The current financial market crisis has created unprecedented uncertainty in the equity and credit markets and has affected our ability, and the ability of others within our industry, to raise additional capital in the public or private markets. Any future financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financing, dilution to our shareholders could result, and the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. Argo Group may incur significant additional indebtedness. Argo Group may seek to incur additional indebtedness either through the issuance of public or private debt or through bank or other financing. The funds raised by the incurrence of such additional indebtedness may be used to repay existing indebtedness of the parties, including amounts borrowed under Argo Group US’s credit facility, Argo Group’s outstanding subordinated debt and Argo Group’s floating rate loan stock, or for general corporate purposes of Argo Group, including additions to working capital, capital expenditures, investments in subsidiaries or acquisitions. This additional indebtedness, particularly if not used to repay existing indebtedness, could limit Argo Group’s financial and operating flexibility, including as a result of the need to dedicate a greater portion of its cash flows from operations to interest and principal payments. It may also be more difficult for Argo Group to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, limiting Argo Group’s ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities and making Argo Group more vulnerable to economic downturns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 