ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Potential investors are urged to read and consider the risk factors relating to an investment in XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. contained herein. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks as well as other information we include or incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties we have described are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also affect our business operations. You could lose money on your investment because we are in the early stages of generating revenues. Unless we generate significant revenues, we may not be able to operate our business and service our indebtedness and you could lose money on your investment. Our ability to generate revenues and ultimately to become profitable will depend upon several factors, including: • whether we can attract and retain enough subscribers to XM Radio; • our ability to maintain the costs of obtaining and retaining subscribers and programming; • whether we compete successfully; and • whether our XM Radio system continues to operate at an acceptable level. Our cumulative expenditures and losses have been significant and are expected to grow. As of December 31, 2005, we had incurred capital expenditures of $1.5 billion and cumulative net losses approximating $2.8 billion from our inception through December 31, 2005. We expect our cumulative net losses and cumulative negative cash flows to grow as we make payments under our various distribution and programming contracts, incur marketing and subscriber acquisition costs and make interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness. If we are unable ultimately to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable and have positive cash flow, you could lose money on your investment. Demand for our service may be insufficient for us to become profitable. Because we offer a relatively new service, we cannot estimate with any certainty whether consumer demand for our service will be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of subscribers at projected rates or the degree to which we will meet that demand. Among other things, continuing and increased consumer acceptance of XM Radio will depend upon: • whether we obtain, produce and market high quality programming consistent with consumers’ tastes; • the willingness of consumers, on a mass-market basis, to pay subscription fees to obtain radio service; • the cost and availability of XM radios; and • the marketing and pricing strategies that we employ and that are employed by our competitors. If demand for our service does not continue and increase as expected, we may not be able to generate enough revenues to generate positive cash flow or become profitable. Large payment obligations under our distribution agreement with General Motors and other agreements may prevent us from becoming profitable or from achieving profitability in a timely manner. We have significant payment obligations under our long-term distribution agreement with General Motors for the installation of XM radios in General Motors vehicles and the distribution of our service to the exclusion of other satellite radio services. These payment obligations, which could total several hundred million dollars over the life of the contract, may prevent us from becoming profitable. A significant portion of these payments are fixed in amount, and we must pay these amounts even if General Motors does not continue to meet or exceed performance targets in the contract. We also have significant payment obligations under other agreements, including $60 million per year under our agreement with Major League Baseball® (“MLB”) to become the Official Satellite Radio Network of Major League Baseball®. Other agreements that we enter into with third-party suppliers of programming or relating to program royalties could or likely would involve substantial costs to us. These payment obligations could significantly delay our becoming profitable. 20 Table of Contents We need to obtain rights to programming, which are expensive and could be more costly than anticipated. Third-party content is an important part of the marketing of the XM Radio service and obtaining third-party content can be expensive. We have a multi-year agreement with Major League Baseball® (“MLB”) to broadcast MLB games live nationwide, and to become the Official Satellite Radio provider of Major League Baseball®, for which we have paid or will pay $50 million for 2005 and $60 million per year thereafter through 2012, with $120 million to be deposited into escrow. We have many other agreements and must negotiate new agreements with third-party suppliers of programming. Such programming is expensive, and may be more expensive in the future, given the growth of the satellite radio industry and amounts paid for other programming. Changes in the cost of certain programming or other factors may cause changes to our channel line-up in the future. Our ability to obtain necessary third-party content at a reasonable cost and re-negotiate programming agreements successfully will impact our financial performance and results of operations. We must maintain and pay license fees for music rights, and we may have disputes with copyright holders. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with and pay license fees to Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”) and the Society of European Stage Authors and Composers, Inc. (“SESAC”). These organizations represent copyright users, collect royalties and distribute them to songwriters and music publishers. We have agreements which establish the license fee amounts payable to those entities through 2006, and will need to be renegotiated at that time. Under the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, we also have to negotiate royalty arrangements with the copyright owners of the sound recordings, or if negotiation is unsuccessful, have the royalty rate established by a copyright royalty board. We have an agreement with the Recording Industry Association of America (“RIAA”), through its division, SoundExchange, establishing royalty payment arrangements for these performance rights through 2006. Some organizations representing copyright holders have publicly stated their concerns regarding new features in certain portable devices, including devices that combine XM Radio and MP3 functionality and allow subscribers to listen to XM Radio programming after the initial broadcast (time-shifting), similar to the functionality of DVR’s such as TiVO® products. We believe these new XM radios, which have various functionalities currently available to consumers, comply with applicable copyright law. However, we cannot assure you that royalty fees will remain at current levels or that arbitration or litigation will not arise in connection with royalty arrangements or new devices, and we cannot predict what the costs to our company of a proceeding or a settlement of such a dispute or disputes might be. We may need additional funding for our business plan and additional financing might not be available. Although we believe we have sufficient cash and credit facilities available to fund our operations through the date on which we expect our business to begin generating positive cash flow, we may need additional financing due to future developments or changes in our business plan. In addition, our actual funding requirements could vary materially from our current estimates. If additional financing is needed, we may not be able to raise sufficient funds on favorable terms or at all. Failing to obtain any necessary financing on a timely basis could result in a number of adverse effects that includes defaulting on our commitment to creditors, which might cause us to seek a purchaser of our business or assets. Our inability to retain customers, including those who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to our service, could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot predict how successful we will be at retaining customers who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to our service as part of the promotion of our product. Over the past several quarters we have retained approximately 54 to 61 percent of the customers who receive a promotional subscription as part of the purchase or lease of a new vehicle, but that percentage does vary over time and the amount of data on the percentage is limited. We do not know if the percentage will change as the number of customers with promotional subscriptions increases. We experience subscriber turnover, or churn, with respect to our customers as well. Because we have been in commercial operations for a relatively short period of time, we cannot predict the amount of churn we will experience over the longer term. Our inability to retain customers who purchase or lease new vehicles with our service beyond the promotional period and subscriber turnover could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Failure to timely replace our existing satellites could damage our business. We have been disclosing since the third quarter of 2001 a progressive degradation problem with the solar array output power of early Boeing 702 class satellites, including both XM-1 and XM-2. Based on the consistency of the degradation trends and continuing analyses by BSS and us, our management adjusted the estimated useful lives of our in-orbit satellites, with effect from September 2002, to the period running through first quarter 2008 (approximately 6.75 years from launch). We and the manufacturer are continuing to watch the progression of the situation, including data from a satellite that has been in orbit longer than either of our two satellites by approximately 17 and 15 months, respectively. With this advance visibility of performance levels, we launched our XM-3 satellite in February 2005. XM-3 was placed into one of our orbital slots and beginning in April 2005 is being used to transmit the XM service. XM-1 was collocated with XM-2 in the other orbital slot (which allows partial use of XM-1 and XM-2 through the first quarter of 2008). With this plan, the ongoing construction of an additional satellite, XM-4, and contractual arrangements in place to provide XM-4 launch services, we believe we will be able to launch XM-4 prior to the time the solar array power problem on XM-1 and XM-2 might cause the broadcast signal strength (even in collocated mode) to fall below minimum acceptable levels. We have also entered into a contract to construct an additional satellite, XM-5, expected to be completed by the end of 2007 for use as a ground spare or to be available for launch in the event there is a launch or early operations failure of XM-4. However, we cannot assure you that such actions will allow us to maintain adequate broadcast signal strength, particularly in the event of a launch or operational failure of either XM-4 or XM-5. If either XM-1, XM-2, or XM-3 were to fail or suffer unanticipated additional performance degradation prematurely, or if there were a launch or operational failure of either XM-4 or XM-5, it likely would affect the quality of our service, and might interrupt the continuation of our service and harm our business. This harm would continue until we successfully launched and operated one or more additional satellites. A number of other factors could decrease the useful lives of our satellites, including: • defects in design or construction; • loss of on board station-keeping system; • failure of satellite components that are not protected by back-up units; • electrostatic storms; and • collisions with other objects in space. In addition, our network of terrestrial repeaters communicates principally with one satellite. If the satellite communicating with the repeater network fails unexpectedly, we would have to realign all the repeaters to communicate with the other satellite. This would result in a degradation of service that could last several days and could harm our business. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. Insurance proceeds may not fully cover our losses. For example, our insurance does not cover the full cost of constructing, launching and insuring our three satellites, nor will it cover and we do not have protection against business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. Also, our insurance contains customary exclusions, salvage value provisions, material change and other conditions that could limit our recovery. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis in order to launch a spare satellite or construct and launch a replacement satellite or take other remedial measures. In addition, some of our policies are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, this may impair our ability to make timely payments on our outstanding notes and other financial obligations. Competition from Sirius Satellite Radio and traditional and emerging audio entertainment providers could adversely affect our revenues. In seeking market acceptance of our service, we encounter competition for both listeners and advertising revenues from many sources, including Sirius Satellite Radio, the other U.S. satellite radio licensee; traditional and digital AM/FM radio; Internet based audio providers; MP3 players; direct broadcast satellite television audio service; and cable systems that carry audio service. Sirius has announced that it had over 3.3 million subscribers as of December 31, 2005, including over 2.2 million net new subscribers during the year then ended. Sirius broadcasts over 125 channels of programming and offers certain programming that we do not offer. In January 2006 the Howard Stern radio show began airing exclusively on Sirius. Sirius Radio service is 22 Table of Contents offered as a dealer- and/or factory-installed option on a number of vehicle model brands, including certain ones that do not offer XM. Sirius has announced a number of new competitive product offerings. Sirius also is a partner in a Canadian joint venture partnership that competes with our Canadian licensee in providing satellite radio service in Canada. Unlike XM Radio, traditional AM/FM radio already has a well-established and dominant market presence for its services and generally offers free broadcast reception supported by commercial advertising, rather than by a subscription fee. Also, many radio stations offer information programming of a local nature, such as news and sports reports, which XM Radio is not expected to offer as effectively as local radio, or at all. To the extent that consumers place a high value on these features of traditional AM/FM radio, we are at a competitive disadvantage to the dominant providers of audio entertainment services. Some radio stations have begun reducing the number of commercials per hour, expanding the range of music played on the air and experimenting with new formats in order to compete more directly with satellite radio. Several major radio companies, including Clear Channel Communications, Infinity Broadcasting and Entercom Communications, recently banded together to launch an advertising campaign designed to assert that traditional AM/FM radio, like satellite radio, is innovative and features new artists, and formed a joint venture to encourage the development of digital terrestrial radio. Digital radio broadcast services have been expanding, and an increasing number of radio stations in the U.S. have begun digital broadcasting or are in the process of converting to digital broadcasting. The technology permits broadcasters to transmit as many as five stations per frequency. To the extent that traditional AM/FM radio stations adopt digital transmission technology such as that offered by iBiquity and to the extent such technology allows signal quality that rivals our own, any competitive advantage that we enjoy over traditional radio because of our digital signal would be lessened. Internet radio broadcasts have no geographic limitations and can provide listeners with radio programming from around the country and the world. We expect that improvements from higher bandwidths, faster modems and wider programming selection will make Internet radio increasingly competitive, in particular with our XM Internet service. The Apple iPod®, a portable digital music player that stores up to 15,000 songs, allows users to download and purchase music through Apple’s iTunes® Music Store, which offers over 2 million songs and 11,000 audio books. Apple has disclosed that it shipped over 22.5 million iPods® and sold more than one million videos during its fiscal 2005 year. The iPod® is also compatible with certain car stereos and various home speaker systems. Our recently announced digital audio players with the XM + Napster online service will compete with the iPod® and other downloading technology and devices. Our business could be adversely affected by the performance of our business partners. Our business depends in part on actions of third parties, including: • the sale of new vehicles with factory installed XM radios; • the development and manufacture of XM radios and other XM-compatible devices; and • the availability of XM radios for sale to the public by consumer electronics retailers. The sale of vehicles with XM radios is an important source of subscribers for us. To the extent sales of vehicles by our distribution partners slow, our subscriber growth could be adversely impacted. We do not manufacture satellite radios or accessories, and we depend on manufacturers and others for the production of these radios and their component parts. If one or more manufacturers raises the price of the radios or does not produce radios in a sufficient quantity to meet demand, or if such radios were not to perform as advertised or were to be defective, sales of our service and our reputation could be adversely affected. Our business or reputation also could be harmed in the event our retailing partners were to fail to make XM radios available to the public in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner or at attractive prices. One of our major business partners is experiencing financial difficulties. On October 8, 2005, Delphi and 38 of its domestic U.S. subsidiaries, which we refer to collectively as Delphi, filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Delphi manufactures, in factories outside the United States, XM radios for installation in various brands of GM vehicles. Delphi also distributes to consumer electronics retailers various models of XM radios manufactured abroad. Pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court dated October 28, 2005, Delphi Corporation secured debtor-in-possession financing up to an aggregate principal amount of $2 billion. The financing is guaranteed by all of the other Delphi 23 Table of Contents entities, which are debtors in the Delphi bankruptcy cases. Delphi has also stated that its overall liquidity (including funds on hand outside the United States that Delphi does not plan to repatriate to fund U.S. operations) will support its global operations outside the U.S. and help assure the continued adequacy of working capital throughout Delphi’s global business units. Delphi has stated that its plants should continue normal operations and GM has stated that Delphi expects no disruption in its ability to supply GM with the systems, components and parts GM needs. Delphi has advised us that it expects no disruption in the continued supply of XM radios. However, we cannot estimate with any reasonable assurance the impact, if any, on XM or GM that may ultimately result from Delphi’s petition for reorganization under Chapter 11. Higher than expected subscriber acquisition costs could adversely affect our financial performance. We are still spending substantial funds on advertising and marketing and in transactions with car and radio manufacturers and other parties to obtain or as part of the expense of attracting new subscribers. Our ability to achieve cash flow breakeven within the expected timeframe depends on our ability to continue to maintain or lower these costs. If the costs of attracting new subscribers or incentivizing other parties are greater than expected through higher per-unit costs or higher than anticipated subscriber growth volume, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, which could reduce the value of our securities. As of December 31, 2005, the total accreted value of our indebtedness was $1.1 billion ($1.0 billion carrying value). The carrying amount has continued to increase during 2005 as our indebtedness accretes, and we may issue more debt securities if we believe we can raise money on favorable terms. Most of our indebtedness will mature in 2009 and 2010. However, our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development costs and other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause us to have to discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for our business or assets. In addition, the covenants allow us to incur more debt in the future, which could increase our total indebtedness. Weaker than expected market and advertiser acceptance of our XM Radio service could adversely affect our advertising revenue and results of operations. Our ability to generate advertising revenues will depend on several factors, including the level and type of market penetration of our service, competition for advertising dollars from other media, and changes in the advertising industry and economy generally. We directly compete for audiences and advertising revenues with Sirius Satellite Radio, the other satellite radio licensee, and traditional AM/FM radio stations, some of which maintain longstanding relationships with advertisers and possess greater resources than we do. Because we offer our radio service to subscribers on a pay-for-service basis, certain advertisers may be less likely to advertise on our radio service. Our business may be impaired by third party intellectual property rights. Development of the XM Radio system has depended largely upon the intellectual property that we have developed and licensed from third parties. If the intellectual property that we have developed or use is not adequately protected, others will be permitted to and may duplicate the XM Radio system or service without liability. In addition, others may challenge, 24 Table of Contents invalidate or circumvent our intellectual property rights, patents or existing sublicenses. Some of the know-how and technology we have developed and plan to develop will not be covered by United States patents. Trade secret protection and contractual agreements may not provide adequate protection if there is any unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss of necessary technologies could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality performance standards, at greater cost or on a delayed basis, which could harm our business. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications, which will later mature into patents or inventions which may block our ability to operate our system or license our technology. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights under license agreements or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights in the subject matter of those licenses. This may be expensive. Also, we may not succeed in any such litigation. Third parties may assert claims or bring suit against us for patent or other infringement of intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to, and diversion of effort by, our company, and adverse findings in any proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; require us to seek licenses from third parties; block our ability to operate the XM Radio system or license its technology; or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and market the XM Radio system. Rapid technological and industry changes could make our service obsolete. The satellite industry and the audio entertainment industry are both characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Because we have depended on third parties to develop technologies used in key elements of the XM Radio system, more advanced technologies that we may wish to use may not be available to us on reasonable terms or in a timely manner. Further, our competitors may have access to technologies not available to us, which may enable them to produce entertainment products of greater interest to consumers, or at a more competitive cost. Failure to comply with FCC requirements could damage our business. As an owner of one of two FCC licenses to operate a commercial satellite radio service in the United States, we are subject to FCC rules and regulations, and the terms of our license, which require us to meet certain conditions such as interoperability of our system with the other licensed satellite radio system; coordination of our satellite radio service with radio systems operating in the same range of frequencies in neighboring countries; and coordination of our communications links to our satellites with other systems that operate in the same frequency band. Non-compliance by us with these conditions could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. Interference from other users could damage our business. We may be subject to interference from adjacent radio frequency users, such as RF lighting and ultra-wideband (“UWB”) technology, if the FCC does not adequately protect us against such interference in its rulemaking process. The FCC has not issued final rules authorizing terrestrial repeaters. The FCC has not yet issued final rules permitting us to deploy terrestrial repeaters to fill gaps in satellite coverage. We are operating our repeaters on a non-interference basis pursuant to grants of Special Temporary Authority (“STA”) from the FCC, which have expired. We have applied for extensions of these STAs and can continue to operate our terrestrial repeaters pending a final determination on these requests. One grant of STA is currently being challenged by operators of terrestrial wireless systems who have asserted that our repeaters may cause interference. Our deployment of terrestrial repeaters may be impacted by the FCC’s further actions, when taken. Our service network or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes. Since our ground-based network is attached to towers, buildings and other structures around the country, an earthquake, tornado, flood or other catastrophic event anywhere in the United States could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. We have backup central production and broadcast facilities; however, we do not have replacement or redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of our repeater network in the event of a 25 Table of Contents catastrophic event. Any damage to our repeater network would likely result in degradation of our service for some subscribers and could result in the complete loss of service in affected areas. Damage to our central production and broadcast facility would restrict our production of programming to our backup facilities. Consumers could steal our service. Like all radio transmissions, the XM Radio signal is subject to interception. Pirates may be able to obtain or rebroadcast XM Radio without paying the subscription fee. Although we use encryption technology to mitigate the risk of signal theft, such technology may not be adequate to prevent theft of the XM Radio signal. If widespread, signal theft could harm our business. We depend on certain on-air talent and other people with special skills. If we cannot retain these people, our business could suffer. We employ or independently contract with certain on-air talent who maintain significant loyal audiences in or across various demographic groups. We cannot be certain that our on-air talent will remain with us or will be able to retain their respective audiences. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, and fail to attract comparable on-air talent with similar audience loyalty, the attractiveness of our service to subscribers and advertisers could decline, and our business could be adversely affected. We also depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and key employees, who have specialized technical knowledge regarding our satellite and radio systems and business knowledge regarding the radio industry and subscription services. If we lose the services of one or more of these employees, or fail to attract qualified replacement personnel, it could harm our business and our future prospects. The market price of our securities could be hurt by substantial price and volume fluctuations. Historically, securities prices and trading volumes for growth stocks fluctuate widely for a number of reasons, including some reasons that may be unrelated to their businesses or results of operations. This market volatility could depress the price of our securities without regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our securities would likely significantly decrease. The holders of our Series C convertible redeemable preferred stock issued in January 2003 have consent rights that may prevent us from engaging in transactions otherwise beneficial to holders of our securities. Under the terms of our Series C convertible redeemable preferred stock, the consent of holders of at least 60 percent of the Series C convertible redeemable preferred stock is required before we can take certain actions, including issuances of additional equity securities and the incurrence of indebtedness under which we must meet financial covenants to avoid default. These requirements could hamper our ability to raise additional funds. The consent of holders of at least 60 percent of the Series C convertible redeemable preferred stock is also required for transactions with affiliates, other than on an arm’s-length basis, and for any merger or sale of our assets. The approval for a merger could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and thus could depress our stock price. We cannot assure you that these rights will be exercised in a manner consistent with your best interests. Future issuances of our Class A common stock could lower our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We have issued and outstanding securities exercisable for or convertible into a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock, some of which accrue interest, which is convertible into Class A common stock, or give us the option to make interest or other payments in our Class A common stock or securities convertible into Class A common stock. The conversion or exercise of these existing securities could lead to a significant increase in the amount of Class A common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding approximately 241 million shares of Class A common stock. On a pro forma basis as of December 31, 2005, if we issued all shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of outstanding securities, we would have had approximately 351 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on that date. Issuances of a large number of additional shares could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Most of the shares of our Class A common stock that are not already publicly-traded, including those held by affiliates, have been registered by us for resale into the public market. The sale into the public market of a large number of privately-issued shares also could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. 26 Table of Contents It may be hard for a third party to acquire us, and this could depress our stock price. We are a Delaware company with unissued preferred stock, the terms of which can be set by our board of directors. Our shareholder rights plan could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our security holders. The rights issued under the plan have certain anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights should not deter any prospective offeror willing to negotiate in good faith with our board of directors. Nor should the rights interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. However, anti-takeover provisions in Delaware law and the shareholder rights plan could depress our stock price and may result in entrenchment of existing management, regardless of their performance. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 