ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Potential investors are urged to read and consider the risk factors relating to an investment in XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. contained herein. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks as well as other information we include in or incorporate by reference into our public filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties we have described are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also affect our business operations. In connection with the merger, a substantial amount of our indebtedness will need to be refinanced. In connection with the merger, an offer to repurchase a significant portion of our outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof will be required under the terms of such debt. Any required repurchase would likely be financed with other debt and, due to prevailing conditions in the debt markets, debt financing to fund such repurchase may not be available on terms favorable to the combined company or at all. Similarly, we may not be able to solicit the consent of holders to amend our debt to eliminate the repurchase obligation on favorable terms or at all. At December 31, 2007, the aggregate principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion, and no outstanding notes were trading above 101% of the outstanding principal amount. We believe that if the notes are trading above 101% at the time of any required repurchase offer, a large majority of holders would be unlikely to sell their notes in the repurchase offer. The combined company’s indebtedness following the completion of the merger will be substantial. This indebtedness could adversely affect the combined company in many ways, including by reducing funds available for other business purposes. The pro forma indebtedness of the combined company as of December 31, 2007, after giving effect to the merger, would have been approximately $2.8 billion. As a result of this debt, demands on the combined company’s cash resources may increase after the merger. The increased levels of indebtedness could reduce funds available for investment in research and development and capital expenditures or create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. In addition, existing covenants in the Sirius and XM debt instruments limit the transfer of cash between the two companies and require that inter-company dealings be effected on an arm’s-length basis, which may affect the timing or amount of synergies realized from the integration of the two companies. The ability to complete the merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities, which may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or could cause either party to abandon the merger. In deciding whether to grant regulatory or antitrust approvals, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the merger on competition within their relevant jurisdictions. The terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. The merger agreement may require us to accept significant conditions from regulatory bodies before either of us may refuse to close the merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that either party will obtain the necessary approvals or that any other conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Any delay in completion of the merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the merger. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger may significantly reduce the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if we successfully complete the merger within the expected timeframe and integrate our and Sirius’s businesses. The anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in two distinct locations. Due to legal restrictions, we and Sirius have conducted only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to 17 integrating the two companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Even if we were able to integrate our business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Additionally, as a condition to their approval of the merger, regulatory agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. If we and Sirius agree to these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger may be impaired. Failure to complete the merger for regulatory or other reasons could adversely affect our stock price and our future business and financial results. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of certain regulatory and antitrust approvals, including from the Federal Communications Commission and under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended. There is no assurance that we will receive the necessary approvals or satisfy the other conditions to the completion of the merger. Failure to complete the proposed merger would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger. We also will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, regardless of whether the merger is completed. In addition, the market price of our common stock may reflect various market assumptions as to whether the merger will occur. Consequently, the completion of, or failure to complete, the merger could result in a significant change in the market price of our common stock. Uncertainty about the merger and diversion of management could harm us, whether or not the merger is completed. In response to the pending merger, existing or prospective subscribers, retailers, radio manufacturers, automakers and programming providers may delay or defer their purchasing or other decisions concerning us, or they may seek to change their existing business relationship. In addition, as a result of the merger, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with XM or the combined company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key personnel. Completion of the merger will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. You could lose money on your investment because our expenses exceed our revenues. Unless we continue to increase our revenues, we may not be able to operate our business and service our indebtedness and you could lose money on your investment. Our ability to continue to increase our revenues and ultimately to become profitable will depend upon several factors, including: • whether we can attract and retain enough subscribers to XM Radio; • our ability to maintain the costs of obtaining and retaining subscribers and programming; • whether we compete successfully; and • whether our XM Radio system continues to operate at an acceptable level. Our cumulative expenditures and losses have been significant and are expected to grow. As of December 31, 2007, we had incurred capital expenditures of $1.8 billion and cumulative net losses approximating $4.2 billion from our inception through December 31, 2007. We expect our cumulative net losses and cumulative negative cash flows to grow as we make payments under our various distribution and programming contracts, incur marketing and subscriber acquisition costs and make interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness. If we are unable ultimately to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable and generate positive cash flow, you could lose money on your investment. Demand for our service may be insufficient for us to become profitable. Because we offer a relatively new service, we cannot estimate with any certainty whether consumer demand for our service will be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of subscribers at projected rates or the degree to which we will 18 meet that demand. We have seen a significant decrease in new subscription demand from retail subscribers and most of our new subscription growth has come from the OEM segment. Among other things, continuing and increased consumer acceptance of XM Radio will depend upon: • the willingness of consumers, on a mass-market basis, to pay subscription fees to obtain radio service rather than obtain their desired programming from other sources; • the cost, features and availability of XM radios; and • the marketing and pricing strategies that we employ and that are employed by our competitors. If demand for our products and service does not continue to increase, we may not be able to generate enough revenues to generate positive cash flow or to become profitable. We may need additional funding for our business plan and additional financing might not be available. Provided that we meet the revenue, expense and cash flow projections of our current business plan, we expect to be fully funded and not need additional liquidity to continue operations beyond our existing assets, credit facilities and cash generated by operations; our current business plan is based on estimates regarding expected future costs, expected future revenue and assumes the refinancing or renegotiating of certain of our obligations (which are discussed under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7. of this Form 10-K) as they become due, including the maturity of our existing credit facilities and $400 million of convertible notes in 2009. Our costs may exceed or our revenues may fall short of our estimates, our estimates may change, and future developments may affect our estimates. Any of these factors may increase our need for funds, which would require us to seek additional financing, which financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, to continue implementing our current business plan. In addition, we may seek additional financing, such as the sale of additional equity and debt securities, to undertake initiatives not contemplated by our current business plan or for other business reasons, or seek to refinance or renegotiate certain of our other obligations. The unfavorable outcome of pending or future litigation or investigations could have a material adverse effect on us. We have been party to several legal proceedings, regulatory inquiries and other matters arising out of various aspects of our business. They include an inquiry by the FCC based on a determination that the FM modulator wireless transmitter on certain XM radios was not in compliance with permissible emission limits and most recently discussions with the FCC about issues relating to our repeater network. We also are a party to three separate suits brought by a number of record companies and music publishers alleging that XM radios that also have advanced recording functionality infringe upon plaintiffs’ copyrighted sound recordings. We intend to cooperate fully with the governmental investigations and to vigorously defend all of our litigation matters. However, we cannot assure a favorable outcome of any of these proceedings, or that an unfavorable outcome would not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Large payment obligations under our agreements with General Motors and other automobile manufacturers, suppliers of programming and others may prevent us from becoming profitable. We have significant payment obligations under our agreements with automobile manufacturers, third-party suppliers of programming and licensors of program royalties. Although we paid General Motors approximately $237 million to eliminate obligations to pay approximately $320 million during 2007, 2008 and 2009, we still have significant remaining payment obligations under our long-term distribution agreement with General Motors. We also have or in the future will have payment obligations under agreements with other automobile manufacturers, and we will need to negotiate new or replacement agreements with these or other manufacturers over the next several years. Under our multi-year agreement with Major League Baseball® (“MLB”) for the rights to broadcast MLB games live nationwide and be the Official Satellite Radio provider of Major League Baseball®, we are obligated to pay $60 million per year through 2012. In July 2006, we furnished a $120.0 million two-year surety bond to MLB as part of an amendment to the agreement with MLB that permitted us to provide various types of credit support in lieu of its $120.0 million escrow deposit requirement. If we are unable to renew this bond or obtain other credit support acceptable to MLB, there can be no assurance that we will not have to deposit funds to meet the escrow deposit requirement. We have many other agreements and must negotiate renewal or replacement agreements with third-party suppliers of programming. Our payment obligations could increase when agreements are renewed or replaced, and will increase under the terms of certain existing agreements as the number of our subscribers increases. Changes in the cost of certain programming or other factors could cause changes to our channel line-up in the future. These payment obligations could significantly impact our ability to become profitable or generate positive cash flow 19 and the amount that we may need to borrow. We may seek to renegotiate certain of these arrangements to generate positive cash flow and reduce our need for external funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete such renegotiations on favorable terms or at all. We must maintain and pay license fees for music rights, and we may have disputes with copyright holders. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with and pay license fees to Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”) and SESAC, Inc. (“SESAC”). These organizations negotiate with copyright users, collect royalties and distribute them to songwriters and music publishers. Although we have final agreements with ASCAP and SESAC, respectively, through December 2011, we continue to operate under an interim agreement with BMI. We cannot assure you that the BMI royalty fee will remain at the current level when the agreement is finalized. Under the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, we also have to negotiate royalty arrangements with the copyright owners of the sound recordings, or if negotiation is unsuccessful, have the royalty rate established by the Copyright Royalty Board (“CRB”). We participated in a CRB proceeding in order to set the royalty rate payable by XM under the statutory license covering our performance of sound recordings over the XM system for the six year period starting in January 2007, which is described under the heading “Legal Proceedings — Litigation and Arbitration — Copyright Royalty Board Proceeding” in Item 3. of this Form 10-K. We have been sued by several companies in the recording industry and music publishers alleging that XM radios that also have advanced recording functionality infringe upon plaintiffs’ copyrighted sound recordings. We believe these XM radios, which have various functionalities widely available to consumers, comply with applicable copyright law, including the Audio Home Recording Act. Our motion to dismiss this matter was denied. There can be no assurance regarding the ultimate outcome of this matter, or the significance, if any, to the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations or financial position. Our inability to retain customers, including those who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to our service, could adversely affect our financial performance. We cannot predict how successful we will be at retaining customers who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to our service as part of the promotion of our product. Over the past several quarters we have retained approximately 52% to 55% of the customers who receive a promotional subscription as part of the purchase or lease of a new vehicle, but that percentage does vary over time and the amount of data on the percentage is limited. We do not know if the percentage will change as the number of customers with promotional subscriptions increases. We experience subscriber churn, with respect to our self-pay or non-promotional customers as well. Because we have been in commercial operations for a relatively short period of time, we cannot predict the amount of churn we will experience over the longer term. Our inability to retain customers who purchase or lease new vehicles with our service beyond the promotional period and subscriber churn could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Loss or premature degradation of our existing satellites could damage our business. We placed our XM-3 and XM-4 satellites into service during the second quarter of 2005 and fourth quarter of 2006, respectively. Our XM-1 and XM-2 satellites experienced progressive degradation problems common to early Boeing 702 class satellites and now serve as in-orbit spares. During 2007, we entered into a sale leaseback transaction with respect to the transponders on our XM-4 satellite. If we fail to make the required payments under this arrangement, we could lose the right to use XM-4 to broadcast our service. The terms of this arrangement also require that upon the occurrence of specified events, including an operational failure or loss of XM-4, then we have to repurchase the satellite and we may not receive sufficient insurance proceeds to do so. An operational failure or loss of XM-3 or XM-4 would, at least temporarily, affect the quality of our service, and could interrupt the continuation of our service and harm our business. We likely would not be able to complete and launch our XM-5 satellite before the first half of 2009. In the event of any satellite failure prior to that time, we would need to rely on our back-up satellites, XM-1 and XM-2. We cannot assure you that restoring service through XM-1 and XM-2 would allow us to maintain adequate broadcast signal strength through the in-service date of XM-5, particularly if XM-1 or XM-2 were to suffer unanticipated additional performance degradation or experience an operational failure. A number of other factors could decrease the useful lives of our satellites, including: • defects in design or construction; • loss of on board station-keeping system; • failure of satellite components that are not protected by back-up units; 20 • electrostatic storms; and • collisions with other objects in space. In addition, our network of terrestrial repeaters communicates principally with one satellite. If the satellite communicating with the repeater network fails unexpectedly, we would have to activate our backup satellites (XM-1 and XM-2) to restore repeater service. This would result in a degradation of service that could last several hours or longer and could harm our business. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. Insurance proceeds may not fully cover our losses. For example, our insurance does not cover the full cost of constructing, launching and insuring new satellites, nor will it cover and we do not have protection against business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. Also, our insurance contains customary exclusions, salvage value provisions, material change and other conditions that could limit our recovery. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis in order to launch a spare satellite or construct and launch a replacement satellite or take other remedial measures. In addition, some of our policies are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, this may impair our ability to make timely payments on our outstanding notes and other financial obligations. Competition could adversely affect our revenues. In seeking market acceptance of our service, we encounter competition for both listeners and advertising revenues from many sources, including Sirius, the other U.S. satellite radio licensee; traditional and digital AM/FM radio; Internet based audio providers; MP3 players; wireless carriers; direct broadcast satellite television audio service; digital media services; and cable systems that carry audio service. Sirius has announced that it had over 8 million subscribers as of December 31, 2007, including over 2.3 million net new subscribers during the year then ended. Sirius broadcasts over 130 channels of programming and offers certain programming that we do not offer, including the Howard Stern radio show. Sirius radio service is offered as a dealer- and/or factory-installed option on a number of vehicle model brands, including certain ones that do not offer XM. Sirius has announced a number of new competitive product offerings. Sirius also is a partner in a Canadian joint venture partnership that competes with our Canadian licensee in providing satellite radio service in Canada. Unlike XM Radio, traditional AM/FM radio already has a well-established and dominant market presence for its services and generally offers free broadcast reception supported by commercial advertising, rather than by a subscription fee. Also, many radio stations offer information programming of a local nature, which XM Radio is not expected to offer as effectively as local radio, or at all. Some radio stations have reduced the number of commercials per hour, expanded the range of music played on the air and are experimenting with new formats in order to compete with satellite radio. Digital (or HD or high definition) radio broadcast services have been expanding, and as many as 1,500 radio stations in the U.S. have begun digital broadcasting and approximately 3,000 have committed to broadcasting in digital format. The technology permits broadcasters to transmit as many as five stations per frequency. To the extent that traditional AM/FM radio stations adopt digital transmission technology, any competitive advantage that we enjoy over traditional radio because of our digital signal would be lessened. A group of major broadcast radio networks recently created a coalition to jointly market digital radio services. Internet radio broadcasts have no geographic limitations and can provide listeners with radio programming from around the country and the world. We expect that improvements from higher bandwidths, faster modems, wider programming selection and mobile internet service, will make Internet radio increasingly competitive. The Apple iPod® is a portable digital music player that allows users to download and purchase music through Apple’s iTunes® Music Store, as well as convert music on compact disc to digital files. Apple sold over 51 million iPods® during its fiscal 2007 year. The iPod® is also compatible with certain car stereos and various home speaker systems. Our portable digital audio players including those with advanced recording functionality compete with the iPod® and other downloading technology and devices; and some consumers may use their digital music players in their vehicles rather than subscribe to XM Radio. 21 The audio entertainment marketplace continues to evolve rapidly, with a steady emergence of new media platforms and portable devices that compete with us now or that could compete with us in the future. For example, Slacker and other companies have begun to introduce portable music players offering customizable Internet-based channels. Ford and Microsoft recently debuted an in-car communications system called “Sync,” which allows drivers to use voice commands or steering wheel controls to play songs from their digital-music players. In addition, ICO recently demonstrated a satellite-based mobile entertainment platform to deliver live broadcast media nationwide through a hybrid satellite and terrestrial repeater network. Rapid technological and industry changes could make our service obsolete. The audio entertainment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Because we have depended on third parties to develop technologies used in key elements of the XM Radio system, more advanced technologies that we may wish to use may not be available to us on reasonable terms or in a timely manner. Further, our competitors may have access to technologies not available to us, which may enable them to produce entertainment products of greater interest to consumers, or at a more competitive cost. Higher than expected subscriber acquisition costs could adversely affect our financial performance. We are still spending substantial funds on advertising and marketing and in transactions with car and radio manufacturers and other parties to obtain or as part of the expense of attracting new subscribers, including our subscriber acquisition costs and costs per gross (or net) subscriber addition. Our ability to achieve cash flow breakeven and profitability within the expected timeframe or at all depends on our ability to continue to maintain or lower these costs, which vary over time based on a number of factors. If the costs of attracting new subscribers are greater than expected, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by the performance of our business partners. Our business depends in part on actions of third parties, including: • the sale of new vehicles with factory installed XM radios; • the development and manufacture of XM radios and other XM-compatible devices; and • the availability of XM radios for sale to the public by consumer electronics retailers. The sale of vehicles with XM radios is an important source of subscribers for us. To the extent sales of vehicles by our distribution partners slow, or the penetration percentage of factory-installed XM radios in those vehicles declines, our subscriber growth could be adversely impacted. We do not manufacture satellite radios or accessories, and we depend on manufacturers and others for the production of these radios and their component parts. If one or more manufacturers raises the price of the radios or does not produce radios in a sufficient quantity to meet demand, or if such radios were not to perform as advertised or were to be defective, sales of our service and our reputation could be adversely affected. Our business or reputation also could be harmed in the event our retailing partners were to fail to make XM radios available to the public in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner or at attractive prices. Failure to comply with FCC requirements could damage our business. As an owner of one of two FCC licenses to operate a commercial satellite radio service in the United States, an operator of a terrestrial repeater system and the holder of authorizations for the production of certain satellite radios, we are subject to FCC rules and regulations and the terms of our licenses and other authorizations. We are required, among other things, to operate only within specified frequencies and other limitations, and to meet certain conditions such as the availability of radios interoperable with both our system and the other licensed satellite radio system; coordination of our satellite radio service with radio systems operating in the same range of frequencies in neighboring countries; and coordination of our communications links to our satellites with other systems that operate in the same frequency band. Non-compliance by us with these requirements or conditions could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. The FCC has not issued final rules authorizing terrestrial repeaters. The FCC has not yet issued final rules permitting us to deploy terrestrial repeaters to fill gaps in satellite coverage. We are operating our repeaters on a non-interference basis pursuant to grants of Special Temporary Authority (“STA”) from the 22 FCC, which have expired. We have applied for extensions of these STAs and can continue to operate our terrestrial repeaters pending a final determination on these requests. We have made filings with the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) to update the information underlying our STA with respect to our repeater network, including repeater power levels, locations and antenna characteristics. We have held meetings with the staff of the FCC regarding these matters. In February 2007, we received a letter of inquiry from the FCC relating to these matters. One grant of STA and our request to update are currently being opposed by operators of terrestrial wireless systems and others. This proceeding may result in the imposition of financial penalties against us or adverse changes to our repeater network resulting from having repeaters turned off or otherwise modified in a manner that would reduce service quality in the affected areas. One of our major business partners is experiencing financial difficulties. On October 8, 2005, Delphi and 38 of its domestic U.S. subsidiaries, which we refer to collectively as Delphi, filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Delphi manufactures, in factories outside the United States, XM radios for installation in various brands of GM vehicles. Delphi also distributes to consumer electronics retailers various models of XM radios manufactured abroad. On January 25, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the First Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Delphi Corporation and certain Affiliates, Debtors and Debtors-In-Possession, as Modified (the “Plan”). Pursuant to the Plan, Delphi settled certain disputes it had with General Motors, certain of Delphi’s unions and other parties. The Plan provides for a reorganization of Delphi and the emergence of Delphi from bankruptcy as an ongoing entity. Pursuant to the Plan, Delphi assumed all executory contracts it had with contract parties including XM. Under the Plan, Delphi may reject the contract if the Bankruptcy Court’s resolution is not acceptable to Delphi. The Plan is subject to certain conditions being satisfied before it can become effective. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, which could reduce the value of our securities. As of December 31, 2007, the total accreted value and carrying value of our indebtedness was $1.5 billion. We may issue more debt securities if we believe we can raise money on favorable terms. Our $250.0 million bank credit facility, of which $187.5 million has been drawn, and $400.0 million of 1.75% Convertible Senior Notes mature in 2009. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development costs and other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause us to have to discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for our business or assets. In addition, the covenants allow us to incur more debt in the future, which could increase our total indebtedness. Weaker than expected market and advertiser acceptance of our XM Radio service could adversely affect our advertising revenue and results of operations. Our ability to generate advertising revenues will depend on several factors, including the level and type of penetration of our service, competition for advertising dollars from other media, and changes in the advertising industry and economy generally. We directly compete for audiences and advertising revenues with Sirius, the other satellite radio licensee, and traditional AM/FM radio stations, some of which maintain longstanding relationships with advertisers and possess greater resources than we do, and “new media,” including internet, internet radio, podcasts and others. Because we offer our radio service to subscribers on a pay-for-service basis, certain advertisers may be less likely to advertise on our radio service. 23 Our business may be impaired by third party intellectual property rights. Development of the XM Radio system has depended largely upon the intellectual property that we have developed and licensed from third parties. If the intellectual property that we have developed or use is not adequately protected, others will be permitted to and may duplicate the XM Radio system or service without liability. In addition, others may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our intellectual property rights, patents or existing sublicenses. Some of the know-how and technology we have developed and plan to develop will not be covered by United States patents. Trade secret protection and contractual agreements may not provide adequate protection if there is any unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss of necessary technologies could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality performance standards, at greater cost or on a delayed basis, which could harm our business. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications, which will later mature into patents or inventions which may block our ability to operate our system or license our technology. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights under license agreements or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights in the subject matter of those licenses. This may be expensive. Also, we may not succeed in any such litigation. Third parties may assert claims or bring suit against us for patent or other infringement of intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to, and diversion of effort by, our company, and adverse findings in any proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; require us to seek licenses from third parties; block our ability to operate the XM Radio system or license its technology; or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and market the XM Radio system. Interference from other users could damage our business. We may be subject to interference from adjacent radio frequency users, such as RF lighting and ultra-wideband (“UWB”) technology, if the FCC does not adequately protect us against such interference in its rulemaking process. Our service network or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes. Since our ground-based network is attached to towers, buildings and other structures around the country, an earthquake, tornado, flood or other catastrophic event anywhere in the United States could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. We have backup central production and broadcast facilities; however, we do not have replacement or redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of our repeater network in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to our repeater network would likely result in degradation of our service for some subscribers and could result in the complete loss of service in affected areas. Damage to our central production and broadcast facility would restrict our production of programming to our backup facilities. Consumers could steal our service. Like all radio transmissions, the XM Radio signal is subject to interception. Pirates may be able to obtain or rebroadcast XM Radio without paying the subscription fee. Although we use encryption technology to mitigate the risk of signal theft, such technology may not be adequate to prevent theft of the XM Radio signal. If widespread, signal theft could harm our business. We need to obtain rights to programming, which are expensive and could be more costly than anticipated. Third-party content is an important part of the marketing of the XM Radio service and obtaining third-party content can be expensive. We have a multi-year agreement with Major League Baseball® (“MLB”) to broadcast MLB games live nationwide and be the Official Satellite Radio provider of Major League Baseball®, for which we will pay $60 million for 2008 and $60 million per year thereafter through 2012. We have many other agreements and must negotiate new agreements with third-party suppliers of programming. Such programming is expensive, and may be more expensive in the future, given the growth of the satellite radio industry and amounts paid for other programming. Changes in the cost of certain programming or other factors may cause changes to our channel line-up in the future. Our ability to obtain necessary third-party content at a reasonable cost and re-negotiate programming agreements successfully will impact our financial performance and results of operations. 24 We depend on certain on-air talent and other people with special skills. If we cannot retain these people, our business could suffer. We employ or independently contract with on-air talent who maintain significant loyal audiences in or across various demographic groups. We cannot assure that our on-air talent will remain with us or will be able to retain their respective audiences. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, and fail to attract comparable on-air talent with similar audience loyalty, the attractiveness of our service to subscribers and advertisers could decline, and our business could be adversely affected. We also depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and key employees, who have specialized technical knowledge regarding our satellite and radio systems and business knowledge regarding the radio industry and subscription services. If we lose the services of one or more of them, or fail to attract qualified replacement personnel, it could harm our business and our future prospects. The market price of our securities could be hurt by substantial price and volume fluctuations. Historically, securities prices and trading volumes for growth stocks fluctuate widely for a number of reasons, including some reasons that may be unrelated to their businesses or results of operations. This market volatility could depress the price of our securities without regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating or financial results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our securities would likely decrease, and such decreases could be significant. Future issuances or sales of our Class A common stock could lower our stock price or impair our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We have issued and outstanding securities exercisable for or convertible into a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock. The conversion or exercise of these existing securities could lead to a significant increase in the amount of Class A common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding approximately 316.7 million shares of Class A common stock. On a pro forma basis as of December 31, 2007, if we issued all shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of outstanding securities, we would have had approximately 363.7 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding on that date. Issuances of a large number of additional shares could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Most of the shares of our Class A common stock that are not already publicly-traded, including those held by affiliates, have been registered by us for resale into the public market. The sale into the public market of a large number of privately-issued shares also could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. It may be hard for a third party to acquire us, and this could depress our stock price. We are a Delaware company with unissued preferred stock, the terms of which can be set by our board of directors. Our shareholder rights plan, which includes a waiver in respect of our proposed merger with Sirius, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our security holders. The rights issued under the plan have certain anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights should not deter any prospective offeror willing to negotiate in good faith with our board of directors. Nor should the rights interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. However, anti-takeover provisions in Delaware law and the shareholder rights plan could depress our stock price and may result in entrenchment of existing management, regardless of their performance. 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 