risk factors set forth under Item 1A of this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction Our principal offices are located at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania 19312, and our telephone number at that address is (610) 651-5900. Our Internet address is http://www.suncom.com. The information in our website is not part of this report. In this report, SunCom, we, us and our refer to SunCom Wireless Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. Holdings refers to SunCom Wireless Holdings, Inc. only, unless the context requires otherwise, and SunCom Wireless refers to SunCom Wireless, Inc., our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, only, unless the context requires otherwise. Overview We provide digital wireless communications services in the southeastern United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. As of December 31, 2006, our wireless communications network covered approximately 14.8 million potential customers in a contiguous geographic area primarily encompassing portions of North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Georgia. In addition, we operate a wireless communications network covering approximately 4.1 million potential customers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. We provide wireless communications services under the SunCom Wireless brand name. From 1998 until December 2004, we were a member of the AT&T Wireless network and a strategic partner with AT&T Wireless. Beginning in 1998, AT&T Wireless contributed to us personal communications services, or PCS, licenses covering various markets in the southeastern United States in exchange for an equity position in Holdings. As part of our transactions with AT&T Wireless, we were granted the right to be the exclusive provider of wireless mobility services using co-branding with AT&T Corp. within our region. In October 2004, Cingular Wireless (now AT&T Mobility) acquired all of the outstanding stock of AT&T Wireless through a merger of a Cingular Wireless subsidiary with and into AT&T Wireless. In connection with this transaction, SunCom, AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless (and certain of their subsidiaries) entered into certain agreements to modify our relationships with AT&T Wireless. Under these agreements, AT&T Wireless surrendered to Holdings, following the October 2004 consummation of the AT&T Wireless-Cingular Wireless merger, all of the equity interests in Holdings held by AT&T Wireless, and the parties concurrently terminated the agreement under which AT&T Wireless had granted us the exclusive right to provide AT&T Wireless branded wireless services within our region. The termination of the exclusivity arrangement permitted Cingular Wireless entry into our service area and provided us the opportunity to offer service in markets where we were previously prohibited from doing so. In December 2004, we transferred PCS network assets and related FCC licenses held for use in our Virginia markets to AT&T Wireless in exchange for PCS network assets and related FCC licenses held by AT&T Wireless for use in certain of its North Carolina markets, in Puerto Rico and in the U.S. Virgin Islands and the payment by Cingular Wireless to us of $175 million. In 2006, in connection with agreeing to sell our Athens network to Cingular Wireless (as described below under “Recent Developments”), we released Cingular Wireless and its affiliates from any claims against Cingular Wireless and its affiliates under the 2004 asset exchange agreement (See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3”), and Cingular Wireless released us and our affiliates from any such claims against us and our affiliates. We currently market our wireless service under the SunCom Wireless brand name. Our strategy is to provide extensive coverage to customers within our region, to offer our customers high-quality, innovative voice and data services with coast-to-coast coverage and to benefit from roaming revenues generated by other carriers’ wireless customers who roam into our covered area. We believe our markets are strategically attractive because of their strong demographic characteristics for wireless communications services. According to the 2005 Paul Kagan Associates Report, our service area includes 11 of the top 100 markets in the country with population densities that are higher than the national average. We currently provide wireless voice and data services utilizing Global System for Mobile Communications and General Packet Radio Service, or GSM/GPRS, technology, which is capable of providing enhanced voice and data services. Our goal is to provide our customers with simple, easy-to-use wireless services with superior call quality, personalized customer care and competitive pricing. We utilize a mix of sales and distribution channels, including as of December 31, 2006, a 1 Table of Contents network of 111 company-owned SunCom retail stores, local retailers, direct sales representatives covering corporate accounts, E-commerce and telemarketing. Significant Events in 2006 • Technology Migration. We successfully migrated all of our Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA, subscribers to our GSM/GPRS network and decommissioned all of our TDMA network and related assets. • Pre-paid Subscriber Plan Launch. In September 2006, we introduced a new pre-paid subscriber platform in our continental United States segment. As of December 31, 2006, we had 3,782 pre-paid subscribers on this new platform. These plans require subscribers to prepay for usage that is utilized based upon established rates. • Tower Sale. On November 13, 2006, we agreed to sell 69 wireless communications towers located in our continental United States business segment to SBA Towers II LLC for approximately $18.0 million in the aggregate. In addition, in connection with this sale, we will enter into site lease agreements with SBA Towers, in which we will agree to pay SBA Towers monthly rent for the continued use of space that we occupy on the towers prior to their sale. The leases will have an initial term of 10 years, and the monthly rental amount will be subject to certain escalation clauses over the life of the lease. We are required to prepay the first four years’ rent under each site agreement at each closing. The first closing of 48 towers occurred in February 2007, and the remaining towers are expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2007. • Lafayette. Prior to September 30, 2006, we had funded senior loans to Lafayette Communications Company L.L.C., an entrepreneur under Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, guidelines, to finance the acquisition of PCS licenses. Effective September 30, 2006, Lafayette and SunCom consented to dissolve Lafayette and liquidate its assets. Because we had determined that we possessed a controlling financial interest and that we were the primary beneficiary of Lafayette’s operating activities, we had consolidated Lafayette’s operations with our financial statements. Immediately prior to September 30, 2006, the date of Lafayette’s dissolution, our consolidated balance sheet included (i) a non-controlling interest in a variable interest entity of approximately $0.1 million related to the 61% of Lafayette not owned by us and (ii) $0.2 million of cash. Lafayette’s cash is expected to be distributed to its members, including SunCom, during 2007. • Continental United States Reorganization. In January 2006, we announced that SunCom would reorganize its continental United States operations during 2006. This reorganization consolidated and relocated operations and resulted in the termination of approximately 48 positions, or 3% of its workforce. In addition, approximately 13 employees were relocated as a result of this streamlining. These changes were a result of our strategic planning process. Recent Developments • Athens Sale. In August 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell to Cingular Wireless substantially all of the assets of our wireless communications network and FCC licenses relating to our Athens, Georgia market. The closing of the sale occurred on January 31, 2007. The carrying values of the network assets and FCC licenses sold as part of this agreement were $2.5 million and $8.9 million, respectively, and total proceeds for the fair value of the assets sold was approximately $11.8 million. • Debt-for-Equity Exchange. On January 31, 2007, Holdings, SunCom Wireless and SunCom Wireless Investment Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings, or SunCom Investment, and certain holders of the 93/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 and 83/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 of SunCom Wireless, or collectively the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes, entered into an Exchange Agreement, pursuant to which the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes that are parties thereto, who currently hold approximately 95% of the outstanding principal amount of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes, will exchange all of their outstanding SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes (subject to certain contractual constraints) in exchange for an aggregate of approximately 50.4 million shares of Holdings’ Class A common stock. The 50.4 million shares reflect a 1-for-10 reverse stock split to be effected pursuant to the merger described below. This exchange will be effected by SunCom Investment. Immediately prior to the exchange, Holdings will contribute to SunCom Investment the new shares of Class A common stock necessary to complete the exchange. As a result of the exchange, the holders of the outstanding SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes participating in the exchange will receive in the aggregate (in respect of their SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes tendered in the exchange) approximately 87.5% of our outstanding Class A common stock on a fully-diluted basis. The existing holders of Holdings’ Class A common stock will own approximately 12.5% of Holdings’ Class A common stock on a fully-diluted basis following the exchange. 2 Table of Contents The Exchange Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. In connection with the Exchange Agreement, the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes have agreed to “exit consents” that will remove, effective as of the closing of the exchange, substantially all of the restrictive covenants and certain of the events of default from the indentures governing the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes. The Exchange Agreement contains covenants of the parties calling for the board of directors of Holdings to be reconstituted, immediately following the closing of the exchange, to include Michael Kalogris and Scott Anderson, both current directors of Holdings, as well as eight new directors to be designated by various of the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes that are parties to the Exchange Agreement. Also pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, Holdings has agreed, following the closing of the exchange, to pursue strategic alternatives, including the potential sale of substantially all of its business. Under the terms of the Exchange Agreement, Holdings may not initiate or solicit alternative proposals prior to the closing of the exchange, subject to exceptions that permit Holdings’ board of directors to respond to unsolicited proposals and take actions required by their fiduciary duties. The Exchange Agreement and the related merger (described below) are subject to the approval of Holdings’ stockholders holding a majority of the current outstanding shares of Holdings’ Class A common stock. In addition, the consummation of the exchange is subject to various other conditions, including receipt of approval from the FCC and other customary closing conditions. The parties expect the exchange and the related merger to close in the second quarter of 2007. The Exchange Agreement contains termination rights, including Holdings’ right to terminate the Exchange Agreement if Holdings’ board of directors accepts a superior proposal, and provides that, upon the termination of the Exchange Agreement under specified circumstances, Holdings will be required to pay each holder of SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes that is a party to the Exchange Agreement a break-up fee equal to 2% of the total outstanding principal amount of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes held by such holder as of the date of the Exchange Agreement, or approximately $14.2 million in the aggregate. Whether or not the exchange transaction is consummated, Holdings is obligated to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes participating in the exchange, up to $1.0 million in the aggregate. Also on January 31, 2007, simultaneously with the execution of the Exchange Agreement, Holdings entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with SunCom Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings formed for the purpose of entering into the merger agreement, or Merger Sub. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Holdings, with Holdings continuing as the surviving corporation in the merger. In the merger, each issued and outstanding share of Class A common stock of Holdings will be converted into 0.1 share of Class A common stock of Holdings, as the surviving corporation in the merger, plus the contingent right to receive additional shares of Class A common stock of Holdings, as the surviving corporation in the merger, totaling up to a maximum of 3% of the fully-diluted Class A common stock of Holdings (after giving effect to the exchange transaction assuming full participation by the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes) in the aggregate to all holders immediately prior to the merger, in the event Holdings fails to undertake certain actions related to a potential sale of Holdings following the exchange and the merger. Each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Merger Sub will be cancelled in the exchange for no consideration. The merger will be consummated prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Exchange Agreement. The merger is being effected, among other reasons, to implement a 1-for-10 reverse stock split and to ensure that Holdings has sufficient authorized shares of Class A common stock to complete the exchange. The merger is subject to the approval of stockholders of Holdings holding a majority of the current outstanding shares of Class A common stock. In connection with the exchange, J.P. Morgan SBIC LLC and Sixty Wall Street SBIC Fund L.P. transferred all of their shares of Holdings’ Class B non-voting common stock (which constituted all remaining outstanding Class B shares) to their affiliates, J.P. Morgan Capital, L.P. and Sixty Wall Street Fund, L.P., respectively. Such entities then converted all of such shares of Class B non-voting common stock into shares of Class A common stock. These affiliates, together with J.P. Morgan Partners (23A SBIC), L.P., have agreed to vote all of their shares of Class A common stock, which constitutes 23.9% of the outstanding Class A common stock, in favor of the exchange and the merger. In addition, certain holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes who own approximately 16% of the outstanding Class A common stock have agreed in the Exchange Agreement to vote their shares of Class A common stock in favor of the exchange and the merger. Reportable Segments Beginning in 2005, as a result of our acquisition of AT&T Wireless’ business in certain North Carolina markets, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, we began operating as two reportable segments, which we operate and manage as strategic business units. Our reporting segments are based upon geographic area of operation; one segment consists of our operations in the continental United States, and the other consists of our operations in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. For further 3 Table of Contents discussion of our segments, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5”. Continental United States Segment The continental United States segment provides digital wireless communication services in the southeastern United States, including North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Georgia, in an area that covers approximately 14.8 million potential customers. As of December 31, 2006, we had 772,984 wireless subscribers in this operating segment. Our wireless services are mainly distributed through our company-owned retail stores, local retailers, direct sales associates, telemarketing and e-commerce. As of December 31, 2006, there were 86 retail stores and 18 direct sales representatives in this area, and we operated two customer care facilities in Richmond, Virginia and Charleston, South Carolina. Our continental United States network currently markets our GSM/GPRS technology, which supports advanced data technology and allows for greater functionality of phones and greater network efficiency than our preceding technology. In the fourth quarter of 2006, after successfully migrating our TDMA subscribers to GSM/GPRS, we decommissioned our TDMA technology in continental United States segment. As of December 31, 2006, our continental United States network included 2,351 cell sites, two GSM mobile switching centers, three GSM mobile switching center servers and twelve media gateways. Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands Segment We acquired the Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands segment during the fourth quarter of 2004 as a result of the asset exchange agreement we entered into with AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3” for more information. Puerto Rico is a U.S. dollar-denominated and FCC regulated commonwealth of the United States. San Juan, the capital of Puerto Rico, is currently one of the 25 largest U.S. wireless markets in terms of population. Our operations in this segment cover approximately 4.1 million potential customers, and as of December 31, 2006, we had 314,208 subscribers, 25 company-owned SunCom retail stores and four direct sales representatives in our Puerto Rico market. Our Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands network currently markets GSM/GPRS technology. As of December 31, 2006, our Puerto Rico network included 263 cell sites and one GSM mobile switching center. Business Strategy and Competitive Strengths Our objective is to become a leading provider of wireless communications services in the markets we serve by utilizing our competitive strengths and growing our subscriber base. We intend to achieve this objective by pursuing the following business strategies: Continental United States • Provide Enhanced Value. We offer our customers rate plans tailored to their personal needs at competitive prices. Our affordable, simple pricing plans, including the Truth in Wireless Rate Plans, which emphasize no hidden fees, and the UnPlan, which provides essentially unlimited calling from a subscriber’s local calling area for a fixed price, are designed to promote the use of wireless services. In addition, we introduced a new pre-paid subscriber platform in our continental United States segment during the fourth quarter of 2006 to attract potential subscribers with challenged credit. • Attractive Licensed Area. We believe that we can continue to increase our subscriber base by penetrating our existing markets. Our markets have favorable demographic characteristics for wireless communications services. According to the 2005 Paul Kagan Associates Report, our continental United States segment includes 9 of the top 100 markets in the country with population densities that are higher than the national average. • Network Quality. We are committed to making the capital investment required to maintain and operate a superior, high-quality network. Within our continental United States segment, we offer personal communications service to a population of approximately 14.8 million people in 27 markets. We operate a comprehensive network, which includes included 2,351 cell sites, two GSM mobile switching centers, three GSM mobile switching center servers and twelve media gateways, which all offer GSM/GPRS technology. Our network is compatible with the networks of Cingular Wireless, T-Mobile and other wireless communications service providers that use GSM/GPRS technology. • Deliver Quality Customer Service. We believe that superior customer service is a critical element in attracting and retaining customers. Our point-of-sale activation process is designed to ensure quick and easy service initiation, including customer qualification. Through 365 customer care representatives, our interactive voice response system, or IVR, and our state-of-the-art customer care facilities in Richmond, Virginia and Charleston, South Carolina, we emphasize proactive and responsive customer care, including rapid call-answer times, welcome packages and anniversary calls. 4 Table of Contents Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands • Network Quality. Within our Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands segment, we offer personal communications service to a population of approximately 4.1 million people in three markets. We operate a comprehensive network, which includes 263 cell sites and one GSM mobile switching center, which offer GSM/GPRS digital technology. Our network is compatible with the networks of Cingular Wireless and other wireless communications service providers that use GSM/GPRS technology. • Provide Enhanced Features. According to our market research, a significant portion of the subscribers within our Puerto Rico segment utilize their wireless handset as their primary means of communication. As such, our advertising emphasizes that our rate plans include such features as unlimited local calling, text and picture messaging, e-mail and Internet capabilities. These features are designed to promote the use of wireless services within our Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands segment. • Attractive Licensed Area. We believe that we can continue to increase our subscriber base by penetrating our Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands markets that we acquired from Cingular Wireless in December 2004. According to the 2005 Paul Kagan Associates Report, San Juan, one of the three Puerto Rico markets in which we operate, is one of the top 25 largest U.S. markets in terms of population. • Deliver Quality Customer Service. Our point-of-sale activation process is designed to ensure quick and easy service initiation, including customer qualification. Through our 171 customer care representatives, our IVR system and our state-of-the-art customer care facility in Caguas, Puerto Rico, we emphasize proactive and responsive customer care, including rapid call-answer times, welcome packages and anniversary calls. Although we outsource our Puerto Rico customer care facility to Atento de Puerto Rico, we manage the operations of this customer care center. Sales, Marketing and Distribution Our sales strategy is to utilize multiple distribution channels to minimize customer acquisition costs and to maximize penetration within our licensed service area. Our distribution channels include a network of company-owned retail stores, a direct sales force for corporate accounts, independent agent retailers, telemarketing and e-commerce. During 2006, we focused on increasing our retail distribution in the North Carolina markets that we acquired from AT&T Wireless in December 2004. • Company-Owned Retail Stores. We make extensive use of company-owned retail stores for the distribution and sale of our handsets and services. We believe that company-owned retail stores offer a considerable competitive advantage by providing a strong local presence, which is required to achieve high retail penetration in suburban and rural areas and the lowest customer acquisition cost. We had 111 company-owned SunCom retail stores open as of December 31, 2006. Of these 111 stores, 86 were located within the continental United States and 25 were located in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. • Direct Sales. We focus our direct sales force on corporate users. As of December 31, 2006, our direct corporate sales force consisted of 22 dedicated professionals targeting wireless decision-makers within mid-sized corporations. Of these 22 direct sales associates, 18 were located within the continental United States and four were located in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. • Agent Distribution. We have distribution agreements with strategically-aligned regional agent retailers. These agents have 389 distribution points in the continental United States and 254 distribution points in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands as at December 31, 2006. • Direct Marketing. We use direct marketing efforts such as direct mail and telemarketing to generate customer leads. Telemarketing sales allow us to maintain low selling costs and to sell additional features or customized services. • Website. We have established an online store on our website, http://www.suncom.com. Our online store conveys our marketing message and generates customers through online purchasing. We deliver all of the information a customer requires to make a purchasing decision on our website. Customers are able to choose rate plans, features, handsets and accessories. The online store provides a secure environment for transactions, and customers purchasing through the online store encounter a transaction experience similar to that of customers purchasing service through other channels. 5 Table of Contents We have developed our marketing strategy based on market research within our continental United States and Puerto Rico markets. We believe that our simple, attractive pricing plans, network reliability, targeted advertising and superior customer care will allow us to increase our subscriber base by maintaining customer satisfaction, thereby reducing customer turnover. The following are key components of our marketing strategy: • Pricing. Our pricing plans are competitive and straightforward. We offer our customers large packages of minutes within our regional calling areas plus roaming access to the nation’s two largest GSM/GPRS networks. Most of our rate plans allow customers to make and receive calls without paying additional roaming or long distance charges within our regional calling area. It is by virtue of our extensive network and roaming arrangements with roaming partners, that we can offer such competitive rate plans. Our Truth in Wireless Rate Plans and the UnPlan, which provides essentially unlimited calling from a subscriber’s local calling area at a fixed price, are two examples of such rate plans. In addition, we introduced a pre-paid platform in our continental United States segment to service potential subscribers with challenged credit. • Network Quality Our commitment to making the capital investment necessary to maintain and operate a high-quality network allows us to provide extensive coverage within our markets. • Advertising. We believe our most successful marketing strategy is to establish a strong local presence in each of our markets. We are directing our media and promotional efforts at the local communities we serve with advertisements in local publications and sponsorship of local and regional events. We combine our local efforts with mass marketing strategies and tactics to build the SunCom brand locally. Our media effort includes television, radio, newspaper, magazine, outdoor and Internet advertisements to promote our brand. In addition, we use newspaper and radio advertising and our web page to promote specific product offerings and direct marketing programs for targeted audiences. Network Infrastructure The principal objective for the build-out of our network was to maximize service levels within targeted demographic segments and geographic areas. Our network, offering GSM/GPRS technology, serves 27 markets in the continental United States by utilizing 2,351 cell sites, two GSM mobile switching centers, three GSM mobile switching center servers and twelve media gateways. We also serve three markets in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands by utilizing 263 cell sites and one GSM mobile switching center. Our digital wireless network connects to local and long distance exchange carriers. We have interconnection agreements with telephone companies operating or providing services in the area where we are currently operating our digital personal communications services network. We use AT&T as our long distance carrier. Network Operations We have agreements for switched interconnection/backhaul, long distance, roaming, network monitoring and information technology services in order to effectively maintain, operate and expand our network. Switched Interconnection/Backhaul. Our network is connected to the public switched telephone network to facilitate the origination and termination of traffic on our network. Long Distance. We have a wholesale long distance agreement with AT&T that provides cost-effective rates for long distance services. Roaming. Through our agreements with Cingular Wireless and T-Mobile, our customers have roaming capabilities on Cingular Wireless’ and T-Mobile’s nationwide networks. Further, we have established roaming agreements with other domestic and international wireless carriers, including in-region roaming agreements to enhance coverage where necessary in our service areas. Network Monitoring Systems. Our network monitoring system provides around-the-clock surveillance of our entire network. The network operations center is equipped with sophisticated systems that constantly monitor the status of all switches and cell sites, identify failures and dispatch technicians to resolve issues. Operations support systems are utilized to constantly monitor system quality and identify devices that fail to meet performance thresholds. These same platforms generate statistics on system performance such as dropped calls, blocked calls and handoff failures. Our network operations center located in Richmond, Virginia performs maintenance on common network elements such as voice mail, home location registers and short message centers. 6 Table of Contents Network Digital Technology Our network utilizes GSM/GPRS. During 2006, we successfully migrated all of our TDMA subscribers to GSM/GPRS technology to provide more advanced data and voice services. In addition, our GSM/GPRS deployment has enabled us to earn roaming revenue from other wireless carriers who are selling GSM/GPRS handsets. GSM/GPRS technology is currently used by two of the largest wireless communications companies in the United States: Cingular Wireless and T-Mobile. We decommissioned our Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands TDMA network technology in the first quarter of 2006 and our continental United States TDMA network technology in the fourth quarter of 2006. Federal Regulation The wireless telecommunications industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation at the federal level and, to a smaller degree, the state and local levels. The information disclosed below is applicable to our licenses in the continental United States as well as Puerto Rico, unless specifically noted otherwise. We are subject to, among other federal statutes, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or Communications Act, and the associated rules, regulations and policies promulgated by the FCC. Through the Communications Act, the FCC regulates aspects of the licensing, construction, operation, acquisition and sale of personal communications services and cellular systems in the United States. Many FCC requirements impose certain restrictions on our business that could have the effect of increasing our costs. However, at this time, the FCC does not regulate the rates of wireless communications services, and the Communications Act preempts state and local rate and entry regulation of our wireless services, as described below. PCS and cellular systems are subject to certain Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, regulations governing the location, lighting, and construction of transmitter towers and antennas, and may be subject to federal environmental laws and the FCC’s environmental regulations. Also, we use common carrier point-to-point microwave facilities to connect the transmitter, receivers, and signaling equipment for some PCS or cellular sites, and to link them to the main switching office. The FCC licenses these facilities separately, and they are subject to regulation regarding technical and service parameters. Additionally, as discussed below, we are subject to certain state and local regulations and approvals, including state or local zoning and land use regulations. Licensing and Build-Out of Cellular and PCS Systems. We hold a variety of cellular, PCS and microwave licenses, as authorized by the FCC. A broadband PCS system operates under a protected geographic service area license granted by the FCC for a particular market on one of six frequency blocks allocated for broadband PCS. Broadband PCS systems generally are used for two-way voice and high-volume data applications. Narrowband PCS systems, in contrast, are used for non-voice applications, such as paging and low-volume data service, and are separately licensed. The FCC has segmented the United States into PCS markets, resulting in 51 large regions, referred to as major trading areas, which are comprised of 493 smaller regions, referred to as basic trading areas. The FCC initially auctioned and awarded two broadband PCS licenses for each major trading area and four licenses for each basic trading area. The two major trading area licenses authorize the use of 30 megahertz of spectrum. One of the basic trading area licenses is for 30 megahertz of spectrum, and the other three are for 10 megahertz each. The FCC permits licensees to split their licenses and assign a portion, on either a geographic or frequency basis or both, to a third party. Two cellular licenses, 25 megahertz each, are also available in each market. Cellular markets are defined as either metropolitan or rural service areas, and do not correspond to the broadband PCS markets. Specialized mobile radio service licenses can also be used for two-way voice applications. In total, eight or more licenses suitable for two-way voice and high volume data applications are available in a given geographic area. All PCS licenses generally have 10-year terms, at the end of which they must be renewed. The FCC will award a renewal expectancy to a PCS licensee that has: • provided substantial service during its past license term; and • substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. PCS licensees generally must satisfy certain coverage requirements. In our case, we must construct facilities sufficient to offer radio signal coverage to one-third of the population in each of our service areas within five years of the original license grants, and to two-thirds of the population within ten years. Alternatively, we can make a showing of “substantial service,” a term which is not precisely defined under the FCC’s rules, although the FCC has established a “safe harbor” under which a mobile licensee will meet the substantial service requirement if it provides coverage to at least 75% of the geographic area of at least 20% of the rural areas within the licensed area. Licensees that fail to meet the coverage requirements may be subject to forfeiture of their licenses. We have met the five-year construction deadline for all of our PCS licenses. We have also met all of our ten-year construction deadlines that have come due, and these licenses have been successfully renewed. We currently hold another seven PCS licenses with ten-year construction deadlines that occur in December 2007. We have satisfied the coverage requirement for 7 Table of Contents five of these licenses, and we plan to make a “substantial service” showing for the other two. We cannot be certain that the FCC will accept our substantial service showings for these two licenses. We hold other PCS licenses, each obtained through the partitioning or disaggregation of an existing license, where the coverage obligation for the entire license area was assumed by the initial licensee. Four such licenses are due for renewal in April 2007. We expect the renewal applications to be granted. In 2003, the FCC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on proposals to expand licensee build-out requirements. Among the proposals examined were proposals to adopt additional coverage requirements beyond the initial 10-year license term and proposals to reclaim spectrum that is not in use by a defined period of time. In July 2004, the FCC acknowledged a preference for market-based mechanisms to facilitate spectrum access, but also stated that it may be appropriate at some time to revert to a re-licensing approach if spectrum is not being used. The FCC therefore sought further comment on possible re-licensing approaches and construction obligations for current and future licensees who hold licenses beyond their first term. The FCC has not issued an order in this proceeding. Like PCS, cellular radio licenses also generally expire after a 10-year term and are renewable for periods of 10 years upon application to the FCC. Under current policies, the FCC will grant incumbent cellular licensees the same renewal expectancy granted to PCS licensees. Our one cellular license, which covers the Myrtle Beach area, is not subject to any further coverage requirements. We expect to meet all future application requirements with respect to the renewal of our cellular license. Nevertheless, this license could be revoked for cause and our license renewal application denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. FCC rules provide that competing renewal applications for cellular licenses will be considered in comparative hearings, and they establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. Spectrum Caps and Spectrum Leasing. Prior to 2003, the FCC had specific spectrum aggregation limits, known as spectrum caps, for attributable interests in broadband PCS, specialized mobile radio services and cellular licensees in any geographical area. Although there is no longer a specified limit on spectrum holdings, the FCC evaluates commercial wireless transactions on a case-by-case basis to determine whether such transactions will result in too much concentration in wireless markets. Although the FCC has permitted licensees to own up to 80 megahertz of spectrum in particular markets, recent transactions indicate that the FCC currently uses a “soft” spectrum cap of 70 megahertz when evaluating the competitive impact of a proposed transaction. FCC rules permit spectrum licensees to enter leasing agreements with third parties and allow wireless licensees, like us, to lease their spectrum to third parties on either a short-term or long-term basis. Two leasing options are available. The first, which requires prior FCC notice but not prior FCC approval, allows parties to lease spectrum as long as the licensee retains a certain degree of control over the license. The second, which requires prior FCC approval, allows parties to lease spectrum where the lessee is in actual control of the license, although the licensee retains legal control. FCC rules also provide for “private commons” spectrum access arrangements under which spectrum licensees can make their spectrum available for use by advanced technologies in a manner similar to that by which unlicensed users gain access to unlicensed spectrum. We currently do not lease or otherwise make available any spectrum under any option. New Spectrum Opportunities and Advanced Wireless Data Services. In addition to the spectrum currently licensed for PCS, cellular and specialized mobile radio services, the FCC has allocated additional spectrum for wireless carrier use. Although this spectrum may be used by new companies that would compete directly with us, this spectrum could also be acquired by existing wireless companies and used to provide advanced or “third–generation” data services, such as those we plan to offer over our GSM/GPRS network. This new spectrum includes 60 megahertz in the upper and lower 700 megahertz bands that are currently used by television broadcasters during their transition to digital television (ending in February 2009); 90 megahertz in the 1710-1755 and 2110-2155 megahertz bands that currently have both governmental and non-governmental users, including the multipoint distribution service; and 20 megahertz of spectrum that includes the so-called H block at 1915-1920 megahertz paired with 1995-2000 megahertz, and the so-called J block at 2020-2025 megahertz paired with 2175-2180 megahertz (which are currently used by unlicensed PCS, mobile satellite services, broadcast auxiliary service, and fixed service users and licensees). The FCC auctioned the 90 megahertz of spectrum in the 1710-1755 and 2110-2155 megahertz bands in Auction 66, which concluded on September 18, 2006 with 104 bidders winning 1,087 licenses. SunCom did not participate in Auction 66. In February 2006, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to reform its designated entity rules for upcoming auctions, including Auction 66. The FCC adopted new rules in April 2006. Although the FCC did not adopt its proposal to prohibit incumbent wireless carriers from partnering with designated entities, the new rules do prohibit a designated entity from leasing or reselling more than 50% of its spectrum (on a per-license basis) to other entities. In addition, any entity leasing 25% or more of the spectrum of a license held by a designated entity will have its revenues attributed to the designated entity. The new rules are also more restrictive regarding unjust enrichment payments, which must be paid when a designated entity loses its status or sells a license to a non-designated entity. The following repayment schedule now applies: 100% of the benefit in the first 5 years; 75% in years 6 and 7; 50% in years 8 and 9; and 25% in year 10. The new rules are subject to pending petitions for reconsideration and a pending appeal in the Third Circuit. A second notice of proposed rulemaking to consider additional changes to the designated 8 Table of Contents entity rules remains pending. We are not currently partnered with a designated entity. In addition, we cannot predict how these new rules could affect competition for new spectrum in future FCC auctions, or how they could affect our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to partner with designated entities in the future. The FCC has also changed the spectrum allocation available to certain mobile satellite service operators to allow them to integrate an ancillary terrestrial component into their networks, thereby enabling mobile satellite service operators to provide terrestrial wireless services to consumers in spectrum previously reserved only for satellite services. It is unclear what impact, if any, these allocations will have on our current operations. In June 2004, the FCC announced it would auction over 200 broadband PCS licenses beginning January 12, 2005. The auction start date was later extended to January 26, 2005. These licenses were returned to the FCC as a result of license cancellations or terminations and the list of licenses available for auction included licenses within our current service area. The auction rules restricted parties that did not qualify under the FCC’s rules as a “designated entity” (a small business), including us, from bidding on some of the licenses. We did not participate in the auction, but Lafayette, a company in which we held a 39% interest (see Item 1 “Business—Significant Events in 2006—Lafayette” for more information), participated in the auction as a designated entity and obtained one license. We purchased this license from Lafayette in 2006 and immediately re-sold it to Carolina West Wireless, Inc. The FCC has scheduled another auction of returned or unsold licenses for May 16, 2007 (Auction 71). A total of 38 broadband PCS licenses will be available at the auction. One of those licenses is for the Asheville-Hendersonville, North Carolina market, which overlaps with SunCom’s service territory. The auction could therefore result in additional competition in that market. Transfers and Assignments of Cellular and PCS Licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules require the FCC’s prior approval of the assignment or transfer of control of a license for a PCS or cellular system. However, in an Order released in September 2004, the FCC determined that it will forbear from the prior approval requirement in certain situations. The new rules provide for immediate processing of transfer and assignment applications where the parties certify that they comply with foreign ownership and other basic licensee qualification requirements and that the proposed transaction will not result in overlap with other spectrum interests of the transferee, is not subject to transfer restrictions under the FCC’s designated entity rules, does not require any waivers of FCC rules, and does not involve any licenses subject to pending revocation or termination proceedings. Transactions that meet these criteria will be eligible for overnight electronic processing. Non-controlling interests in an entity that holds an FCC license generally may be bought or sold without FCC approval. We may also be required to obtain approval of the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, as well as state or local regulatory authorities having competent jurisdiction, if we sell or acquire PCS or cellular interests over a certain size. Foreign Ownership. Under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee’s capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity, up to 25% of that entity’s capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% level may be allowed should the FCC find such higher levels not inconsistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could revoke our FCC licenses, although we could seek a declaratory ruling from the FCC allowing the foreign ownership or take other actions to reduce our foreign ownership percentage to avoid the loss of our licenses. We have no knowledge of any present foreign ownership that exceeds these limitations in violation of the FCC’s restrictions. However, we intend to file a petition for declaratory ruling in connection with our proposed debt-for-equity exchange because of the proposed post-exchange foreign ownership levels. See Item 1 “Business—Recent Developments—Debt-for-Equity Exchange” for more information about the exchange transaction. Roaming. The FCC opened a proceeding in 2005 to consider whether it should modify its roaming rules, including whether wireless roaming obligations should extend to the transmission of data communications and whether carriers should be allowed to enter into preferential roaming agreements with specific roaming partners or affiliates. We have existing roaming agreements with several roaming partners, and the outcome of this proceeding could impact our roaming relationships. Enhanced 911 Services. Commercial mobile radio service providers are required to transmit 911 calls and relay a caller’s automatic number identification and cell site to designated public safety answering points. This ability to relay a telephone number and originating cell site is known as Phase I enhanced 911, or E-911, deployment. FCC regulations also require wireless carriers to identify within certain parameters the location of 911 callers by adoption of either network-based or handset-based technologies. This more exact location reporting is known as Phase II E-911, and the FCC has adopted specific rules governing the accuracy of location information and deployment of the location capability. We are deploying a network-based technology to 9 Table of Contents provide Phase II service. Current FCC rules do not specify the size of the geographic areas over which location accuracy measurements must be calculated. In October 2004, an association of public safety officials requested the FCC to clarify that carriers must satisfy the location accuracy requirements for each local public safety answering point area it serves, rather than averaging the results over a larger area, such as the carrier’s entire network. An FCC advisory council, however, has recommended that accuracy measurements be reported on a statewide basis. The FCC has not yet ruled on this issue. Depending on the FCC’s ultimate decision, we could be required to incur additional costs to improve our location accuracy capabilities in certain areas. FCC rules originally required carriers to provide Phase I service as of April 1, 1998, or within six months of a request from a public safety answering point, whichever is later, and to provide Phase II service as of October 1, 2001, or within six months of a request from a public safety answering point, whichever is later. Our Phase II service initial deadline was extended by the FCC to March 1, 2003, as was the deadline for other regional and local carriers. The six-month time frames for beginning Phase I or Phase II service do not apply if a public safety answering point does not have the equipment and other facilities necessary to receive and use the provided data. Public safety answering points and wireless carriers are permitted to extend these implementation timelines by mutual agreement. We voluntarily file E911 quarterly reports with the FCC to identify our ongoing efforts to implement Phase I and Phase II service. Radiofrequency Emissions. FCC guidelines adopted in 1996 limit the permissible human exposure to radiofrequency radiation from transmitters and other facilities. In December 2001, the FCC’s Office of Engineering and Technology, or OET, dismissed a Petition for Inquiry filed by EMR Network to initiate a proceeding to revise the FCC’s radio frequency guidelines. In August 2003, the full FCC upheld the OET, and EMR Network subsequently challenged the FCC’s decision in federal court. In December 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed the FCC decision, and in June 2005, the United States Supreme Court declined to consider a petition for a writ of certiorari filed by EMR Network seeking to have the lower court’s decision overturned. In June 2003, the FCC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on proposed amendments to the current regulations relating to the compliance of transmitter facilities with radiofrequency guidelines and to procedures for evaluating radiofrequency exposure from mobile devices, such as handsets. This Notice remains pending, and it is not clear what effect, if any, any amendments to such regulations would have on our business. Media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and/or may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless handsets, which would decrease demand for our services. However, reports and fact sheets from the British National Radiological Protection Board and Swedish Radiation Protection Authority released in 2004, the National Cancer Institute released in January 2002, the American Health Foundation released in December 2000 and the Danish Cancer Society released in February 2001, found no evidence that cell phones cause cancer, although some of the reports indicated that further study might be appropriate. Likewise, an October 2005 study published by researchers at the Washington University School of Medicine found that the electromagnetic radiation produced by cell phones does not promote cancer in mouse, hamster or human cells. However, another study released by European researchers in December 2004 said that exposure to radio frequency emissions damaged DNA in cells in laboratory tests conducted over a period of four years. Although the researchers did not then link radio frequency emissions to adverse health effects, they did call for further study. Most recently, a study released in 2006 by the Swedish National Institute for Working Life found a link between heavy mobile phone use and brain tumors. A month later, the Food and Drug Administration announced that it would review the health effects of wireless phones. Additional studies of radio frequency emissions are ongoing. The ultimate findings of these studies will not be known until they are completed and made public. Meanwhile, the National Cancer Institute has cautioned that all such studies have limitations, given the relatively short amount of time cellular phones have been widely available. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission issued a consumer alert in February 2002 for cell phone users who want to limit their exposure to radio frequency emissions from their cell phones. The alert advises, among other things, that cell phone users should limit use of their cell phones to short conversations and avoid cell phone use in areas where the signal is poor. Several lawsuits seeking to force wireless carriers to supply headsets with phones and to compensate consumers who have purchased radiation-reducing devices were dismissed by the courts in 2002 because of a lack of scientific evidence, but other lawsuits remain pending. We cannot predict the impact of these or other health related lawsuits on our business. Interconnection. Under amendments to the Communications Act enacted in 1996, all telecommunications carriers, including PCS and cellular licensees, have a duty to interconnect with other carriers and local exchange carriers have additional specific obligations to interconnect. The amendments and the FCC’s implementing rules modified the previous regime for interconnection between local exchange carriers and wireless communications services providers, such as us, and adopted a series of requirements that have benefited the wireless industry. These requirements included compensation to carriers for terminating traffic originated by other carriers, a ban on any charges to other carriers by originating carriers, and specific rules governing the prices that can be charged for terminating compensation. Under the rules, prices for termination of traffic and certain other functions provided by local exchange carriers are set using a methodology known as “total element long run incremental cost,” or TELRIC. TELRIC is a forward-looking cost model that sets prices based on what the cost would be to provide network elements 10 Table of Contents or facilities over the most efficient technology and network configuration. The statute also permits carriers to appeal public utility decisions implementing the statute and rules to United States District Courts, rather than state courts. As a result of these FCC rules, the charges that cellular and PCS operators pay to interconnect their traffic to the public switched telephone network have declined significantly from pre-1996 levels. The initial FCC interconnection rules material to our operations have become final and unappealable following a May 2002 Supreme Court decision affirming the rules. Subsequently, the FCC issued a clarification of its interconnection rules, initiated a rulemaking to modify the TELRIC rules and initiated a third proceeding which, collectively, have created some uncertainty. More specifically: • In August 2003, the FCC released a clarification of its TELRIC rules that could increase our costs of interconnection. • In September 2003, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to consider broader modifications to the TELRIC rules, which could increase or decrease our costs of interconnection. This proceeding remains pending. • In 2001, the FCC initiated a proceeding that could greatly modify the current regime of payments for interconnection. In February 2005, the FCC sought comment on seven specific interconnection proposals filed by different industry groups and others in the proceeding, which have varying impacts on wireless carriers. It sought comment on an additional reform proposal in 2006, referred to as the Missoula Plan, which would increase end-user charges, make a series of adjustments to interconnection payments, and preempt state authority over intrastate access charges. The FCC also sought comment in 2006 on a separate proposal to address phantom traffic, which refers to calls that cannot be billed properly because they are improperly routed, mislabeled or unlabeled. • In February 2005, the FCC also determined that local exchange carriers may no longer file “wireless termination tariffs” regarding termination rates to be charged to wireless carriers as part of the interconnection negotiation process. In addition, key members of Congress have expressed strong interest in reviewing and modifying the current interconnection system of payments during the next two years. If the FCC or Congress modifies the current regime of payments for interconnection, our costs for interconnection could change. Universal Service Funds. The FCC and many states have established “universal service” programs to ensure affordable, quality local telecommunications services for all U.S. residents. Under the FCC’s rules, wireless providers are potentially eligible to receive universal service subsidies; however, they also are required to contribute to both federal and state universal service funds. The FCC rules require telecommunications carriers generally (subject to limited exemptions) to contribute funding to existing universal service programs for high-cost carriers and low-income customers and to new universal service programs to support services to schools, libraries and rural health care providers. In December 2002 and January 2003, the FCC released orders that increased, from 15% to 28.5%, the percentage of revenues that wireless providers must subject to universal service contributions to avoid having to calculate those contributions based on actual interstate traffic levels, and that required wireless providers to elect whether or not to use this “safe harbor” on a company-wide basis. In 2006, the FCC increased the percentage of revenues that wireless providers must subject to universal service contributions to 37.1% to use the “safe harbor” method. The FCC also released an accompanying Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that seeks comment on whether the FCC should eliminate or raise further the wireless safe harbor. As a result of operating a regional footprint, we utilize actual interstate traffic rates, which are historically lower than the safe harbor percentages, to calculate contributions that are required to be submitted to the universal service fund. The FCC has been reviewing wireless carriers’ continued eligibility to receive universal service funding, as well as the appropriate amount of funding for various “eligible telecommunications carriers,” in two proceedings. In February 2004, the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service issued a recommended decision proposing that the FCC modify the current universal service rules. If adopted, the proposals would limit support to a single connection per customer and would narrow the circumstances under which a new service provider would be able to qualify for support. In June 2004, the FCC asked for public comment on the Federal-State Joint Board recommended decision, and in February 2005 the FCC decided that wireless carriers should remain eligible to receive universal service fund payments and that there should be no “primary line restriction” or limitation of support to a single line. The FCC did tighten the standards for its designation of wireless carriers as eligible to receive universal support by imposing new eligibility requirements, public interest determinations, and annual certification and reporting requirements, and the FCC encouraged states to adopt similar requirements as part of their universal service designation processes. In a second proceeding launched in 2004, the Federal-State Joint Board is considering the basis and amount of universal service support that telecommunications carriers should receive, including whether the current funding structure should be replaced with a forward-looking cost approach and whether wireless carrier support should be based on wireline incumbent costs or wireless carrier costs. Because we are now receiving universal service funding in Puerto Rico, any changes could limit our 11 Table of Contents ability to continue to receive some or all of the universal service support that we are receiving in Puerto Rico, or to receive such funding in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia, where we have applied for Eligible Telecommunications Carrier status. Regardless of our ability to receive universal service funding for the supported services we provide, we are required to fund these federal programs and may also be required to contribute to state universal service programs. Outage Reporting. On August 4, 2004, the FCC adopted new rules that require wireless providers to report to the FCC about significant disruptions, network degradations or outages to their systems. Under the new rules, we are required to report to the FCC whenever we have a significant network disruption that lasts for at least 30 minutes and the number of end-user minutes potentially affected is at least 900,000. We also must report significant network problems that impact 911 usage or service at airports, nuclear power plants and key government and military facilities or when critical transmission and network control technologies are disrupted. Several parties have petitioned the FCC to eliminate or modify these new rules and those petitions remain pending. Electronic Surveillance. The FCC has adopted rules requiring providers of wireless services that are interconnected to the public switched telephone network to provide functions to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials. The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA, requires telecommunications carriers to modify their equipment, facilities, and services to ensure that they are able to comply with authorized electronic surveillance. These modifications were required to be completed by June 2000, unless carriers were granted temporary waivers, which we and many other wireless providers requested. Our switched voice services are now CALEA compliant. Additional wireless carrier obligations to assist law enforcement agencies were adopted in response to the September 11 terrorist attacks as part of the USA Patriot Act. In August 2004, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Declaratory Ruling proposing new rules governing CALEA. The notice largely endorsed proposals by federal law enforcement agencies. In September 2005, the FCC released an order that determined, as proposed, that facilities-based providers of broadband Internet access and interconnected voice over Internet protocol services are covered by CALEA, and that such services must be CALEA-compliant by May 2007. We expect to be able to satisfy this deadline, although software vendor delays could affect our ability to do so. In 2006, the FCC issued an order adopting many of its remaining proposals. These new rules will greatly limit the availability of waivers from the CALEA rules and shift costs for complying with CALEA from law enforcement agencies to service providers and customers. These changes could increase our costs and/or increase the likelihood of FCC enforcement action should we not be able to satisfy all CALEA requirements. Telephone Numbers. Like other telecommunications carriers, we must have access to telephone numbers to serve our customers and to meet demand for new service. The FCC has adopted rules that could affect SunCom’s access to and use of telephone numbers. The most significant FCC rules are intended to promote the efficient use of telephone numbers by all telecommunications carriers. Under these rules: • Carriers must meet specified number usage thresholds before they can obtain additional telephone numbers. The current threshold requires carriers to show that they are using 75% of all numbers assigned to them in a particular rate center. The FCC has adopted a “safety valve” mechanism that could permit carriers to obtain telephone numbers under certain circumstances even if they do not meet the usage thresholds. • Carriers must share blocks of telephone numbers, a requirement known as “number pooling.” Under number pooling, numbers previously assigned in blocks of 10,000 are assigned in blocks of 1,000, which significantly increases the efficiency of number assignment. In connection with the number pooling requirement, the FCC also adopted rules intended to increase the availability of blocks of 1,000 numbers, including a requirement that numbers be assigned sequentially within existing blocks of 10,000 numbers. • Carriers must provide detailed reports on their number usage, and the reports are subject to third-party audits. Carriers that do not comply with reporting requirements are ineligible to receive numbering resources. • States may implement technology-specific and service-specific area code “overlays” to relieve the exhaustion of existing area codes, but only with specific FCC permission. The FCC also has shown a willingness to delegate to the states a larger role in number conservation. Examples of state conservation methods include number pooling and number rationing. Since 1999, the FCC has granted interim number conservation authority to several state commissions, including North Carolina and South Carolina, states within our operating region. The FCC’s number conservation rules could benefit or harm us and other telecommunications carriers. If the rules achieve the goal of reducing demand for telephone numbers, then the costs associated with potential changes to the telephone numbering system will be delayed or avoided. The rules may, however, affect individual carriers by making it more difficult for them to 12 Table of Contents obtain and use telephone numbers. In particular, number pooling imposes significant costs on carriers to modify their systems and operations. In addition, technology-specific and service-specific area code overlays could result in segregation of wireless providers, including us, into separate area codes, which could have negative effects on customer perception of wireless service. Wireless providers are also required to implement telephone number portability, which enables customers to keep their telephone numbers when they change carriers. Wireless number portability was implemented for the top 100 metropolitan statistical areas in November 2003, and generally became available in the rest of the country in May 2004. Under the FCC’s rules, numbers may be ported to and from both wireless and landline providers. Thus, while portability makes it easier for customers to change wireless providers, it also makes it easier for them to switch from landline to wireless service. In September 2004, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on proposals to reduce the time interval for porting numbers between wireless and landline carriers. If adopted, the reduced porting period would make it more attractive for customers to switch their service from landline to wireless providers. In January 2007, the FCC issued a public notice that requested comment on a petition for declaratory ruling by T-Mobile and Sprint Nextel regarding the FCC’s number portability rules. In particular, the petition asks that the FCC clarify that carriers otherwise obligated to port numbers may not obstruct or delay the process by demanding more information than is necessary to validate a customer’s request and port the number. If granted, some customers would be able to switch more quickly from wireline to wireless providers. Environmental Processing. The antenna structures we use are subject to the FCC’s rules implementing the National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA, and the National Historic Preservation Act, or the NHPA. Under these rules, any structure that may significantly affect the human environment or that may affect historic properties may not be constructed until the wireless provider has filed an environmental assessment and obtained approval from the FCC. Processing of environmental assessments can delay construction of antenna facilities, particularly if the FCC determines that additional information is required or if there is community opposition. In October 2004, the FCC released a Report and Order adopting a national agreement governing review of towers under the NHPA. The agreement defines when historic preservation analysis is required and not required for new and modified towers, creates new procedures for historic preservation review, including deadlines for reviewing entities, and outlines procedures for communications with Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian groups. In October 2005, the FCC released a declaratory ruling that further details and clarifies those procedures. With regard to environmental policies affecting antenna structures, the FCC released a Notice of Inquiry in August 2003 on the potential effects of towers on migratory birds and in December 2004, the FCC sought comment on a report on this subject that was filed in the Notice of Inquiry proceeding. While this proceeding remains pending, environmental groups filed a petition with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in April 2005, seeking to force the FCC to modify its environmental processing rules to address issues under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The groups also filed a petition for NEPA compliance with the FCC. After the FCC dismissed the petition in part and denied it in part, the District of Columbia Circuit also dismissed the court petition as moot. In November 2006, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that seeks comment on measures to reduce the number of instances in which migratory birds collide with communications towers. The FCC tentatively concluded that medium intensity white strobe lights are the “preferred system” for most communications towers. It is unclear at this time what other measures, if any, the FCC might adopt. SunCom has entered into an agreement to sell all of our remaining communications towers in our continental United States segment. Rate Integration. The FCC has determined that the interstate, interexchange offerings (commonly referred to as long distance) of wireless carriers are subject to the interstate, interexchange rate averaging and integration provisions of the Communications Act. Rate averaging and integration requires carriers to average interstate long distance wireless communications service rates between high cost and urban areas, and to offer comparable rates to all customers, including those living in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, however, rejected the FCC’s application of these requirements to wireless carriers, remanding the issue to the FCC to further consider whether wireless carriers should be required to average and integrate their long distance rates across all U.S. territories. The FCC has stated that, pending the outcome of additional proceedings to review the matter, the rate averaging and integration rules are not applicable to wireless carriers. Privacy. The FCC has adopted rules limiting the use of customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, by telecommunications carriers, including us, in marketing a broad range of telecommunications and other services to their customers and the customers of affiliated companies. The rules give wireless carriers discretion to use CPNI, without customer approval, to market all customer equipment and information services used in connection with the provision of wireless services. The FCC also allows all telephone companies to use CPNI to solicit lost customers. FCC rules require that customer permission be obtained affirmatively to use such information to market non-communications services or to provide such information to unrelated third parties, but give carriers flexibility in obtaining that consent. In late 2005, the FCC launched an investigation of carrier 13 Table of Contents compliance with the CPNI rules. In February 2006, along with all other carriers, we were required to submit a statement to the FCC certifying that we are in compliance with the rules. Also in February 2006, the FCC launched a rulemaking proceeding to consider new rules aimed at strengthening the protection afforded to CPNI. The FCC tentatively concluded that carriers should file annual compliance certificates along with a summary of all consumer complaints received in the past year regarding unauthorized release of CPNI and a summary of actions taken against third parties who attempt to obtain CPNI through fraudulent means. The FCC is expected to adopt final rules in 2007. Billing. Prior to 2005, the FCC imposed two fundamental billing rules on wireless carriers: (i) clearly identify the name of the service provider for each charge; and (ii) display a toll-free inquiry number for customers on all “paper copy” bills. In May 2004, the FCC released a Public Notice seeking comment on a petition filed by the National Association of State Utility Consumer Advocates, or NASUCA, asking the FCC to prohibit wireless and other carriers from using line-item charges on customer bills to recover their costs for various federal, state and local regulatory obligations. In response to the NASUCA petition, the FCC issued a March 2005 order that does not prohibit line-item charges as NASUCA requested, but established new rules requiring wireless carriers to describe each line-item charge using plain, clear language that does not mislead customers regarding whether each charge is mandated by the government. The new rules, frequently referred to as the truth-in-billing rules, also preempt state regulations that either require or prohibit the use of line-item charges for wireless service. In conjunction with the adoption of these new rules, the FCC launched an additional proceeding to determine whether it should: (i) require wireless carriers to disclose all line item charges to customers at the point of sale, (ii) require customer bills to include a separate section for government mandated line-item charges, (iii) preempt any state or local regulations of wireless billing that are more stringent than its own, or (iv) allow wireless carriers to combine various government-mandated charges into one line item. Two entities appealed the March 2005 Order in the Eleventh Circuit. The Court hearing the appeal issued a decision in July 2006, holding that the presentation of line items on wireless bills constitutes “other terms and conditions” that are subject to state regulation. As a result, it concluded that the FCC did not have authority to preempt states from requiring or prohibiting the use of line item charges, and vacated the preemption ruling. It also remanded the case back to the FCC. The FCC requested a rehearing, but the Eleventh Circuit denied the request. In addition, two wireless carriers requested a stay of the decision pending a filing of a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court. The Eleventh Circuit denied that request as well. Any petition to the Supreme Court for review of the Eleventh Circuit’s decision must be filed by the end of February, 2007. Depending on the outcome of any Supreme Court review or additional FCC action, we may need to clarify or remove certain line-item charges that are currently listed on our customer bills. If we are unable to recoup these charges through other means, the FCC’s decision and new proposals could have an impact on our revenues. The FCC is also currently considering two petitions related to early termination fees charged by wireless carriers filed in 2005. The petitions seek a declaratory ruling stating that early termination fees are part of the “rates charged” by wireless carriers, and therefore exempt from state regulation under the Communications Act. One of the petitions was filed by SunCom in response to a court order in a pending South Carolina class-action lawsuit regarding SunCom’s early termination fees, and the other was filed by the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association in response to similar lawsuits filed against various wireless carriers in a number of states. If the FCC grants the petitions, the likely result will be to preempt state courts from adjudicating any disputes related to early termination fees. The FCC is expected to act on these petitions in 2007. Access for Individuals with Disabilities. The FCC requires telecommunications services providers, including us, to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, if that equipment can be made available without much difficulty or expense. The rules require us to develop a process to evaluate the accessibility, usability and compatibility of covered services and equipment. In addition to these general obligations, in July 2003 the FCC adopted new hearing aid compatibility, or HAC, rules requiring that digital wireless phones be capable of effective use with hearing aids. The new rules incorporate two technical standards: one relating to reduced radiofrequency emissions, and one relating to compatibility with telecoils, a component used in certain types of hearing aids. With regard to the reduced radiofrequency emissions standard, carriers of our size were required to offer two compliant phones by September 2005. Due to the late availability of compliant phones and related materials from vendors, SunCom and other GSM carriers did not meet this deadline, but filed petitions for waiver with the FCC seeking extensions. We sought an extension until December 2005, and notified the FCC in early January that we are now in compliance with the rules. The FCC has never ruled on these waiver requests. By August 2006, we were required to have at least two phones which meet the standard for the 800 megahertz (cellular) band, in addition to the 1900 megahertz PCS band. We satisfied this requirement. In addition, by February 2008, at least 50 percent of the wireless phone models offered by us must be compliant with this standard. With regard to the telecoil compatibility standard, carriers of our size were required to offer two compliant phones by September 2006. Due to the late availability of compliant phones from vendors, SunCom and other smaller carriers did not meet this deadline. SunCom has a pending waiver request seeking until April 1, 2007 to comply with this requirement. The FCC has not acted on this request. In November 2006, the FCC’s Wireless Bureau issued a Public Notice seeking comment on topics that will be addressed in a staff report to the FCC. The report will form the basis for the FCC to initiate a proceeding to evaluate possible modifications to the HAC requirements, including whether to increase or decrease the 2008 requirement that 50 percent of phone models comply 14 Table of Contents with the radiofrequency emission standard, and whether to adopt HAC implementation benchmarks beyond 2008. Such modifications could impact our business by altering the phone models we are able to offer. Wireless Spam. In August 2004, the FCC adopted rules pursuant to the “Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003,” or the CAN-SPAM Act. These rules include a general prohibition on sending commercial messages directly to any address referencing an Internet domain associated with wireless subscriber messaging services without the customer’s express prior authorization. We are permitted to send “transactional or relationship” messages to our subscribers and are required to submit to the FCC the names of all Internet domains on which we offer mobile messaging services. Public Safety Interference. In July 2004, the FCC adopted an order to resolve interference that has been occurring between commercial, private and public safety wireless users in the 800 megahertz band. The FCC supplemented and modified the Order in December 2004. While most of the interference issues have involved the Nextel network, interference problems have arisen in some markets due to the operations of commercial cellular providers. Because we operate a cellular system in Myrtle Beach, we will be subject to the FCC’s new rules, under which we must respond to any interference problems according to specific timelines and guidelines. In addition, if a public safety wireless user can show that interference is causing a clear and imminent danger to life or property, the FCC can require a cellular provider to immediately discontinue operation pending the resolution of the interference problem. State Regulation and Local Approvals The Communications Act preempts state and local regulation of the entry of or the rates charged by any provider of private mobile radio service or of commercial mobile radio service, which includes PCS and cellular service. The Communications Act permits states to regulate the “other terms and conditions” of commercial mobile radio service. The FCC has not clearly defined what is meant by the “other terms and conditions” of commercial mobile radio service, but has upheld the legality of state universal service requirements on commercial mobile radio service carriers. The FCC also has held that private lawsuits based on state law claims concerning how wireless rates are promoted or disclosed may not be preempted by the Communications Act. Regulators and Attorneys General in several states are reviewing wireless carrier billing practices and network reliability and coverage issues. In some states, regulators are advocating new rules, and in others, Attorneys General are filing class action lawsuits against wireless carriers related to their billing practices that are purportedly deceptive. Should similar regulations be adopted or lawsuits filed against wireless carriers in the states in which we operate, there could be a material adverse impact on our business. To try to protect ourself against potential lawsuits or state or federal regulation, we have adopted the CTIA “Voluntary Consumer Code” that requires disclosure of certain billing and coverage information to consumers. State and local governments are permitted to manage public rights of way and can require fair and reasonable compensation from telecommunications providers, including PCS providers, so long as the compensation required is publicly disclosed by the government. The sitting of cells/base stations also remains subject to state and local jurisdiction, although proceedings are pending at the FCC relating to the scope of that authority. States also may impose competitively neutral requirements that are necessary for universal service or to defray the costs of state enhanced 911 services programs, to protect the public safety and welfare, to ensure continued service quality and to safeguard the rights of consumers. There are several state and local legislative initiatives that are underway to ban the use of wireless phones in motor vehicles. New York and New Jersey have enacted statewide bans on driving while holding a wireless phone, and similar legislation has been introduced in other states, including Virginia, Georgia and Kentucky. Officials in a handful of communities, including the District of Columbia, have enacted ordinances banning or restricting the use of cell phones by drivers. Should this become a nationwide initiative, wireless communications services providers could experience a decline in the number of minutes used by subscribers. In general, states continue to consider restrictions on wireless phone use while driving, and some states are also beginning to collect data on whether wireless phone use contributes to traffic accidents. On the federal level, the National Transportation Safety Board has recommended a ban on the use of mobile phones by novice drivers while operating a motor vehicle. The foregoing does not purport to describe all present and proposed federal, state and local regulations and legislation relating to the wireless telecommunications industry. Other existing federal regulations and, in many jurisdictions, state and local franchise requirements are the subject of a variety of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative and legislative proposals that could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which wireless providers operate. Moreover, it is possible that Congress will begin new efforts this year to substantially rewrite the Telecommunications Act of 1996, although last year’s telecommunications reform efforts did not succeed. Neither the outcome of these proceedings nor their impact upon our operations or the wireless industry can be predicted at this time. 15 Table of Contents Competition We compete, in the majority of our markets, against three of the four nationwide wireless carriers: Cingular Wireless, Verizon Wireless and Sprint/Nextel. Within our North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee markets, additional competitors include ALLTEL Corporation, Hargray Wireless, Leap Wireless and U.S. Cellular. Within our Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands markets, additional competitors include Centennial Communications and Movistar. Historically, the most dominant competitors were the cellular incumbents, which in our markets were primarily Verizon, ALLTEL Corporation and U.S. Cellular. However, with the advent of PCS, other carriers, such as Cingular Wireless and Sprint/Nextel, have gained significant market share. In addition, wireless resellers operating as mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, such as Virgin Mobile USA, are beginning to attract a significant number of subscribers. We believe that we are a leading service provider based on the fact that we have been able to expand our subscriber base through internal growth or acquisition every year since inception. In addition, our service levels and commitment to customer care have earned us various awards and recognition by third parties, including magazines and newspapers circulated within our service areas. Because our competitors do not disclose their subscriber count in specific regional service areas, we cannot accurately determine market share for each of these companies where we do business. The principal competitive factors within our business consist of: • network quality, which is the coverage provided by our cell sites and infrastructure as well as roaming agreements with carriers that enable our customers to utilize their networks when traveling outside of our coverage area; • price and value, which includes the monthly charges we bill our wireless subscribers and the minutes of use they receive; • quality customer care, which includes the speed and accuracy of customer issue resolution; and • products offered, which include a variety of handsets and accessories with multiple capabilities, including data services. Upon review of these factors, we believe that we compete favorably in our market, as evidenced by our increasing subscriber base in each year since our inception. In addition to the above mentioned competitive factors, our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to other competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions, and competitors’ discount pricing and bundling strategies, all of which could adversely affect our operating margins. Wireless providers are increasingly competing in the provision of both voice and non-voice services. Non-voice services, including data transmission, text messaging, e-mail, and Internet access are now available from PCS providers and enhanced specialized mobile radio carriers. In many cases, non-voice services are offered in conjunction with or as adjuncts to voice services. Our GSM/GPRS network overlay provides us the technology to offer more advanced wireless data services. Some of the national wireless carriers, such as Cingular Wireless, are beginning to bundle their wireless offerings with landline local or long distance services, a practice that could make these carriers’ wireless services more attractive to customers. Cable operators also are entering the wireless market as MVNOs with offers of bundled wireless and landline services, high-speed data, and cable service. Intellectual Property Our brand name is SunCom. The SUNCOM service mark is registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (Reg. Nos. 2,367,621 and 2,576,959). The following service marks containing the word SUNCOM are also registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office: SUNCOM and DESIGN (Reg. No. 2,831,052); SUNCOM AT YOUR SERVICE (Reg. No. 3, 088,192); SUNCOM CONNECT (Reg. No. 2,576,974); SUNCOM FYI (Reg. No. 2,793,440); SUNCOM INET (Reg. No. 2,886,969); SUNCOM KEEP TALKING (Reg. No. 2,793,501); SUNCOM PREPAID TO GO (Reg. No. 2,796,493); SUNCOM STATES ( Reg. No. 2,793,422); SUNCOM SUBSCRIPTION WIRELESS (Reg. No. 2,887,121); SUNCOM SUPERSTATES (Reg. No. 2,796,672); SUNCOM TO GO (Reg. No. 2,796,492); SUNCOM UNLIMITED (Reg. No. 2,793,470); SUNCOM UNPLAN (Reg. No. 2,887,120); SUNCOM USA (Reg. No. 2,793,471); SUNCOM WELCOME HOME (Reg. No. 2,793,536); and SUNCOM WIRELESS and DESIGN (Reg. No. 2,860,451). In addition, the following marks that we use are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office: M-NET (Reg. Nos. 2,437,645 and 2,464,250); TRUE FIT (Reg. No. 3,127,450); TRUTH IN WIRELESS (Reg. No. 3,127,449); and WE GET IT (Reg. No. 2,448,313). 16 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 1,924 employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Available Information SunCom’s Internet address is http://www.suncom.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our reports are available on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our reports can also be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Holdings’ board of directors has established an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee and has adopted a written charter for each committee. In addition, Holdings’ board of directors has adopted (i) Corporate Governance Principles and (ii) a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Managers. Each committee charter, our Corporate Governance Principles and the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Managers is available on our web site at www.suncom.com. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of Holdings’ Class A common stock or SunCom Wireless’ notes could decline. We have experienced losses during four of the last five years, and we may be unable to regain profitability. We reported significant net losses in four of the last five fiscal years. In 2004, we reported net income of $682.5 million. However, our profitability in 2004 was related to the gain arising from the consummation of our transactions with AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless. We may not achieve profitability or maintain profitability, if achieved, on a consistent basis. In addition, our operating expenses may increase in the future as we continue to upgrade our technology. If our gross profit does not grow to offset any such increased expenses, it will be more difficult to reverse our history of losses. Our improved financial performance will primarily depend on our ability to: • grow our subscriber base; • manage customer turnover rates effectively; • price our services competitively; and • control our operating and non-operating expenses. We may not be able to successfully accomplish these tasks, and if we do not, we may not be able to achieve profitability. Continued losses could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock and SunCom Wireless’ notes to decrease. We are highly leveraged and do not project sufficient cash flow to fund SunCom Wireless’ debt service and operating expenses beyond 2009. Accordingly, if our debt-for-equity exchange transaction is not consummated or if SunCom Wireless does not secure another source of liquidity, we will need to implement an alternative financial plan, such as a significant asset sale, to reduce debt. As of December 31, 2006, SunCom Wireless had total consolidated long-term indebtedness of approximately $1.7 billion, represented by a senior secured term loan, a series of senior notes and the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes. The annual debt service on this long-term indebtedness currently is approximately $150 million. Our projected cash flow from operations is not expected to be sufficient to pay SunCom Wireless’ debt service and fund its operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements beyond 2009. SunCom Wireless’ inability to pay such debt service could result in a default on such indebtedness which, unless cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and financial position. Accordingly, we entered into an Exchange Agreement with certain holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes to affect an exchange of such notes for shares of Holdings’ Class A common stock. However, this transaction is subject to stockholder approval, FCC approval and closing conditions that may not be satisfied or waived. See Item 1 “Business—Recent Developments—Debt-for-Equity Exchange” for more information. If this exchange transaction is not completed, absent SunCom Wireless’ ability to secure another source of liquidity, SunCom Wireless will need to implement an alternative financial plan, such as the sale of a significant portion of SunCom Wireless’ assets, to reduce its long-term debt. There can be no assurance that any such deleveraging efforts would be successful and, if not, SunCom Wireless may have to seek federal bankruptcy protection. Consummation of our debt-for-equity exchange transaction will significantly dilute the current holders of our Class A common stock, which could potentially reduce the return to such stockholders in the event a sale transaction involving Holdings is consummated following the exchange. Pursuant to the terms of the exchange agreement entered into by Holdings, SunCom Wireless, SunCom Investment and certain holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes on January 31, 2007, the holders of approximately 95% of the outstanding SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes will exchange their subordinated notes for Class A common stock of Holdings. Based on the current principal amount of SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes expected to be delivered in the exchange, the existing holders of our Class A common stock will own approximately 12.5% of the Class A common stock of Holdings following the exchange. In the event that we are able to consummate a sale transaction at certain valuations following the exchange, the dilutive effects of the exchange transaction might result in the current holders of our Class A common stock receiving less consideration in a sale transaction on account of their shares of Class A common stock than they otherwise would have been entitled to receive had such sale transaction been consummated without giving effect to the exchange. The following analysis provides estimated per share value at incremental valuations. 18 Table of Contents Valuation Information In connection with the exchange, we prepared an analysis of the amounts that would be distributable to the current holders of our Class A common stock, and to the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes that have agreed to participate in the exchange, assuming a sale transaction were consummated at various valuation ranges. In connection with the following information, it should be noted that the ranges of potential value are provided for illustrative purposes only, and that we may be unable to consummate a sale transaction within the ranges provided, or at all. The following analysis makes certain assumptions regarding our expected cash expenditures over the periods presented, as well as estimated tax effects of a potential sale transaction, each of which may vary substantially from the assumptions used. Management believes the assumptions used to prepare this analysis are reasonable, but projections of this type are inherently subject to economic and industry uncertainties and contingencies, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond SunCom’s control. SunCom does not intend to update or otherwise revise this analysis. For more information regarding the proposed exchange transaction, see Item 1 “Business – Recent Developments – Debt-for-Equity Exchange”. Sale Transition Valuation Analysis (Dollars in millions, except per share data) SALE TRANSACTION VALUE $ 1,200 $ 1,400 $ 1,600 $ 1,700 $ 1,800 $ 2,000 Sale Proceeds — Pre-Exchange(1) Cash on Hand(2) $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 Net Expenditures(3) $ (100 ) $ (100 ) $ (100 ) $ (100 ) $ (100 ) $ (100 ) Less Senior Debt Principal(4) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) Sale Transaction Expenses(5) $ (132 ) $ (132 ) $ (142 ) $ (172 ) $ (192 ) $ (212 ) Total Distributable Proceeds Before Subordinated Notes: $ 196 $ 396 $ 586 $ 656 $ 736 $ 916 Subordinated Notes(6) $ 196 $ 396 $ 586 $ 656 $ 736 $ 774 Current Stockholders — — — — — $ 142 Per Common Share(7) — — — — — $ 1.97 Sale Proceeds — Post-Exchange(8) Cash on Hand(2) $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 $ 200 Net Expenditures(9) $ (60 ) $ (60 ) $ (60 ) $ (60 ) $ (60 ) $ (60 ) Less Senior Debt Principal(4) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) $ (972 ) Sale Transaction Expenses(5) $ (132 ) $ (132 ) $ (142 ) $ (172 ) $ (192 ) $ (212 ) Total Distributable Proceeds To Common Stockholders: $ 236 $ 436 $ 626 $ 696 $ 776 $ 956 Subordinated Notes Stockholders(10) $ 208 $ 384 $ 551 $ 612 $ 683 $ 841 Current Stockholders $ 28 $ 52 $ 75 $ 84 $ 93 $ 115 Per Common Share(11) $ 0.39 $ 0.73 $ 1.04 $ 1.16 $ 1.29 $ 1.59 (1) Assumes a sale transaction is consummated as of October 31, 2007. (2) Assumes a cash and short-term investment balance as of December 31, 2006. (3) Represents expected net expenditures through October 31, 2007, including interest payments paid or accrued through October 31, 2007 on $247 million of senior secured loans, $725 million principal amount of senior notes and $744 million principal amount of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes. (4) Includes $247 million of senior secured loans and $725 million principal amount of senior notes. (5) Includes (i) estimated refinancing costs of $725 million principal amount of senior notes, (ii) estimated taxes incurred in connection with a sale transaction and (iii) additional estimated expenses to be incurred in connection with a sale transaction. (6) Assumes that $744 million principal amount of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes are returned for all remaining available proceeds before common stockholders for transaction values of $1.8 billion or less. At valuations of $2.0 billion and above, includes a redemption premium on the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes of up to $29.8 million. (7) Per share amounts based on approximately 72 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of the sale transaction date. (8) Assumes that the exchange is consummated as of April 30, 2007, and a sale transaction is consummated as of October 31, 2007. 19 Table of Contents (9) Represents expected net expenditures through October 31, 2007, including interest payments paid or accrued (i) through October 31, 2007 on $247 million of senior secured loans and $725 million principal amount of senior notes, and (ii) through April 30, 2007, on $744 million principal amount of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes. (10) Assumes 100% participation in the exchange by the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes. If approximately 95% of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes are delivered in the exchange, as is currently contemplated, approximately $35.6 million of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes would remain outstanding and would be entitled to payment before any payment would be made in respect of the Class A common stock, including the Class A common stock received in respect of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes delivered in the exchange. (11) Per share amounts are based on approximately 600 million Class A shares outstanding as of the sale transaction date (after giving effect to the shares issued to the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Noteholders in the exchange) and does not give effect to the 1-for-10 reverse stock split that will occur prior to consummation of the exchange. Our future growth may require significant additional capital, and our substantial indebtedness could impair our ability to fund our capital requirements. We believe that we have sufficient funds to finance our planned capital expenditures for network expansion and upgrades for at least 2007, but we may require additional capital in the event of unforeseen delays, cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes, engineering design changes and other technological risks or if we acquire additional licenses. Currently, planned capital expenditures primarily consist of the continued coverage expansion of GSM/GPRS technology to increase capacity and enhance the network to support our expected increase in subscribers. GSM digital technology has positioned us to earn roaming revenue from other wireless carriers, such as T-Mobile and Cingular Wireless, which are selling GSM handsets. Sources of funding for our future capital requirements may include any or all of the following: • public offerings or private placements of debt securities; • commercial bank loans; and • equipment lease financing. Due to our highly leveraged capital structure, additional financing may not be available to us, or, if it were available, it may not be available on a timely basis, on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations contained in the indentures governing the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes and SunCom Wireless’ 8 1/2% senior notes, the documentation governing SunCom Wireless’ senior secured term loan or any new financing arrangements. Failure to obtain any appropriate financing, should the need for it develop, could result in the delay or abandonment of our development and expansion plans and our failure to meet regulatory requirements. It could also impair our ability to meet our debt service requirements and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. The indentures governing the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes and SunCom Wireless’ 8 1/2% senior notes, as well as the documentation governing SunCom Wireless’ senior secured term loan, contain significant covenants that limit our ability to engage in various transactions. In addition, under each of these documents, the occurrence of specific events, in some cases after notice and grace periods, would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of the respective indebtedness. These events include: • failure to comply with a document’s covenants; • material inaccuracies of representations and warranties; • specified defaults under or acceleration of other indebtedness; and • events of bankruptcy or insolvency. The limitations imposed by SunCom Wireless’ outstanding indebtedness are substantial, and failure to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. SunCom Wireless is currently in compliance with its debt covenants. In connection with our debt-for-equity exchange, the holders of the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes have agreed to “exit 20 Table of Contents consents” that will remove, as of the closing of the exchange, substantially all of the restrictive covenants and certain of the events of default from the indentures governing the SunCom Wireless Subordinated Notes. The restrictive covenants and events of default relating to the SunCom Wireless 8 1/2% senior notes will be unaffected by the exit consents. Our average revenue per user has declined for several years and may not stabilize. Our average revenue per user, or ARPU, has weakened over the past several years, declining from $56.07 in 2002 to $53.58 in 2006. This trend has resulted primarily from: • increased competition, which has reduced pricing generally; and • expansion of subscriber bases to customers on lower price plans, such as add-a-line, prepaid plans and similar plans targeting different market segments. In addition, SunCom has offered an increased number of minutes at a similar price point compared to historic rate plans to assist in sustaining ARPU. These incremental minutes resulted in incremental variable costs. Substantial competition in all aspects of our business could continue to cause reduced pricing and have adverse effects on our profit margins. There is substantial competition in all aspects of the wireless communications industry. Our competitors are principally the three nationwide carriers, Cingular Wireless, Verizon Wireless and Sprint/Nextel, and a large number of regional providers of cellular, PCS and other wireless communications services, resellers and wireline telephone service providers. We expect robust competition to continue in the wake of Cingular Wireless’ acquisition of AT&T Wireless and the mergers of Sprint and Nextel and Alltel and Western Wireless. Competition continues to intensify as wireless carriers include more equipment discounts and bundled services in their offerings, including more minutes and free long distance and roaming services. This contributes to downward pressure on revenue growth and profit margins, and we expect this trend to continue. Many of our competitors have substantial financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, which are significantly more expansive than our resources. As a response to the intensifying competition, the need for cost reduction and the requirements for additional radio spectrum, we believe that the industry will continue to consolidate. This may produce larger and more formidable competitors with greater financial ability to continue to reduce prices to increase their customer base. As a result, our market share and profit margins may decrease. Our business could be harmed by adverse regulatory changes. U.S. telecommunications providers are subject to federal and state regulations that may change at any time. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems to varying degrees, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. In addition, the FCC, in conjunction with the FAA, regulates tower marking and lighting. We cannot assure you that the FCC, the FAA or the state and local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business. FCC regulations and government policy in general promote robust competition, and new rules or changes to existing rules, such as rules providing for spectrum leasing and requiring wireless local number portability for customers changing wireless local carriers, could increase this trend and result in higher churn and lower margins. Our inability to effectively manage our planned growth could adversely affect our operations. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue to experience growth in the future. The management of such growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, stringent control of costs, increased marketing activities, ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The wireless industry is experiencing rapid technological change, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of advanced wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and 21 Table of Contents preferences. New communications technologies, such as “Wi-Fi” and voice over Internet, are being developed and deployed by competitors, which may affect our ability to grow our wireless data and voice businesses. We may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes, and there is no guarantee that any new technologies developed and deployed by us will have long-term marketability. Changes in our enterprise value, changes in the supply or demand of the market for wireless licenses, adverse developments in the business or the industry in which we are involved and/or other factors could require us to recognize impairments in the carrying value of our license costs, goodwill and/or physical assets. A large portion of our assets consists of intangible assets in the form of FCC licenses and goodwill. We also have substantial investments in long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment. Licenses and goodwill, our indefinite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Long-lived assets, other than our indefinite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may need to be recognized to the extent the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of such assets. The amount of any such impairment charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. The estimation of fair values requires assumptions by management about factors that are highly uncertain including future cash flows, the appropriate discount rate, and other factors. Different assumptions for these factors or valuation methodologies could create materially different results. A high rate of customer turnover would negatively impact our business and could reduce our revenues. Many providers in the personal communications services industry, including SunCom, have experienced a high rate of customer turnover. The rate of customer turnover may be the result of several factors, including network coverage, reliability issues such as blocked and dropped calls, handset problems, non-use of phones, change of employment, affordability, customer care concerns and other competitive factors. Our strategy to address customer turnover may not be successful, or the rate of customer turnover may be unacceptable. A high rate of customer turnover could reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and results of operations. If our wireless service offerings or customer care service do not meet customer expectations, it could limit our ability to retain or attract customers. Customer acceptance of the services we offer is and will continue to be affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality, reliability and coverage of our wireless networks. Consumer demand could be impacted by differences in technology, footprint and service areas, network quality, consumer perceptions, customer care levels and rate plans. We may have difficulty retaining customers if we are unable to meet our customers’ expectations for network quality and coverage, billing systems or customer care. An inability to address those issues could limit our ability to expand our network capacity or subscriber base and place us at a competitive disadvantage to other wireless service providers in our markets. These issues could affect our ability to attract new subscribers as well. Our FCC licenses are one of our principal assets, and our business could be harmed if the value of these licenses decreases or if our licenses are revoked by the FCC. One of our principal assets is our portfolio of FCC licenses to provide cellular and personal communications services. The market for the purchase and sale of wireless licenses may not exist in the future or the values of our licenses in that market may fall. If the market value of our licenses were to decrease, we may incur impairment losses or a material loss upon the sale of any of our licenses. The future value of these licenses will largely be determined by the success of our business, but may also be affected by the availability of alternative spectrum in our license areas. In addition to the spectrum currently licensed for PCS, cellular and specialized mobile radio services, the FCC has auctioned substantial additional Advanced Wireless Services spectrum for wireless carrier use. While this spectrum may be used by new companies that would compete directly with us, this spectrum could also be acquired by existing wireless companies and used to provide advanced or third generation data services, such as those we plan to offer over our GSM/GPRS network. The loss or revocation of any of our licenses by the FCC would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our personal communications services licenses began to be subject to renewal in 2005, and our cellular license for Myrtle Beach is subject to renewal in 2010. Our FCC licenses are also subject to fines or to potential revocation if we do not comply with the FCC’s rules. Our Universal Service Funding may be reduced or eliminated. Under the FCC’s current rules, Universal Service Funds are distributed to competitive carriers, including wireless carriers, operating in areas where the established landline carriers also receive such funding. In 2006, we received approximately $8.9 22 Table of Contents million of Universal Service Funds for our operations in Puerto Rico, and have applied for Eligible Telecommunications Carrier status in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. However, the Universal Service Fund rules are currently under review and could be substantially modified. As a result, there is no assurance that we will continue to receive any Universal Service Funds in the future, and the loss or reduction of this revenue could negatively impact our profitability. Roaming revenue represents a significant portion of our total revenues, and its seasonality will subject our revenue and operating income (loss) to seasonal fluctuations. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 10.1%, 12.5% and 17.8%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from roaming charges incurred by other wireless providers for use of our network by their customers who had traveled within our coverage area. A significant portion of that revenue was derived from T-Mobile’s and Cingular Wireless’ customers. If roaming minutes of use were to decline significantly, we would not be able to maintain the roaming revenue we have historically realized and our results of operations could suffer. Our coverage area includes a number of resort areas that contribute to our roaming revenue. As a result, our roaming revenue increases during vacation periods, introducing a measure of seasonality to our revenue and operating income (loss). Termination or impairment of our relationship with a small number of key suppliers or vendors could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have developed relationships with a small number of key vendors for our supply of wireless handsets and devices, telecommunications infrastructure equipment, billing and customer care services and for information systems. We do not have operational or financial control over our key suppliers and have limited influence with respect to the manner in which these key suppliers conduct their businesses. If these companies were unable to honor, or otherwise failed to honor their obligations to us, or terminate their relationship with us, we could experience disruptions of our business and adverse effects on our revenues and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. A small number of key executive officers manage our business. Their loss could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the personal communications services industry as the emerging personal communications services market develops, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We do not presently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executives or other employees. Equipment failure and disasters may adversely affect our operations. A major equipment failure or a natural disaster, terrorist act or other breach of network security that affects our wireless telephone switching offices, microwave links, third-party owned local and long distance networks on which we rely, our cell sites or other equipment or the networks of other providers on which our customers roam could have a material adverse effect on our operations. While we have insurance coverage for some of these events, our inability to operate our wireless system, even for a limited time period, may result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If hand-held phones pose health and safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and there may be a decrease in demand for our services. Media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against other participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. While many of these lawsuits were dismissed because of a lack of scientific evidence linking wireless handsets with cancer, other lawsuits were recently sent back to the trial court for further review. In addition, future lawsuits could be filed based on new evidence. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets, and regulators may impose restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and expose wireless providers to further litigation, which, even if not successful, could be costly to defend. We cannot assure you that government authorities will not increase regulation of wireless handsets and cell sites as a result of these health concerns or that wireless companies will not be held liable for costs or damages associated 23 Table of Contents with these concerns. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could also adversely affect us through a reduced subscriber growth rate, a reduction in subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or reduced financing available to the wireless communications industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 