Item 1A. Risk Factors There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. See the discussion under “Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our failure to maintain or renew key agreements could adversely affect our ability to distribute television and pay-per-view programming. Our television programming is distributed by broadcast and cable networks, and our pay-per-view programming is distributed by pay-per-view providers. Because our revenues are generated, directly and indirectly, from the distribution of our televised and pay-per-view programming, any failure to maintain or renew arrangements with these distributors or the failure of the distributors to continue to provide services to us could adversely affect our operating results. We are regularly in negotiations relating to substantial agreements covering the distribution of our cable, broadcast and/or pay-per-view television by carriers located in the United States or abroad. As an example, on January 31, 2008, we announced that we would conclude our partnership with the CW Network which airs “SmackDown” after the end of the 2007/2008 television season. In February 2008, we announced that SmackDown would be moving to MyNetworkTV. Our failure to continue to develop creative and entertaining programs and events would likely lead to a decline in the popularity of our brand of entertainment. The creation, marketing and distribution of our live and televised entertainment, including our pay-per-view events, is at the core of our business and is critical to our ability to generate revenues across our media platforms and product outlets. Our failure to continue to create popular live events and televised programming would likely lead to a decline in our television ratings and attendance at our live events, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to retain or continue to recruit key performers could lead to a decline in the appeal of our storylines and the popularity of our brand of entertainment. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to recruit, train and retain athletic performers who have the physical presence, acting ability and charisma to portray characters in our live events and televised programming. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify, train and retain these performers in the future. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current performers during the terms of their contracts or when their contracts expire. Our failure to attract and retain key performers, or a serious or untimely injury to, or the death of, or unexpected or premature loss or retirement for any reason of any of our key performers, could lead to a decline in the appeal of our storylines and the popularity of our brand of entertainment, which could adversely affect our operating results. The loss of the creative services of Vincent K. McMahon could adversely affect our ability to create popular characters and creative storylines. For the foreseeable future, we will depend heavily on the vision and services of Vincent K. McMahon. In addition to serving as Chairman of our board of directors, Mr. McMahon leads the creative team that develops the storylines and the characters for our televised programming and live events. Mr. McMahon is also an important member of the cast of performers. The loss of Mr. McMahon due to unexpected retirement, disability or death or other unexpected termination for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create popular characters and creative storylines, which could adversely affect our operating results. A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are affected by general economic conditions, which may affect consumers’ disposable income. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to the level of consumers’ disposable income. A decline in general economic conditions could reduce the level of discretionary income that our fans and potential fans have to spend on our live and televised entertainment and consumer products, which could adversely affect our revenues. A decline in the popularity of our brand of sports entertainment, including as a result of changes in the social and political climate, could adversely affect our business. 8 Our operations are affected by consumer tastes and entertainment trends, which are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the social and political climate. Our programming is created to evoke a passionate response from our fans. A change in our fans’ tastes or a material change in the perceptions of our business partners, including our distributors and licensees, whether as a result of the social and political climate or otherwise, could adversely affect our operating results. Changes in the regulatory atmosphere and related private-sector initiatives could adversely affect our business. While the production of television programming by independent producers is not directly regulated by the federal or state governments in the United States, the marketplace for television programming in the United States is affected significantly by government regulations applicable to, as well as social and political influences on, television stations, television networks and cable and satellite television systems and channels. We voluntarily designate the suitability of each of our television shows using standard industry ratings, such as PG (L,V) or TV14. A number of domestic and foreign governmental and private-sector initiatives relating to the content of media programming have been announced in recent years. Changes in these governmental policies and private-sector perceptions could further restrict our program content and adversely affect our levels of viewership and operating results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented, and we may not be able to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence. For our live, television and pay-per-view audiences, we face competition from professional and college sports, as well as from other forms of live and televised entertainment and other leisure activities in a rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented marketplace. The manner in which audio/video content is distributed and viewed is constantly changing, and while we attempt to distribute our content across all platforms, our failure to continue to do so effectively could adversely affect our operating results. For the sale of our consumer products, we compete with entertainment companies, professional and college sports leagues and other makers of branded apparel and merchandise. Many of the companies with whom we compete have greater financial resources than we do. Our failure to compete effectively could result in a significant loss of viewers, venues, distribution channels or performers and fewer entertainment and advertising dollars spent on our form of sports entertainment, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. We face uncertainties associated with international markets. Our production of live events overseas subjects us to the risks involved in foreign travel and local regulations, including regulations requiring us to obtain visas for our performers. In addition, the licensing of our television and consumer products in international markets exposes us to some degree of currency risk. All international operations are subject to political instability inherent in varying degrees in those markets. These risks could adversely affect our operating results and impair our ability to pursue our business strategy as it relates to international markets. We may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events if we do not comply with applicable regulations. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, athletic commissions and other applicable regulatory agencies require us to obtain licenses for promoters, medical clearances and/or other permits or licenses for performers and/or permits for events in order for us to promote and conduct our live events. In the event that we fail to comply with the regulations of a particular jurisdiction, we may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events in that jurisdiction. The inability to present our live events over an extended period of time or in a number of jurisdictions could lead to a decline in the various revenue streams generated from our live events, which could adversely affect our operating results. Because we depend upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights or our infringement of others’ intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Our inability to protect our large portfolio of trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material and characters, trade names and other intellectual property rights from piracy, counterfeiting or other unauthorized use could negatively affect our business. Intellectual property is material to all aspects of our operations, and we expend substantial cost and effort in an attempt to maintain and protect our intellectual property and to maintain compliance vis-à-vis other parties’ intellectual property. We have a large portfolio of registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks worldwide and maintain a large catalog of copyrighted works, including copyrights to our television programming, music, photographs, books, magazines and apparel art. A principal focus of our efforts is to protect the intellectual property relating to our originally created characters portrayed by our performers, which encompasses images, likenesses, names and other identifying indicia of these characters. We also own a large number of Internet website domain names and operate a network of developed, content-based sites, which facilitate and contribute to the exploitation of our intellectual property worldwide. 9 We vigorously seek to enforce our intellectual property rights by, among other things, searching the Internet to ascertain unauthorized use of our intellectual property, seizing at our live events goods that feature unauthorized use of our intellectual property and seeking restraining orders and/or damages in court against individuals or entities infringing our intellectual property rights. Our failure to curtail piracy, infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights effectively, or our infringement of others’ intellectual property rights, could adversely affect our operating results. We could incur substantial liabilities if pending material litigation is resolved unfavorably. We are currently a party to civil litigation, which, if concluded adversely to our interests, could adversely affect our operating results. In the ordinary course of business we become subject to various complaints and litigation matters. The outcome of litigation is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and the defense against such claims or actions can be costly. Any adverse judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that occur during our physically demanding events. We hold numerous live events each year. This schedule exposes our performers and our employees who are involved in the production of those events to the risk of travel and performance-related accidents, the consequences of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The physical nature of our events exposes our performers to the risk of serious injury or death. Although our performers, as independent contractors, are responsible for maintaining their own health, disability and life insurance, we self-insure health coverage for our performers in the event that they are injured while performing. We also self-insure a substantial portion of any other liability that we could incur relating to such injuries. Liability to us resulting from any death or serious injury sustained by one of our performers while performing, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could adversely affect our operating results. We face a variety of risks relating to new and complementary businesses, including feature films. We have entered into new or complementary businesses in the past and may do so again in the future. For example, we have recently entered into the feature film business. Risks of expansion may include: potential diversion of management’s attention and other resources, including available cash, from our existing business; unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; reduced earnings due to increased amortization, impairment charges and other costs; competition from other companies with experience in such businesses; and possible additional regulatory requirements and compliance costs. Through his beneficial ownership of a substantial majority of our Class B common stock, Mr. McMahon can exercise control over our affairs, and his interests may conflict with the holders of our Class A common stock. We have Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The holders of Class A common stock generally have rights identical to holders of Class B common stock, except that holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, and holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share. Holders of both classes of common stock generally will vote together as a single class on all matters presented to stockholders for their vote or approval, except as otherwise required by applicable Delaware law. A substantial majority of the issued and outstanding shares of Class B common stock is owned beneficially by Vincent K. McMahon. Mr. McMahon controls approximately 87% of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Through his beneficial ownership of a substantial majority of our Class B common stock, Mr. McMahon effectively can exercise control over our affairs, and his interest could conflict with the holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, the voting power of Mr. McMahon through his ownership of our Class B common stock could discourage others from initiating potential mergers, takeovers or other change of control transactions. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline. A substantial number of shares will be eligible for future sale by Mr. McMahon, and the sale of those shares could lower our stock price. Although the company is not aware of any such plans, sales of substantial amounts of our Class B common stock by Mr. McMahon, or the perception that such sales could occur, may lower the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. Our Class A common stock has a relatively small public “float.” Historically, as a result of our relatively small public float, our Class A common stock has been less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership, and the trading prices for our Class A common stock have been more volatile than generally may be the case for more widely-held common stock. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our Class A common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our Class A common stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 