Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic changes that may affect the general economic climate and our performance, the performance of those with whom we do business, and the appetite of consumers for products and publications. Similarly, the price of our stock is impacted by general equity market conditions, the relative attractiveness of our market sector, differences in results of operations from estimates and projections, and other factors beyond our control. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of those operations and the financial results of those operations elsewhere in this report, the factors listed below could adversely affect our operations. Although the risk factors listed below are the risk factors that Company management considers significant, material risk factors that are not presently known to Company management may also adversely affect our operations. Our success depends in part on the popularity of our brands and the reputation and popularity of Martha Stewart, our Founder, and Emeril Lagasse. Any adverse reactions to publicity relating to Ms. Stewart or Mr. Lagasse, or the loss of either of their services, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and our ability to maintain or generate a consumer base. While we believe there has been significant consumer acceptance for our products as stand-alone brands, the image, reputation, popularity and talent of Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse remain important factors. Ms. Stewart’s efforts, personality and leadership, including her services as an officer and director of MSLO, have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. While we have managed our business without her daily participation at times in the past, the repeated diminution or loss of her services due to disability, death or some other cause, or any repeated or sustained shifts in public or industry perceptions of her, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Ms. Stewart’s current employment agreement ends March 31, 2012. We expect to enter into an extension of Ms. Stewart’s employment agreement prior to its expiration. 13 Table of Contents In addition, in 2008 we acquired the assets relating to Emeril Lagasse’s businesses other than his restaurants and foundation. The value of these assets is largely related to the ongoing popularity and participation of Mr. Lagasse in the activities related to exploiting these assets. Therefore, the continued value of these assets could be materially adversely affected if Mr. Lagasse were to lose popularity with the public or be unable to participate in our business, forcing us potentially to write-down a significant amount of the value we paid for these assets. A loss of the services of other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued success depends to a large degree upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives, as well as upon a number of members of creative, technology, and sales and marketing staffs. The loss of some of our key executives or key members of our operating staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Failure of the economy to sustain a recovery or difficulties in the financial markets could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could adversely affect the value of our assets or hamper our ability to raise additional funds. The economy experienced extreme disruption during each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, including extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and a drastic reduction in credit availability. These events led to increased unemployment, a downturn in the housing market, declines in consumer confidence and declines in personal income and consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending. These adverse consumer trends led to reduced spending on general merchandise, homes and home improvement projects—categories in which we license our brands—resulting in weaker revenues from our licensed products in our Merchandising business. This economic downturn also resulted in extraordinary and unprecedented uncertainty and instability for many companies, across all industries, and severely impacted many of the companies with which we do business. We depend on advertising revenue in our Publishing and Broadcasting businesses. We cannot control how much or where companies choose to advertise. Since 2009, we have seen a significant downturn in advertising dollars generally in the marketplace, and more competition for the reduced dollars. During the course of the advertising recession, we experienced a decline in advertising revenues, and a permanent reversal of that trend is not assured. If advertisers continue to spend less money, or if they advertise elsewhere in lieu of our magazines, websites or television programming, our business and revenues will be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if our licensees experience financial hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to pay us royalties or continue selling our products, regardless of their contractual obligations. We cannot predict the future health and viability of the companies with which we do business and upon which we depend for royalty revenues, advertising dollars and credit. Although economic conditions have stabilized and shown some indications of improvement, it is difficult to judge the scope and sustainability of any general economic recovery. This makes it difficult for us to forecast consumer and product demand trends and companies’ willingness to spend money to advertise in our media properties. While consumer spending and confidence have improved, consumer spending remains constrained. Unemployment remains and is expected to remain at high levels and the housing market remains weak and may in fact further deteriorate. If consumer confidence, consumer spending and the housing market do not rebound and/or if the companies with which we do business experience ongoing problems, our revenues may not grow as planned. An extended period of reduced cash flows could increase our need for credit at a time when such credit may not be available. Because of residual uncertainties regarding the economy, our operating results will be difficult to predict, and prior results will not necessarily be indicative of results to be expected in future periods. In addition, we have significant goodwill, intangible and other assets recorded on our balance sheet. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill, intangible and other assets on an ongoing 14 Table of Contents basis, and we may in the future incur substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessment inherently involves the exercise of judgment in determining assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Although we believe the assumptions we have used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. Future events and changing market conditions may prove our assumptions to be wrong with respect to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors. Differing results may amplify impairment charges in the future. Acquiring or developing additional brands or businesses poses inherent financial and other risks and challenges and may result in losses. If we were to acquire or create a new brand, or expand an existing brand, we may be required to increase expenditures to accelerate the development process with the goal of achieving longer-term cost savings and improved profitability. Brand developments may increase expenses if we hire additional personnel to manage our growth. These investments also would require significant time commitments from our senior management and place a strain on their ability to manage our existing businesses. We continue to evaluate the acquisition of other businesses. These transactions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation, and integration. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the field of interactive media. Even if successfully negotiated, closed, and integrated, an acquisition may not advance our business strategy and may result in losses. We are expanding our merchandising and licensing programs into new areas and products, the failure of any of which could diminish the perceived value of our brand, impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new or expand existing retail merchandising programs. We have entered into several new merchandising and licensing agreements in the past few years. Some of these agreements are exclusive and have a duration of many years. While we require that our licensees maintain the quality of our respective brands through specific contractual provisions, we cannot be certain that our licensees, or their manufacturers and distributors, will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brands. There is also a risk that our extension into new business areas will meet with disapproval from consumers. We cannot guarantee that these programs will be fully implemented, or if implemented, that they will be successful. If the licensing or merchandising programs do not succeed, we may be prohibited from seeking different channels for our products due to the exclusive nature and multi-year terms of these agreements. Disputes with new or existing licensees may arise that could hinder our ability to grow or expand our product lines. Disputes also could prevent or delay our ability to collect the licensing revenue that we expect in connection with these products. If such developments occur or our merchandising programs are otherwise not successful, the value and recognition of our brands, as well as our business, financial condition and prospects, could be materially adversely affected. For example, a dispute with a current licensee is a lawsuit filed on January 23, 2012, against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York titled Macy’s, Inc. and Macy’s Merchandising Group, Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. In this lawsuit, Macy’s Inc. and Macy’s Merchandising Group, Inc. (together, the “Macy’s plaintiffs”) claim that our planned activities under the agreement governing our strategic alliance with J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. materially breach the agreement between us and Macy’s Merchandising Group, Inc. dated April 3, 2006 (the “Macy’s Agreement”). The Macy’s plaintiffs seek a declaratory judgment, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, and incidental and other damages. The Macy’s plaintiffs initially filed a motion for a preliminary injunction and subsequently withdrew the motion without prejudice. On February 10, 2012, the Company filed an answer to the Macy’s plaintiffs’ original 15 Table of Contents complaint and asserted three counterclaims against the Macy’s plaintiffs, alleging that Macy’s, Inc. and Macy’s Merchandising Group, Inc. had breached the Macy’s Agreement by, among other things, failing to maximize net sales. The Macy’s plaintiffs have denied the allegations of the counterclaims. If the Macy’s plaintiffs are successful and we are enjoined, some of the future benefits we anticipate receiving from our relationship with J. C. Penney could be reduced. If adverse trends develop in the television production business generally, or if we were unable to sustain a television presence, our business could be adversely affected. Television revenues may be affected by a number of other factors, most of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in daytime television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising marketplace, the strength of the channel on which our programming is carried, general economic conditions, increases in production costs, availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and other factors. Any or all of these factors may quickly change, and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. There has been a reduction in advertising dollars generally available and more competition for the reduced dollars across more media platforms. The Martha Stewart Show has experienced a decline in ratings in 2011 compared to 2010 that reflect the general decline in daytime cable television viewers. If ratings for the show were to further decline, it would adversely affect our Broadcasting advertising revenues. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in creating replacement programming for The Martha Stewart Show, which is expected to only air through September 2012, or if visibility of Ms. Stewart on different television programming formats is diminished, Broadcasting segment revenues will be severely reduced. Publishing segment advertising revenues could be negatively impacted, as well as opportunities for multi-platform advertising sales. We have also produced television shows featuring Emeril Lagasse. Emeril’s failure to maintain or build popularity could negatively impact his marketing platform and his products, as well as the loss of anticipated revenue and profits from his television shows. We have placed emphasis on building an advertising-revenue-based website, dependent on a large consumer audience and resulting page views. Failure to maintain growth could adversely affect our brand and business prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon the continued development and growth of our digital properties. We have had failures with direct commerce in the past, and only limited experience in building an advertising-revenue-based website. When initial results from the re-launch of the marthastewart.com site in the second quarter of 2007 were below expectations, we made changes to the site and continue to enhance and upgrade the site including the 2010/2011 initiative to re-platform marthastewart.com. We cannot be certain that those changes will enable us to sustain growth for our website in the long term. In addition, the competition for advertising dollars has intensified. In order for our digital properties to succeed, we must, among other things maintain and continue to: • significantly increase our online audience and advertising revenue; • attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our website; • expand the content, products and interactive experiences we offer on our website; • respond to competitive developments while maintaining a distinct brand identity; • develop and upgrade our technologies so that they can support more efficient and effective migration of content from the print platform and provide a more robust user experience; and • bring innovative product features to market in a timely manner. 16 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to predict, respond to and influence trends in what the public finds appealing, our business will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, programming, content and products that strongly appeal to a large number of consumers, as well as distributing the content through the latest technology and traditional channels. In order to accomplish this, we must be able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes for ideas, information, concepts, programming, technology, content and products. The strength of our brands and our business units depends in part on our ability to influence tastes through broadcasting, print publication, digital distribution and merchandising. We cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past, or that we will be able to respond quickly to changes in the tastes of homemakers and other consumers and their appetite for new technology. Absence of new product launches may reduce our earnings or generate losses. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue offering new products and services that successfully gain market acceptance by addressing the needs of our current and future customers. Our efforts to introduce new products or integrate acquired products may not be successful or profitable. The process of internally researching and developing, launching, gaining acceptance and establishing profitability for a new product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product, is both risky and costly. New products generally incur initial operating losses. Costs related to the development of new products and services are generally expensed as incurred and, accordingly, our profitability from year to year may be adversely affected by the number and timing of new product launches. For example, we had a cumulative loss of $15.7 million in connection with Blueprint, which we ceased publishing in 2007. Other businesses and brands that we may develop also may prove not to be successful. Our principal print business vendors are consolidating and this may adversely affect our business and operations. We rely on certain principal vendors in the print portion of our Publishing segment and their ability or willingness to sell goods and services to us at favorable prices and other terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability and willingness of these vendors to sell these goods and services to us on favorable terms. Our principal vendors include paper suppliers, printers, subscription fulfillment houses, subscription agents and national newsstand wholesalers, distributors and retailers. Each of these industries in recent years has experienced consolidation among its principal participants. Further consolidation may result in decreased competition, which may lead to greater dependence on certain vendors and increased prices; as well as interruptions and delays in services provided by such vendors, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of many paper mills consolidating their operations, we experienced paper price increases in 2011. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in paper, postage and distribution costs. In our Publishing segment, our principal raw material is paper for the print portion of that business. Paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. We generally purchase paper from major paper suppliers who adjust the price periodically. We have not entered, and do not currently plan to enter, into long-term forward price or option contracts for paper. Accordingly, significant increases in paper prices would adversely affect our future results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Postage for magazine distribution is also one of our significant expenses. We primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute magazine subscriptions. In recent years, postage rates have increased, and a significant further increase in postage prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. We may not be able to recover, in whole or in part, paper or postage cost increases. Distribution of magazines to newsstands and bookstores is conducted primarily through companies known as wholesalers. Wholesalers have in the past advised us that they intended to increase the price of their services. We have not experienced any material increase to date; however, some wholesalers have experienced credit and going concern risks. It is possible that other wholesalers likewise may seek to increase the price of their services or discontinue operations. An increase in the price of our wholesalers’ services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The need to change wholesalers could cause a disruption or delay in deliveries, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be adversely affected by a continued weakening of newsstand sales. The magazine industry has seen a weakening of newsstand sales during the past few years. A continuation of this decline would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by further reducing our circulation revenue and causing us to either incur higher circulation expenses to maintain our rate bases, or to reduce our rate bases, which would in turn negatively impact our revenue. Our websites and internal networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. Our website activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, which we endeavor to protect from third party access. However, it is possible that unauthorized persons may be able to circumvent our protections and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our digital operations. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against or remedy any such security breaches. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss due to business interruption, or litigation. Our security measures and contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas may not be successful or enforceable. Martha Stewart controls our Company through her stock ownership, enabling her to elect most of our board of directors, and potentially to block matters requiring stockholder approval, including any potential changes of control. Ms. Stewart controls all of our outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, representing over 89% of our voting power. The Class B Common Stock has ten votes per share, while Class A Common Stock, which is the stock available to the public, has one vote per share. Because of this dual-class structure, Ms. Stewart has a disproportionately influential vote. As a result, Ms. Stewart has the ability to control unilaterally the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of all directors other than the two directors whose election is controlled by J.C. Penney and generally any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and indirectly the ability to control our management and affairs. Ms. Stewart’s concentrated control could, among other things, discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses and stockholders. Our intellectual property may be infringed upon or others may accuse us of infringing on their intellectual property, either of which could adversely affect our business and result in costly litigation. Our business is highly dependent upon our creativity and resulting intellectual property. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we depend. In addition, the laws of many foreign 18 Table of Contents countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. If we are alleged to have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly, affecting our finances and our reputation. Litigation also diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. If we were to lose such a case, and be required to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology or if we were forced to pay monetary damages, the results could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. We operate in three highly competitive businesses: Publishing, Broadcasting and Merchandising, each of which subjects us to competitive pressures and other uncertainties. We face intense competitive pressures and uncertainties in each of our three businesses. Our magazines, books and related publishing products compete not only with other magazines, books and publishing products, but also with other mass media, websites, and many other types of leisure-time activities. We face significant competition from a number of print and website publishers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may enhance their ability to compete in the markets we serve. As advertising budgets have diminished, the competition for advertising dollars has intensified. Competition for advertising revenue in publications is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and scope of readership, reader response to the promotions for advertisers’ products and services, the desirability of the magazine’s demographic and the effectiveness of advertising sales teams. Other competitive factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, circulation, price, customer service, circulation revenues and, ultimately, advertising revenues. Our websites compete with other how-to, food and lifestyle websites. Our challenge is to attract and retain users through an easy-to-use and content-relevant website. Competition for digital adverting is based on the number of unique users we attract each month, the demographic profile of that audience and the number of pages they view on our site. Because some forms of media have relatively low barriers to entry, we anticipate that additional competitors, some of which have greater resources than we do, may enter these markets and intensify competition. Our television programs compete directly for viewers, distribution and/or advertising dollars with other lifestyle and how-to television programs, as well as with general programming and all other competing forms of media. Overall competitive factors in Broadcasting include programming content, quality and distribution, as well as the demographic appeal of the programming. Competition for television and radio advertising dollars is based primarily on advertising rates, audience size and demographic composition, viewer response to advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of the advertising sales staff. Our radio programs compete for listeners with similarly themed programming on both satellite and terrestrial radio. Our Merchandising segment competitors consist of mass-market and department stores that compete with the mass-market, home improvement and department stores in which our Merchandising segment products are sold. Our merchandising lines also compete within the mass-market, home improvement and department stores that carry our product lines with other products offered by these stores in the respective product categories. We also compete with the internet businesses of these stores and other websites that sell similar retail goods. Our failure to meet the competitive pressures in any of these segments could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 19 Table of Contents 