ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Adverse U.S. and global economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations. Our business and operating results have been, and will continue to be affected by domestic and global economic conditions. Economic recession, international financial market uncertainty, fluctuations in fuel and energy prices, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, consumer consumption and global trade flows are some of the factors which affect demand for transportation services. The transportation industry is cyclical. Our operating results are subject to changing economic conditions. Uncertain economic conditions, including those currently faced by the U.S. and global economies, can limit or delay our ability to increase rates in spite of increased rates from our transportation providers. In addition, weak economic conditions and credit and financial market disruptions could cause many of our existing and potential customers to reduce their use of, and ability to pay for, our services. A weakening of the U.S. or global economy could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and results of operations. Changes in transportation costs or revenues, as a result of competition in our industry and pricing strategies of our transportation suppliers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our logistics segment competes primarily against other domestic asset-based and non-asset based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, shipping departments of our customers and other freight forwarders. Our intermodal segment competes 15 Table of Contents primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers on flat cars, and containerized intermodal rail services offered by railroads and other intermodal service providers. We also face competition from Internet-based freight exchanges, or electronic bid environments, that provide an online marketplace for buying and selling supply chain services. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow them to better withstand an economic downturn, reduce their prices more easily, or expand or enhance the marketing of their products. In addition, customers are more frequently soliciting competitive bids for transportation services which historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. Downward pressure on pricing could adversely affect the yields of our transportation services. Rate increases, particularly by our railroad, motor transportation, and ocean carrier suppliers, may also have an adverse financial impact if we are unable to pass these costs onto our customers. Transportation rate increases may also slow overall demand for transportation services and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. We are dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate our business. If we fail to secure sufficient equipment, capacity or services, we could lose customers and revenues. We are dependent upon the availability of rail, truck and ocean transportation services, and transportation equipment such as chassis and containers provided by independent third parties, including Union Pacific as described below to supplement our controlled equipment capacity. The industry has experienced equipment and capacity shortages in the past, particularly during peak shipping seasons. Steamship lines and airfreight providers have experienced limited space and international container shortages in the past. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity, or services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs and schedules, we would not be able to meet our customers’ needs for transportation and logistics services, which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations, and financial condition. Network changes, lane closures, carrier consolidation, and other reductions or deterioration in rail services could increase costs, decrease demand for our intermodal services, and adversely affect our operating results. Most of the intermodal transportation services we provide depend on the major railroads in the United States which in many markets is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. As a result, any reduction, suspension, or elimination of rail service to a particular market may limit our ability to serve some of our customers. Furthermore, reductions in service by the railroads are likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services that we provide and potentially reduce the reliability, timeliness, and overall attractiveness of our intermodal product. Increases in the cost of rail service reduce some of the advantages of intermodal transportation compared to truck and other transportation modes which may reduce demand for our intermodal services. Rail consolidations in the past have caused service disruptions and would further reduce service choices and bargaining power for rail customers. Further consolidation among railroads might adversely affect intermodal transportation and our results of operations. From time to time, our railroad suppliers have experienced train resource shortages, operating inefficiencies, and high demand for rail transportation that resulted in increased transit times, terminal congestion, and decreased equipment velocity, all of which increase our costs, decrease equipment capacity, impact customer service, and create a challenging operating environment. To the extent that we are reliant on rail carriers that experience poor service performance, demand for our intermodal services may be adversely affected. Union Pacific is the primary source for the containers and chassis used in our intermodal operations and any failure by Union Pacific to provide us with containers and chassis when required would adversely affect our revenues and ability to service our customers. Union Pacific is the primary supplier and servicer of the 53-ft containers used in our business as well as of the chassis used on the Union Pacific network. We have the ability under these arrangements with Union Pacific to increase or decrease our equipment fleet periodically. However, procuring new chassis and containers, which 16 Table of Contents are manufactured overseas, has historically required several months of lead time. We expect the schedule for obtaining additional equipment from Union Pacific arrangements to be similar to our historical experience. The refusal or failure of Union Pacific to provide us with additional containers and chassis when required, or its failure to adequately and timely service the containers or chassis we use, would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business may be affected by any adverse change to relationships with railroad service providers upon the expiration or renewal of such contracts. Our rail contracts, which have varied expiration dates, contain specific contract rates and other negotiated provisions that enable us to provide competitive transportation rates and services to our customers. Our loss of one or more of these rail contracts, or failure to enter into renewal or replacement contracts with comparably favorable terms upon expiration of the current contracts could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. While we expect to be able to continue to obtain competitive terms and conditions from our railroad vendors, no assurance can be given that such terms and conditions will be comparable to those in our current rail contracts. We are dependent on the automotive industry which has experienced significant declines as a result of economic cycles. Approximately 33% of our revenues in 2011, 26% in 2010, and 19% in 2009 were from customers in the automotive industry. Although the industry has strengthened and shown signs of recovery from the lows reached in recent years, the market remains depressed compared to historical norms. There are no assurances that the current level of revenues and volumes will be sustained or increase in the future. If the business of North American automobile manufacturers and suppliers does not improve or begins to deteriorate again, our revenues, as well as our results of operations and cash flows, would be adversely affected. We service portions of our automotive customers on short term rate agreements, which if they expire without replacement could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Union Pacific, CSX, and KCSM issue rate quotations which enable us to provide our north/south transportation services to transportation intermediaries serving North American automotive customers. We expect that our rail carriers involved in this traffic will continue to extend multi-year rates to us to support the automotive business, but no assurance can be given that such rate quotes and other terms will be issued or, if issued, that they will be on acceptable terms. Our failure to maintain favorable arrangements with our rail carriers with respect to the continued provision of our north/south Mexico automotive business in the future would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. Our transportation suppliers could provide preferences to others, including their own internal competing operations, which would decrease our profitability. Our operations compete in some cases with the intermodal service offerings of our rail transportation providers and their affiliated equipment provider operations as well as with other transportation service providers who utilize our services. For example, CSX and Union Pacific, two of our primary rail transportation providers, offer transcontinental and other long-haul intermodal transportation services that compete with our intermodal services. If our rail transportation providers provide preferences to their internal service offerings and container capacity or to other customers that do not compete with their intermodal service offerings, these preferences, such as lower rates, more access to capacity, or faster terminal services, could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations and on our ability to continue to provide efficient intermodal services to our customers. 17 Table of Contents Difficulty attracting and retaining independent contractors and third-party drayage capacity could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We rely on the services of independent contractors and third party motor carriers to provide drayage services. We also rely on a fleet of vehicles which are owned and operated by independent trucking contractors to transport customers’ goods by truck. Although we believe our relationships with our independent contractors are strong, contracts with independent contractors are, in most cases, terminable upon short notice by either party, and we may have difficulty replacing our independent contractors with equally qualified service providers. We compete with transportation service companies and trucking companies for the services of independent contractors and drivers. The pool of contractors and drivers is limited, and shortages of independent trucking operators have occurred from time to time. Therefore competition from other transportation service companies and trucking companies for such services can require us to incur additional advertising and recruiting costs and to increase the rates and charges payable to contractors and drivers for their services. If we are unable to attract or retain independent contractors as needed or are required to increase the amount paid for their services, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. Work stoppages, weather related issues, or other disruptions beyond our transportation providers’ control could adversely affect our operating results. Transportation services are provided through a network of rail and trucking transportation providers. Hurricanes, flooding, and other severe weather conditions can cause a disruption in service that can affect the flow of traffic over the entire network. In addition, our business can be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees, seaport strikes and labor renegotiations, foreign labor market disruptions, or by a work stoppage at railroads or local trucking companies servicing rail terminals, including work disruptions involving owner operators under contract with our local trucking operations. These network disruptions result in terminal embargoes, disruption to equipment and freight flows, depressed volumes and revenues, increased costs, and other negative effects on our operations and financial results particularly if they have a material effect on major railroad interchange facilities or areas through which significant amounts of our rail shipments pass. Other disruptions, such as those due to an act of terrorism or war, can adversely affect our operating income and cash flows in both our intermodal and logistics business. Rapid changes in fuel costs and disconnects between customer and carrier fuel cost recovery methodologies could impact our profitability. Fuel costs can be volatile and rapid changes in fuel costs and variations in fuel surcharge recovery methodologies that do not allow us to fully recover fuel-related costs from customers could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. Timing differences between fuel surcharges incurred and fuel surcharges billed to our customers as well as differences between formulas used to calculate fuel surcharges payable to carriers and contractors and receivable from customers can result in a positive or negative impact. As of December 31, 2011, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. Insurance costs and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings. Our business is exposed to costs for claims related to property damage, personal injury, cargo loss/damage, and workers’ compensation. We carry insurance to minimize this exposure. Insurance costs have varied over the past five years, reflecting the level of our operations, the insurance environment for our industry, our claim experience, and our self-retained (deductible) level. We are also responsible for claim expenses within our self-retained (deductible) levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We maintain insurance to cover claims and expense in excess of our deductible levels with insurance companies that we consider financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate 18 Table of Contents insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits and adversely impact our operating results. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. Revenues and profitability could be significantly impacted by the loss of major customers. In 2011, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 49% of our revenues. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we began to experience a reduction in intermodal revenue of $50 million to $75 million annually from one of these customers. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant change in their shipping patterns could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business, and prospects. We operate in a regulated industry, and failure to comply or increased costs of compliance with existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The transportation industry is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect its economics. Our trucking and intermodal equipment operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage are subject to regulation by the DOT and various state, local, and foreign governmental agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, handling of hazardous materials, safety ratings, insurance requirements, vehicle weight and size, and emissions restrictions. Our international freight forwarding operations as well as some of our steamship line customers are subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, U.S. Customs and other international, foreign, federal, and state authorities. We are also periodically audited by the DOT and other state and federal authorities to ensure that we are in compliance with safety, required licenses, hours-of-service, clean truck regulations, and other rules and regulations. New governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, could affect the transportation industry in general or us in particular. Any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may influence demand for our services or require us to make changes to our operating practices or services provided to our customers and may result in additional costs which, if we are unable to pass through to our customers, could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Furthermore, failure to comply with the laws and regulations of any of these governmental regulators, and any resultant suspension or loss of our licenses, could result in penalties or a cease and desist order against any operations that are not in compliance. Similarly, failure of our motor carrier operations to maintain a “satisfactory” safety rating and to maintain acceptable safety scores could reduce demand for our services and impair our ability to continue to service a significant percentage of our intermodal shipments through our own motor carrier operations, which we believe increases the reliability and profitability of our transportation services. Such compliance failures would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The borrowing base formula and other terms under our 2010 Credit Agreement could limit the amount of borrowings available to us thereunder, may limit our business and financing activities, and our flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions. Our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2010 Credit Agreement”) entered into on December 30, 2010, provides for a $125 million revolving credit facility, subject to increase to $175 million if certain conditions are met. The amount of borrowings available to us is determined through a detailed borrowing base formula. It is based on 85% of our eligible accounts receivable, certain equipment, and an availability reserve, each defined in the 2010 Credit Agreement. As a result, changes in the amount of our eligible account 19 Table of Contents receivables and equipment or the value thereof could limit the amount of borrowings available to us under the facility and thus our liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, $78.8 million was available under the 2010 Credit Agreement pursuant to the borrowing base formula, net of $12.4 million of outstanding letters of credit. If outstanding borrowings (including outstanding letters of credit) exceed the available borrowing base at any time, we must immediately repay any borrowings in excess of the borrowing base (or in some cases cash collateralize outstanding letters of credit). In such event we may not have available other sources of liquidity to make such payment which would result in an event of default under the 2010 Credit Agreement. The borrowing capacity under our credit facility could also be reduced if either of the two lending banks under our 2010 Credit Agreement were to fail or otherwise fail to provide us funds as required under the 2010 Credit Agreement. In such an event, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our operations or capital needs, which may not be available on terms as favorable as those in the 2010 Credit Agreement. The 2010 Credit Agreement includes other operating and financial restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or to engage in other business activities. The 2010 Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default and is secured by a first priority, perfected security interest in substantially all of the present and future tangible and intangible assets, intercompany debt, stock or other equity interests owned by us, our domestic subsidiaries, and a portion of the stock or other equity interests of certain of our foreign subsidiaries. A breach of any of the representations, restrictions, or covenants, could result in a default. A default under the 2010 Credit Agreement (which would trigger a cross-default under some of our equipment leases) could, depending on actions taken by our lenders and lessors, have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. If we are in default under the 2010 Credit Agreement and/or our other financing arrangements and our obligations thereunder were declared immediately due and payable, we would not have sufficient cash flow from operations or other available sources of liquidity to repay such obligations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 2 to the notes of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the terms of the 2010 Credit Agreement. A determination by regulators that our independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and adversely affect our operating results. Governmental authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors. In the future these authorities could be successful in asserting this position, or the interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors could change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under various laws and regulations, increase exposure to liabilities, and increase costs. Our business model assumes that our independent contractors are not deemed to be our employees and exposure to any of the above increased costs would impair our competitiveness in the industry and materially adversely affect our operating results. We have an extensive relationship with APL Limited and our business and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected if APL Limited failed or refused to comply with its contractual commitments. Pursuant to a long-term contract expiring in May 2019, APL Limited supplies us with chassis from its equipment fleet for the transport of international freight on behalf of other international shippers. In addition, we transport APL Limited’s international cargo on our intermodal network to locations in the United States using 20 Table of Contents chassis and equipment supplied by APL Limited. APL Limited pays us a fee for repositioning its empty containers within North America so that the containers can be reused in trans-Pacific shipping operations. APL Limited’s affiliate is an important customer for our north-south automotive line of business. If our contract with APL Limited were terminated or if APL Limited were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of its contract, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Failure to develop, protect, integrate, upgrade, or replace our information technology systems or events beyond our control may negatively impact our ability to service our customers or incur costs beyond our expectations. Increasingly, we compete for customers based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the information technologies that support our current services and any new services that we may introduce. Failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, compromised systems due to cyber-attack, or our customers’ inability to access or interact with our website and other systems, including internet disruptions, could significantly disrupt our operations, preventing customer orders from being placed or processed. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency, and future freight volumes may decline. In addition, we expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain management service providers. Furthermore, we face risks in implementing new systems to meet customer requirements, reduce costs, or upgrade our service offerings. If replacement systems do not operate as anticipated or contain unforeseen problems, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may also experience operational difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes, and implementing a successful change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships, and financial results. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems, and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers, and the ability of our customers and vendors to access our information technology systems. This could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Volatility in our revenues and expenses and resultant operating results may result in stock price fluctuations. We are subject to a variety of events, such as economic conditions, customers’ business cycles, rate changes, rail network changes, severe network changes, severe weather, and other rail service disruptions, strikes, interest rate and fuel cost fluctuations, and claims, over which we have little or no control. These factors may unexpectedly affect one or more periods’ operating results. Any unexpected reduction in revenues or operating income for a particular period could cause our operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or stockholders. In this event, the trading price or our common stock may fall significantly. 21 Table of Contents Various mechanisms are in place to discourage takeover attempts or change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our charter and bylaws or Tennessee law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to thwart a takeover attempt; • A classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the Board of Directors; • Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • Requiring super-majority voting to effect particular amendments to our restated charter and amended bylaws; • Limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; • Requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders unless the stockholders unanimously agree to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • Prohibiting business combinations with interested stockholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the Tennessee Greenmail Act and the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 