risk factors in Item 1A for further information on competitive pressures we face in our Broadcasting segment. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We use multiple trademarks to distinguish our brands, including Martha Stewart Living, Martha Stewart Everyday, Martha Stewart Collection, Everyday Food, Martha Stewart Weddings, marthastewart.com, Martha Stewart Flowers, Body + Soul, wholeliving.com, Emeril’s and Bam! These and numerous other trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications filed by us for use with a variety of products and other content, both domestically and internationally, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of related trademarks. We file copyrights regarding our proprietary designs and editorial content on a regular basis. We regard our rights in and to our trademarks and materials as valuable assets in the marketing of our products and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement and denigration by third parties. We own and license the rights to many of these marks pursuant to an agreement between us and Ms. Stewart, the description of which is incorporated by reference into Item 13 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website can be found on the Internet at www.marthastewart.com. We have adopted a code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial and accounting officer and controller and persons performing similar functions) and employees, known as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our website www.marthastewart.com. Our proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these documents, as well as certain of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC by accessing marthastewart.com and clicking on Investor Relations and SEC Filings. Please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns that may affect the general economic climate and our performance, the performance of those with whom we do business, and the appetite of consumers for products and publications. Similarly, the price of our stock is impacted by general equity market conditions, the relative attractiveness of our market sector, differences in results of operations from estimates and projections, and other factors beyond our control. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations: 12 Table of Contents Our success depends in part on the popularity of our brands and the reputation and popularity of Martha Stewart, our founder, and Emeril Lagasse. Any adverse reactions to publicity relating to Ms. Stewart or Mr. Lagasse, or the loss of either of their services, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and our ability to maintain or generate a consumer base. While we believe there has been significant consumer acceptance for our products as stand-alone brands, the image, reputation, popularity and talent of Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse remain important factors. Ms. Stewart’s efforts, personality and leadership have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. While we have managed our business without her daily participation at times in the past, the repeated diminution or loss of her services due to disability, death or some other cause, or any repeated or sustained shifts in public or industry perceptions of her, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we recently acquired the assets relating Emeril Lagasse’s businesses other than his restaurants and foundation. The value of these assets is largely related to the ongoing popularity and participation of Mr. Lagasse in the activities related to exploiting these assets. The continued value of these assets would be materially adversely affected if Mr. Lagasse were to lose popularity with the public or be unable to participate in our business, forcing us potentially to write-down a significant amount of the value we paid for these assets. The crisis in the financial markets and sustained weakening of the economy could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could adversely affect the value of our intellectual property assets, hamper our ability to refinance our existing debt or raise additional funds. The economy has been experiencing extreme disruption recently, including extreme volatility and declines in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and a drastic reduction in credit availability. These events have lead to increased unemployment, declines in consumer confidence, discretionary income and spending, and extraordinary and unprecedented uncertainty and instability for many companies, across all industries. This economic downturn is adversely affecting consumer spending and could severely impact many of the companies with whom we do business. We cannot predict the health and viability of the companies with which we do business and upon which we depend for royalty revenues, advertising dollars and credit. These economic conditions and market instability also make it increasingly difficult for us to forecast consumer and product demand trends and companies’ willingness to spend money to advertise in our media properties. An extended period of reduced cash flows could increase our need for credit, at a time when such credit may not be available due to the recent developments in the financial markets. A reduction in cash flows also could also cause us to be in violation of certain debt covenants. We are not able to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and the economic recession. If these economic conditions continue to worsen or persist for an extended period of time, it is likely that our results of operations and cash flows will be negatively impacted leading to deterioration in our financial condition. In addition, we have significant goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We have already incurred an impairment charge with respect to goodwill and certain intangible assets. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may in the future incur additional, and possibly substantial, impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessment inherently involves the exercise of judgment in determining assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may prove 13 Table of Contents assumptions to be wrong with respect to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors. Although we believe the assumptions we have used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one or our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. Differing results may amplify impairment charges in the future. These effects of the current financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results will be difficult to predict and prior results will not likely be indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Our Merchandising business and licensing programs may continue to suffer from downturns in the health and stability of the general economy and housing market, and their adverse impact on our consumers and business relationships. Reduction in the availability of credit, a continued downturn in the housing market, and other negative economic developments, including increased unemployment and negative performance in the stock market in general, have occurred and may continue or become more pronounced in the future. Each of these developments has and could further limit consumers’ discretionary spending or further affect their confidence. These and other adverse consumer trends have lead to reduced spending on general merchandise, homes and home improvement projects — categories in which we license our brands. Further, downturns in consumer spending adversely impact consumer sales overall, resulting in weaker revenues from our licensed products. These trends also may affect the viability and financial health of companies with which we conduct business. Continued slowdown in consumer spending, or going-concern problems for companies with which we do business could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and prospects. Our business is largely dependent on advertising revenues in our publications, online operations and broadcasts. The market for advertising has been adversely affected by the economic downturn. Our failure to attract or retain advertisers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on advertising revenue in our Publishing, Internet and Broadcasting businesses. We cannot control how much or where companies choose to advertise. We have seen a significant downturn in advertising dollars generally in the marketplace, and more competition for the reduced dollars, which has hurt our publications. As a result, fewer advertisers represent a greater proportion of our advertising revenue. We cannot assure how or whether this trend might correct. If advertisers continue to spend less money, or if they advertise elsewhere in lieu of our publications, broadcasts or website, our business and revenues will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition for advertising and consumer demand. We face significant competition from a number of print and website publishers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may enhance their ability to compete in the markets we serve. As advertising dollars have diminished, the competition for advertising dollars has intensified. Competition for advertising revenue in publications is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and scope of readership, reader response to the promotions for advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, circulation, price and customer service, which impact readership audience, circulation revenues and, ultimately, advertising revenues. Because some forms of media have relatively low barriers to entry, we anticipate that additional competitors, some of which have greater resources than we do, may enter these markets and intensify competition. 14 Table of Contents Acquiring or developing additional brands or businesses, and integrating acquired assets, poses inherent financial and other risks and challenges. Last year, we acquired certain assets of Chef Emeril Lagasse. Failure to manage or integrate those assets, or exploit the Emeril brand, could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to acquire other brands. The process of consolidating and integrating acquired operations and assets takes a significant period of time, places a significant strain on resources and could prove to be more expensive and time consuming than we predicted. We may increase expenditures to accelerate the integration process with the goal of achieving longer-term cost savings and improved profitability. We also may be required to manage multiple relationships with third parties as we expand our product offerings and brand portfolio. These developments may increase expenses as we hire additional personnel to manage our growth. These investments require significant time commitments from our senior management and place a strain on their ability to manage our existing businesses. Part of our strategic plan is to acquire other businesses. These transactions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation, and integration. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the field of interactive media. Even if successfully negotiated, closed, and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets. Our Merchandising business has relied heavily on revenue from a single source, the loss of revenue from which has hurt and may continue to hurt our profitability. For the twelve months ended January 31, 2009, the minimum guaranteed royalty payment from Kmart was $20.0 million, significantly less that the $65.0 million we received for the twelve months ended January 31, 2008. This drop in guarantees from Kmart is permanent, and our agreement with Kmart continues only through January 2010. We have not yet earned royalties from other sources in sufficient scope to recoup the loss in guaranteed payments from Kmart. While we continue to diversify our merchandise offerings in an effort to build up alternative royalty streams, we may not be able to earn, from sources other than Kmart, revenue in excess of the reduction of guarantees from our Kmart contract. This shortfall has adversely affected our operating results and business. We are expanding our merchandising and licensing programs into new areas and products, the failure of any of which could diminish the perceived value of our brand, impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new or expand existing retail merchandising programs. We have entered into several new merchandising and licensing agreements in the past few years and have acquired new agreements through our acquisition of the Emeril Lagasse assets. Some of these agreements are exclusive and have a duration of many years. While we require that our licensees maintain the quality of our respective brands through specific contractual provisions, we cannot be certain that our licensees, or their manufacturers and distributors, will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brands. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our licensees are not adversely impacted by general economic or market conditions, including decreased consumer spending and reduced availability of credit. If these companies experience financial hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to pay us royalties or continue selling our product, regardless of their contractual obligations. There is also a risk that our extension into new business areas will meet with disapproval from consumers. We have limited experience in merchandising in some of these business areas. We cannot guarantee that these programs will be fully implemented, or if implemented, that they will be successful. 15 Table of Contents If the licensing or merchandising programs do not succeed, we may be prohibited from seeking different channels for our products due to the exclusive nature and multi-year terms of these agreements. Disputes with new or existing licensees may arise which could hinder our ability to grow or expand our product lines. Disputes also could prevent or delay our ability to collect the licensing revenue that we expect in connection with these products. If such developments occur or our merchandising programs are otherwise not successful, the value and recognition of our brands, as well as our business, financial condition and prospects, could be materially adversely affected. If The Martha Stewart Show fails to maintain a sufficient audience, if adverse trends continue or develop in the television production business generally, or if Martha Stewart were to cease to be able to devote substantial time to our television business, that business would be adversely affected. We also anticipate deriving value from Mr. Lagasse’s television shows, the popularity of which cannot be assured. Our television production business is subject to a number of uncertainties. Our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by: Failure of our television programming to maintain a sufficient audience Television production is a speculative business because revenues derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming depends upon, among other things, the quality of that programming, the strength of stations on which that programming is broadcast, promotion of that programming, the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. The Martha Stewart Show television program has experienced a decline in ratings that reflects both the general decline in daytime broadcast television viewers discussed below, as well as the decision by some major market stations to shift the airing of the show. These developments have negatively impacted our television advertising revenues. If ratings for the show were to further decline, it would adversely affect the advertising revenues we derive from television and may result in the show being broadcast on fewer stations. A ratings decline further than we anticipate could also make it economically inefficient to continue production of the show in the daily one-hour format or otherwise. If production of the show were to cease, we would lose a significant marketing platform for us and our products, as well as cause us to write down our capitalized programming costs. The amount of any writedown would vary depending on a number of factors, including when production ceased and the extent to which we continued to generate revenues from the use of our existing program library. We do not produce the television shows featuring Emeril Lagasse. Nonetheless, Emeril’s failure to maintain or build popularity would result in the loss of a significant marketing platform for us and our products, as well as the loss of anticipated revenue and profits from his television shows. Adverse trends in the television business generally Television revenues may also be affected by a number of other factors, most of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in daytime broadcast television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, strength of the stations on which our programming is broadcast, general economic conditions, increases in production costs, availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and other factors. Any or all of these factors may quickly change, and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. There has been a reduction in advertising dollars generally available and more competition for the reduced dollars across more media platforms. While we currently benefit from our ability to sell advertising on our television programs, if adverse changes occur, we cannot be certain that we will continue to be able to sell this 16 Table of Contents advertising or that our advertising rates can be maintained. Accordingly, if any of these adverse changes were to occur, the revenues we generate from television programming could decline. We have placed emphasis on building an advertising-revenue-based website, dependent on high levels of consumer traffic and resulting page views. Failure to fulfill these undertakings would adversely affect our brand and business prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon the continued development and growth of our Internet business. We have had failures with direct commerce in the past, and only limited experience in building an advertising-revenue-based website. When initial results from the relaunch of the marthastewart.com site in the second quarter of 2007 were below expectations, we made changes to the site. We cannot be certain that those changes will enable us to sustain growth for our website in the long term. In addition, the competition for advertising dollars has intensified as the availability of advertising dollars has diminished. In order for our Internet business to succeed, we must, among other things: • significantly increase our online traffic and advertising revenue; • attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our website; • expand the content, products and tools we offer over our website; • respond to competitive developments while maintaining a distinct brand identity; • attract and retain talent for critical positions; • maintain and form relationships with strategic partners to attract more consumers; • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies; and • bring new product features to market in a timely manner. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives or that our Internet business will be profitable. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to predict, respond to and influence trends in what the public finds appealing, our business will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, programming, content and products, which strongly appeal to a large number of consumers. In order to accomplish this, we must be able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes for ideas, information, concepts, programming, content and products. The strength of our brands and our business units depends in part on our ability to influence tastes through broadcasting, publishing, merchandising and the Internet. We cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past, or that we will be able to respond quickly to changes in the tastes of homemakers and other consumers. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing ideas and content will continue to appeal to the public. New product launches may reduce our earnings or generate losses. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue offering new products and services that successfully gain market acceptance by addressing the needs of our current and future customers. Our efforts to introduce new products or integrate acquired products may not be successful or profitable. The process of internally researching and developing, launching, gaining acceptance and establishing profitability for a new product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product, is both risky and costly. New products generally incur initial operating losses. Costs related to the development 17 Table of Contents of new products and services are generally expensed as incurred and, accordingly, our profitability from year to year may be adversely affected by the number and timing of new product launches. For example, we had a cumulative loss of $15.7 million in connection with Blueprint, which we ceased publishing. Other businesses and brands that we may develop also may prove not to be successful. Our principal Publishing vendors are consolidating and this may adversely affect our business and operations. We rely on certain principal vendors in our Publishing business, and their ability or willingness to sell goods and services to us at favorable prices and other terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability and willingness of these vendors to sell these goods and services to us on such terms. Our principal vendors include paper suppliers, printers, subscription fulfillment houses and national newsstand wholesalers, distributors and retailers. Each of these industries in recent years has experienced consolidation among its principal participants. Further consolidation may result in all or any of the following, which could adversely affect our results of operations: • decreased competition, which may lead to increased prices; • interruptions and delays in services provided by such vendors; and • greater dependence on certain vendors. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in paper and postage costs. In our Publishing business, our principal raw material is paper. Paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. We generally purchase paper from major paper suppliers who adjust the price periodically. We have not entered, and do not currently plan to enter, into long-term forward price or option contracts for paper. Accordingly, significant increases in paper prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. Postage for magazine distribution is also one of our significant expenses. We primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute magazine subscriptions. In recent years, postage rates have increased, and a significant increase in postage prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. We may not be able to recover, in whole or in part, paper or postage cost increases. We may face increased costs for distribution of our magazines to newsstands and bookstores. Distribution of magazines to newsstands and bookstores is conducted primarily through companies, known as wholesalers. Wholesalers have in the past advised us that they intended to increase the price of their services. We have not experienced any material increase to date, however some wholesalers have experienced credit and on-going concern risks. It is possible that other wholesalers likewise may seek to increase the price of their services or face business interruption. An increase in the price of our wholesalers’ services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The need to change wholesalers could cause a disruption or delay in deliveries, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be adversely affected by a continued weakening of newsstand sales. The magazine industry has seen a weakening of newsstand sales during the past few years. A continuation of this decline could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by reducing our circulation revenue and causing us to either incur higher circulation expense to maintain our rate bases, or to reduce our rate bases which could negatively impact our revenue. 18 Table of Contents Our websites and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our and our users’ proprietary or personal information. Our Internet activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and personal information of our users. We endeavor to protect our proprietary information and personal information of our users from third party access. However, it is possible that unauthorized persons may be able to circumvent our protections and misappropriate proprietary or personal information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or remedy any such security breaches. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures and contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas may not be successful or enforceable. Martha Stewart controls our company through her stock ownership, enabling her to elect who sits on our board of directors, and potentially to block matters requiring stockholder approval, including any potential changes of control. Ms. Stewart controls all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing over 90% of our voting power. The Class B common stock has ten votes per share, while Class A common stock, which is the stock available to the public, has one vote per share. Because of this dual-class structure, Ms. Stewart has a disproportionately influential vote. As a result, Ms. Stewart has the ability to control unilaterally the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of our entire board of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and the ability to control our management and affairs. While her 2006 settlement with the SEC bars Ms. Stewart for the five-year period ending in August 2011 from serving at the Company as a director, or as an officer with financial responsibilities, her concentrated control could, among other things, discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses and stockholders. Our intellectual property may be infringed upon or others may accuse us of infringing on their intellectual property, either of which could adversely affect our business and result in costly litigation. Our business is highly dependent upon our creativity and resulting intellectual property. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we depend. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. If we are alleged to have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly, affecting our finances and our reputation. Litigation also diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. If we were to lose such a case, and be required to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology or were forced to pay monetary damages, the results could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. A loss of the services of other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued success depends to a large degree upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives, as well as upon a number of key members of our creative staff. The loss of some of our senior executives or key members of our creative staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. 19 Table of Contents We operate in four highly competitive businesses: Publishing, Merchandising, Internet and Broadcasting each of which subjects us to competitive pressures and other uncertainties. We face intense competitive pressures and uncertainties in each of our four businesses: Publishing, Merchandising, Internet and Broadcasting. Please see “Business — Publishing — Competition,” “Business — Merchandising — Competition,” “Business — Internet — Competition” and “Business — Broadcasting — Competition” in this Annual Report o Form 10-K for a description of competitive risks and uncertainties in the applicable segment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 