ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cytomedix cautions the readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and expectations that may or may not be valid or actually occur. The risk factors that follow may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement. The risks described below are not to be deemed an exhaustive list of all potential risks. The FDA Denied the Company’s Claims in its 510(k) Pre-Market Notification and the Company’s Appeal May Not Be Successful The FDA denied the Company’s claims in its 510(k). The Company has appealed this decision and currently awaits a final ruling from the FDA. There is no assurance that the Company’s efforts to have the original decision reversed or amended to the Company’s satisfaction will be successful. A lack of FDA clearance may make it more difficult to obtain reimbursement codes and/or adversely affect the Company’s ability to implement a significant portion of its business plan. Specifically, the Company may be unable to obtain a significant share of the chronic wound care market. Even with FDA clearance, the Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to obtain Medicare or other third party reimbursement. The Company Has Limited Sources of Working Capital Because the Company was in bankruptcy in 2002, the Company will not be able to obtain debt financing. All working capital required to implement the Company’s business plan will be provided by funds obtained through offerings of its equity securities, and revenues generated by the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will have revenues sufficient to support and sustain its operations through 2007. If the Company does not have sufficient working capital and is unable to generate revenues or raise additional funds, the following may occur: delaying the completion of the Company’s current business plan or significantly reducing the scope of the business plan; delaying some of its development and clinical or marketing testing; delaying its plans to pursue government regulatory and reimbursement approval and/or clearance for its wound treatment technologies; postponing the hiring of new personnel; or, in an extreme situation, ceasing operations. The Company Has a History of Losses The Company has a history of losses, is not currently profitable, and expects to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows for the foreseeable future. The Company may never achieve or maintain profitability. The Company will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to generate these revenues, and it may never achieve profitability. 10 The Company Has a Short Operating History and Limited Operating Experience The Company must be evaluated in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. The Company has only recently begun to implement its current business plan. Thus, the Company has a very limited operating history. Continued operating losses, together with the risks associated with the Company’s ability to gain new customers for its product offerings may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company may also be forced to respond to unforeseen difficulties, such as decreasing demand for its products and services, regulatory requirements and unanticipated market pressures. Since emerging from bankruptcy and continuing through today, the Company is developing a business model that includes protecting its patent position, addressing its third-party reimbursement issues, and developing a sales and marketing program. There can be no assurance that its business model in its current form can accomplish the Company’s stated goals. The Company’s Intellectual Property Assets Are Critical to Its Success The Company regards its patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property assets as critical to its success. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secret and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other similar measures, to establish and protect its intellectual property. The Company attempts to prevent disclosure of its trade secrets by restricting access to sensitive information and requiring employees, consultants, and other persons with access to the Company’s sensitive information to sign confidentiality agreements. Despite these efforts, the Company may not be able to prevent misappropriation of its technology or deter others from developing similar technology in the future. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of its intellectual property assets is difficult and expensive. Litigation has been necessary in the past and may likely be necessary in the future in order to protect the Company’s intellectual property assets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be successful in any litigation matter relating to its intellectual property assets. Continuing litigation or other challenges could result in one or more of its patents being declared invalid. In such a case, any royalty revenues from the affected patents would be adversely affected although the Company may still be able to continue to develop and market its products. The Company’s patent covering the specific gel formulation that is applied as part of the AutoloGel™ System (the “Worden Patent”) expires no earlier than February 2019. The Company’s U.S. Knighton Patent (which is the subject of license agreements between the Company and Medtronic, Inc., DePuy Spine, Inc., Biomet Biologics, Inc., COBE Cardiovascular, Inc., and Harvest Technologies Corporation, among others) expires in November 2009. The Company is pursuing a strategy to obtain FDA clearance and CMS reimbursement, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to establish such a significantly increased share of the wound care market prior to the expiration of the U.S. Knighton Patent in 2009, after which the Company may be more vulnerable to competitive factors because third parties will not then need a license from the Company to perform the methods claimed in the Knighton Patent. The AutoloGel™ Components are Subject to Governmental Regulation The Company’s success is also impacted by factors outside of the Company’s control. The Company’s current therapies may be subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, both federal and state, and in foreign countries by various regulatory agencies. Specifically, the Company’s devices are subject to regulation by the FDA and state regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates drugs, medical devices and biologics that move in interstate commerce and requires that such products receive pre-marketing approval based on evidence of safety and efficacy. The regulations of government health ministries in foreign countries are analogous to those of the FDA in both application and scope. In addition, any change in current regulatory interpretations by, or positions of, state regulatory officials where the AutoloGel™ process is practiced could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell products in those states. The FDA could require the Company to stop selling the components used to prepare AutoloGel™ until it obtains clearance or approval of a specific wound healing claim. While the Company believes that all of said components are legally marketed, the FDA could take the position that the Company cannot market the AutoloGel™ Component Kit or Process Centrifuge for wound healing until the Company has a specific approval or clearance to do so from the FDA. Further, as the Company expands and offers additional products in the United States and in foreign countries, approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to introduction of any such products into the market may be required. The Company has no assurance that it will be able to obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries for these products. Failure to obtain the required approvals would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. 11 Compliance with FDA and other governmental requirements imposes significant costs and expenses. Further, the Company’s failure to comply with these requirements could result in sanctions, limitations on promotional or other business activities, or other adverse effects on the Company’s business. Further, recent efforts to control healthcare costs could negatively effect demand for the Company’s products and services. The Company Could Be Adversely Affected if Customers Cannot Obtain Reimbursement The AutoloGel™ Component Kit and Process Centrifuge are marketed to healthcare providers. Some of these providers, in turn, seek reimbursement from third-party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and other private insurers. Many foreign countries also have comprehensive government managed healthcare programs that provide reimbursement for healthcare products. Under such healthcare systems, reimbursement is often a determining factor in predicting a product’s success, with some physicians and patients strongly favoring only those products for which they will be reimbursed. In order to achieve a viable reimbursement pathway for the AutoloGel™ process components, the Company has conducted a prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled, multi-site clinical trial as approved by the FDA to provide the necessary data as required by CMS, formerly known as the Healthcare Financing Agency. In addition, the 2003 CMS non-coverage decision for “Autologous Blood-Derived Products for the Treatment of Chronic Wounds”, which builds on the 1992 HCFA ruling may have to be dismissed or a carve-out would need to be created in order to make national coverage by Medicare possible. The Company cannot assure that its efforts in this area will be successful and therefore, a significant obstacle to broad third-party reimbursement may remain. Further, even if the Non-Coverage Decision is reversed, the Company cannot guarantee that third-party payers will elect to reimburse treatments using the Company’s products or processes or, if such reimbursement is approved, that the level of reimbursement granted will be sufficient to cover the cost of the product or process to the physician or to the patient. Healthcare providers’ inability to obtain third-party reimbursement for the treatment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s success. Royalty Revenues Are Unpredictable While the Company currently has several primary licensing agreements that are expected to generate on-going royalty revenues, the Company cannot currently reasonably predict the magnitude of those revenues. Because Cytomedix’s licensing activities are recent, it is premature to predict the resulting royalty streams from these licensing agreements. Furthermore, royalty streams from these agreements are entirely dependent on the sales of its licensees and are therefore outside the control of Cytomedix. Past levels of royalty revenues from these agreements are not necessarily an indication of future activity. The Success of the AutoloGel™ System Is Dependent on Acceptance by the Medical Community The commercial success of the Company’s products and processes will depend upon the medical community and patients accepting the therapies as safe and effective. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept the therapies as safe and effective, the Company’s ability to sell the products and processes will be materially and adversely affected. While acceptance by the medical community may be fostered by broad evaluation via peer-reviewed literature, the Company may not have the resources to facilitate sufficient publication. The Company May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The future success of the Company depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, including sales representatives. The Company has retained a team of highly qualified officers and consultants, but the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully integrate these officers and consultants into its operations, retain all of them, or be successful in recruiting additional personnel as needed. The Company’s inability to do so will materially and adversely affect the business prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s ability to maintain and provide additional services to its existing customers depends upon its ability to hire and retain business development and scientific and technical personnel with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in cellular therapy technologies. Competition for such personnel is intense; the Company competes with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and healthcare companies. The Company’s inability to hire additional qualified personnel may lead to higher recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for such personnel. These increased costs may reduce the Company’s profit margins or make hiring new personnel impractical. 12 Legislative and Administrative Action May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry in the United States to fundamental change. The Company cannot predict what other legislation relating to its business or to the health care industry may be enacted, including legislation relating to third-party reimbursement, or what effect such legislation may have on the Company’s business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company expects federal and state legislators to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems and possibly adopt legislation affecting fundamental changes in the health care delivery system. Such laws may contain provisions that may change the operating environment for its targeted customers including hospitals and managed care organizations. Health care industry participants may react to such legislation by curtailing or deferring expenditures and initiatives, including those relating to the Company’s products. Future legislation could result in modifications to the existing public and private health care insurance systems that would have a material adverse effect on the reimbursement policies discussed above. The Company Could Be Affected by Malpractice Claims Providing medical care entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other claims. The Company does not control or direct the practice of medicine by physicians or health care providers who use the products and does not assume responsibility for compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to physicians. The Company cannot guarantee that claims, suits or complaints relating to the use of the AutoloGel™ components and treatment administered by physicians will not be asserted against the Company in the future. The production, marketing and sale, and use of the AutoloGel™ Component Kit and Process Centrifuge entail risks that product liability claims will be asserted against the Company. These risks cannot be eliminated, and the Company could be held liable for any damages that result from adverse reactions or infectious disease transmission. Such liability could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company currently maintains professional and product liability insurance coverage, but the Company cannot give assurance that the coverage limits of this insurance would be adequate to protect against all potential claims. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain or maintain professional and product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. AutoloGel™ Has Existing Competition in the Marketplace In the market for biotechnology products, the Company faces competition from pharmaceutical companies, biopharmaceutical companies and other competitors. Other companies have developed or are developing products that may be in direct competition with the AutoloGel™ process. Biotechnology development projects are characterized by intense competition. Thus, the Company cannot assure any investor that it will be the first to the market with any newly developed products or that it will successfully be able to market these products. If the Company is not able to participate and compete in the cellular therapy market, the Company’s financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, larger marketing staffs and more experience in commercializing products. Recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, may be the basis for developments that will compete with the Company’s products. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The average daily trading volume in Cytomedix Common stock is relatively low. As long as this condition continues, it could be difficult or impossible to sell a significant number of shares of Common stock at any particular time at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of Common stock could lower the prevailing market price of the Company’s Common stock. This would limit or perhaps prevent the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of securities. Additionally, the Company has significant numbers of outstanding warrants and options that, if exercised and sold, could put additional downward pressure on the Common stock price. The Company is Subject to Anti-Takeover Provisions and Laws. Provisions in Cytomedix’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without the approval of the board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of the Company’s outstanding voting Common stock or delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect the Common stock price. 13 Purchases of the Company’s Common Stock Are Subject to the SEC's Penny Stock Rules. Generally, any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share is defined as a Penny Stock. Penny Stocks are subject to special rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving Penny Stock. Cytomedix Common stock is currently defined as a Penny Stock, and the Company is uncertain if the market price of its common stock will ever be above $5.00 per share. As a result of its characterization as a Penny Stock, the market liquidity for the Company’s Common stock may be adversely affected by the Penny Stock rules and regulations. This could restrict an investor's ability to sell the common stock in a secondary market. The rules governing Penny Stock require the delivery, prior to any Penny Stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the Penny Stock market and the risks associated therewith, and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell Penny Stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the Penny Stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and in writing before or with the customer confirmation. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the Penny Stock held in the account and information on the limited market in Penny Stock. The additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may discourage them from effecting transactions in the Company’s Common stock, which could severely limit the liquidity of the Common stock and the ability of shareholders to sell the Common stock in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 