ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Adverse U.S. and global economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations. During 2008 and continuing in 2009, the U.S. and global economies slowed dramatically as a result of a variety of serious problems that created nearly unprecedented circumstances, including turmoil in the credit and financial markets, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions and the Big Three U.S. automakers, the state of the housing markets and volatility in fuel prices and worldwide stock markets. In 2010, the U.S. and global economies stabilized, with the U.S. experiencing slow growth in gross domestic product amid mixed positive and negative economic indicators. Companies like ours in the transportation industry are cyclical, and our operating results are subject to changing economic conditions, which are beyond our control. These economic conditions could cause many of our existing and potential customers to reduce or discontinue their use of our products and services for some time and possibly be unable to meet contractual terms or payment obligations with us, which in turn would harm our business by adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the duration of these economic conditions, the extent to which they may worsen or the impact they will have on our customers, vendors or business. The economic recession negatively impacted our freight volumes and rates in 2008 and 2009 and thus our income from operations while the uncertain economic climate in 2010 limited our ability to increase linehaul rates to customers and increase income from operations. Uncertain economic conditions, including those currently faced by the U.S. and global economies, can limit or delay our ability to increase rates to our customers, even when we face increased rates from our transportation providers. A further weakening of the economy could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and results of operations. Changes in freight rates, as a result of competition in our industry and pricing strategies of our transportation suppliers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our logistics segment competes primarily against other domestic asset-based and non-asset based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, shipping departments of our customers and other freight forwarders. Our intermodal segment competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers on flat cars, and containerized intermodal rail services offered by railroads and other intermodal service providers. We also face competition from Internet-based freight exchanges, or electronic bid environments, that provide an online marketplace for buying and selling supply chain services. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow them to withstand better an economic downturn, reduce their prices more easily than we can or expand or enhance the marketing of their products. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers are increasingly soliciting competitive bids for transportation services from a number of competitors. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. Future downward pressure on pricing could adversely affect the yields of our transportation services. Rate increases, particularly when taken by our railroad, motor transportation and ocean carrier suppliers, may also have an adverse impact if our brokerage operations are unable to obtain commensurate price increases from our customers, on a timely basis or at all. Because transportation costs represent such a significant portion of our costs, even a relatively small increase in transportation costs, if we are unable to pass them through to customers or if there is a delay between the time that the supplier assesses higher charges and the time we are able to begin collecting higher charges from our customers because of competitive pressures or otherwise, could have a significant effect on our margins and operating income. Transportation rate increases may also slow overall demand for transportation services and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our November 2009 arrangements with Union Pacific which replaced significant portions of our Union Pacific legacy agreement have adversely affected our revenues and compressed margins and may continue to adversely affect our results of operation. As discussed in Note 4 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements and the MD&A, on November 3, 2009, we entered into agreements with Union Pacific under which, among other things, the rates, terms and conditions of our legacy contract with Union Pacific no longer apply to our domestic big box shipments, and rates including fuel surcharges, payable by Pacer to Union Pacific for domestic big box shipments have begun to gradually adjust to “market” levels over the two year period from November 2009 until October 2011. To the extent that such adjustments cannot be passed through to our customers or there is a delay in passing through these increases to customers, our margins and profitability would decrease. As anticipated, under these November 2009 arrangements with Union Pacific, substantially all of the domestic east-west big box business we historically handled for IMC customers on the Union Pacific network transitioned away from us by the end of the first quarter of 2010. Such business accounted for $26.6 million, $248.6 million and $391.3 million of our total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition to the loss of revenues from IMC east-west big box traffic, the transition of these IMC volumes has changed our historical equipment flows, requiring us to intensify efforts to match freight between origins and destinations and undertake further efforts to maintain equipment balance and margins per load across our entire container fleet. Any failure or delay in managing our equipment flows could result in lower pricing to maintain the flow of equipment, higher empty repositioning charges or similar activities related to equipment balance, which would negatively affect our operating costs and compress margins. Our business and results of operations could be further adversely affected when the remaining portions of our legacy contract with Union Pacific expire in October 2011. Under our legacy Union Pacific agreement, we provide transportation management services for specified international customer (i.e., ocean carrier) shipments (i.e., in 20-, 40- and 45-foot containers). Intermodal revenues from these ocean carrier customers accounted for 12.0%, 8.4%, and 10.6% of our consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In October 2011, the historical rates we pay under the legacy Union Pacific agreement for these international customer shipments expire. While the November 2009 arrangements with Union Pacific established terms and conditions that apply after the October 2011 expiration date of the legacy agreement with respect to our providing transportation services for international customers, one or more of our larger international steamship line customers may transition away from us, and as a result, our consolidated revenues and margins in that line of business would be materially impacted. The profitability of our fleet of owned and leased railcars may be adversely affected when our legacy agreement with Union Pacific expires. Approximately 89% of our railcar equipment is leased under operating leases, which are included in the operating leases line item in the contractual obligations table under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we were to provide notice of non-renewal, the minimum lease payments (including the potential guaranteed portion of the residual value which may be payable) could be substantial depending on the year of non-renewal as further discussed under “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” All of our owned and leased railcars are in “free running” service on railroads in North America, and generate revenue while moving on railroads throughout North America to haul not only our own intermodal containers but also those of the railroads and their other customers. Railcar revenues were $45.5 million and $44.8 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Under the November 2009 arrangements with Union Pacific, the revenues that we receive from Union Pacific after the October 11, 2011, termination date of our legacy agreement will decrease. We are evaluating our alternatives with respect to our railcar fleet, including our ability to sell the owned railcars, exercise purchase options and sell our currently leased railcars or terminate or assign the railcar leases. As of December 31, 2010, the net book value of the owned railcars was 17 Table of Contents approximately $13.6 million and capitalized maintenance costs associated with the railcars was approximately $10.5 million. Any sale of railcars (including those sold after exercise of a purchase option) or lease termination may result in gain or loss depending upon the terms of the transactions. To the extent that we cannot manage our railcar fleet profitably in the future, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the automotive industry which has experienced significant declines as a result of economic cycles. Approximately 26% of our revenues in 2010, 19% in 2009 and 20% in 2008 were from customers in the automotive industry. We experienced severe declines in automotive industry volumes through the first half of 2009. During 2008 and 2009, the Big Three U.S. auto manufacturers faced significant financial problems, with Chrysler and General Motors each receiving emergency funding from the U.S. government in late 2008 and each filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and emerging from bankruptcy during 2009 as substantially smaller entities. While our automotive volumes have rebounded since August 2009 from earlier lows, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue in the future. Besides the traffic reductions from the Big Three U.S. auto manufacturers, a large number of our customers are also suppliers of automotive products whose own viability and operating results are tied to the long-term viability and operating results of automotive manufacturers. If the business of North American automobile manufacturers and suppliers fails to continue to improve or begins to deteriorate again, our revenues, both from the automobile manufacturers and suppliers of automotive products, as well as our results of operations and cash flows, would be adversely affected. We service portions of our automotive customers on short term rate agreements, which if they expire without replacement could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Union Pacific, CSX and KCSM issue rate quotations which enable us to provide our north/south transportation services to transportation intermediaries serving the Big Three automotive customers. We expect that our rail carriers involved in this traffic will continue to extend multi-year rates to us to support the automotive business, but no assurance can be given that such rate quotes and other terms will be issued or, if issued, that they will be on acceptable terms. Approximately 26% of our revenues in 2010, 19% in 2009 and 20% in 2008 were from customers in the automotive industry. Our failure to maintain favorable arrangements with our rail carriers with respect to the continued provision of our north/south Mexico automotive business in the future would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. The borrowing base formula and other terms under our 2010 Credit Agreement could limit the amount of borrowings available to us thereunder and may limit our business and financing activities and our flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions. Our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2010 Credit Agreement”), entered into on December 30, 2010, provides for a $125 million revolving credit facility, subject to increase to $175 million if certain conditions are met. While the 2010 Credit Agreement is expected to adequately provide for our capital needs, the amount of borrowings available to us thereunder is determined daily through a detailed borrowing base formula which is calculated on a monthly basis based on 85% of our eligible accounts receivable and certain equipment and an availability reserve, each as defined in the 2010 Credit Agreement. As a result, changes in the amount of our eligible account receivables and equipment or the value thereof could limit the amount of borrowings available to us under the facility and thus our liquidity. In addition, the amount of the availability reserve is subject to increase at the permitted discretion of the administrative agent which could further limit the amount of our available borrowings and our liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, $69.5 million was available under the 2010 Credit Agreement pursuant to the borrowing base formula, net of $13.4 million in outstanding loans and $21.3 million of outstanding letters of credit. 18 Table of Contents If outstanding borrowings (including outstanding letters of credit) exceed the available borrowing base at any time, we must immediately repay any borrowings in excess of the borrowing base (or in some cases cash collateralize outstanding letters of credit). In such event we may not have available other sources of liquidity to make such payment which would result in an event of default under the 2010 Credit Agreement. The 2010 Credit Agreement includes other operating and financial restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or to engage in other business activities by restricting or limiting our ability to: (1) make loans or investments (including acquisitions) and equity distributions (cash dividends or repurchases of stock); (2) prepay, redeem or purchase debt; (3) incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (4) incur additional indebtedness; (5) amend or otherwise change debt and other material agreements; (6) engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; (7) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (8) change our primary business. However, in the case of investments (including acquisitions) and equity distributions (cash dividends or repurchases of stock), the 2010 Credit Agreement does not limit the dollar amount of investments or equity distributions that we may make so long as the Company is not in default under the agreement and certain availability thresholds are exceeded and, in certain cases, subject to our satisfying a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0. We will also be required to comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.1 to 1.0 if the availability under the facility falls below certain other specified thresholds. The 2010 Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and is secured by a first priority, perfected security interest in substantially all of the present and future tangible and intangible assets, intercompany debt, stock or other equity interests owned by us, our domestic subsidiaries, and a portion of the stock or other equity interests of certain of our foreign subsidiaries. A breach of any of these representations restrictions, or covenants, could result in a default under the 2010 Credit Agreement. Other events of default include our failure to pay amounts due under the 2010 Credit Agreement, the occurrence of a default with respect to any indebtedness of the company and its subsidiaries resulting in, or which permits, the acceleration, repurchase, repayment or redemption of such indebtedness, certain insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings, certain ERISA events, unpaid judgments over a specified amount, or a change in control as defined in the 2010 Credit Agreement. A default under the 2010 Credit Agreement (which would trigger a cross-default under some of our equipment leases) could, depending on actions taken by our lenders and lessors, have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. If we are in default under the 2010 Credit Agreement and/or our other financing arrangements and our obligations thereunder were declared immediately due and payable, we would not have sufficient cash flow from operations or other available sources of liquidity to repay such obligations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 2 to the notes of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the terms of the 2010 Credit Agreement. Our business may be adversely affected by any adverse change to relationships with railroad service providers upon the expiration or renewal of such contracts. Our multi-year rail contracts, which have varied expiration dates, contain favorable provisions that we believe enable us to provide competitive transportation rates and services to our customers. Our loss of one or more of these contracts or other rail carrier contracts or failure to enter into renewal or replacement contracts with comparably favorable terms upon expiration of the current contract or contracts could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. While we expect to be able to continue to obtain competitive terms and conditions from our railroad vendors, no assurance can be given that such terms and conditions will be comparable to those in our current rail contracts. See “Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected when the remaining portions of our legacy agreement with Union Pacific expire in October 2011.” 19 Table of Contents Union Pacific has become the primary source for the containers used in our intermodal operations and any failure by Union Pacific to provide us with containers as and when required would adversely affect our revenues and ability to service our customers. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we assigned and Union Pacific assumed all of our future lease obligations for the majority of 53-foot, 110-inch containers leased from third party equipment lessors. At the same time, we entered into an equipment lease agreement with Union Pacific pursuant to which we lease 53-ft, 110-inch Pacer-branded intermodal containers from Union Pacific to support our domestic intermodal traffic. Under these arrangements, Union Pacific has assumed direct maintenance and repair responsibility for the containers, including those we are now leasing from Union Pacific, and has become the primary supplier and servicer of the containers used in our business. Union Pacific is also responsible for maintaining all of our chassis used on the Union Pacific network. While we have the ability under these arrangements to increase or decrease our equipment fleet from time to time, historically, procuring new chassis and containers, which are manufactured overseas, has required several months lead time, and we expect the schedule for obtaining additional equipment under the November 2009 Union Pacific arrangements to be similar to our historical experience. Although the Union Pacific equipment arrangements are not intended to, and we do not expect that it will, affect our access to or control over the intermodal equipment necessary to support our business, we do not have a long history of working under the Union Pacific equipment arrangements and cannot predict their full impact. The refusal or failure of Union Pacific to provide us with additional containers as and when required, or its failure to adequately and timely service our containers or chassis, would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, capacity or services, we could lose customers and revenues. We are dependent upon rail, truck and ocean transportation services and transportation equipment such as chassis and containers provided by independent third parties, including Union Pacific as described above. We, along with competitors in our industry, have experienced equipment and capacity shortages in the past, particularly during peak shipping season in October and November. We also depend upon the rail carriers to provide sufficient rail slots on the train to transport our containers and access to the rail terminal for the delivery of our containers for shipment and ocean carriers to provide vessel capacity and containers for international shipments. From time to time, as with other users of rail service, we have not been able to obtain sufficient gate reservations for all containers to be shipped on a particular day and have had to wait for the gate reservation necessary to allow the container to enter the rail terminal and to be loaded on or off of the train. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs and schedules, customers may seek to have their transportation and logistics needs met by other providers on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, the intermodal industry from time to time faces excess demand for the current rail network size, which causes network congestion and service delays and allows rail carriers to implement rate increases and to limit volumes. In addition, the trucking industry, including the local drayage community, has difficulty from time to time maintaining a consistent supply of qualified drivers. Shortages such as this may cause our motor transportation suppliers to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our cost of providing motor transportation, including the local cartage portion of an intermodal move, to our customers. From time to time, steamship lines have experienced limited vessel space and international container shortages as occurred in 2010. Driver shortages and tight rail and vessel capacity could adversely impact our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal and logistics service offerings. 20 Table of Contents Network changes, lane closures, carrier consolidation and other reductions or deterioration in rail services could increase costs, decrease demand for our intermodal services and adversely affect our operating results. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for substantially all of the intermodal transportation services that we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. As a result, any reduction or elimination of service to a particular market may limit our ability to serve some of our customers. Furthermore, reductions in service by the railroads are likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services that we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness and overall attractiveness of our intermodal product. Increases in the cost of rail service reduce some of the advantages of intermodal transportation compared to truck and other transportation modes, and may reduce demand for our intermodal services. Rail carriers may also engage in further consolidations. Rail consolidations have caused service disruptions in the past and would further reduce service choices and bargaining power for rail customers. Further consolidation among railroads might adversely affect intermodal transportation and our results of operations. From time to time, our railroad suppliers have experienced train resource shortages, operating inefficiencies and high demand for rail transportation that resulted in increased transit times, terminal congestion and decreased equipment velocity, all of which increase our costs, decrease equipment capacity, impact customer service and create a challenging operating environment. To the extent that we operate on rail carriers that experience poor service performance relative to other rail carriers, demand for our intermodal services may be adversely affected, and customers may switch to alternate providers to avoid intermodal transportation delays. Work stoppages, weather related issues or other disruptions beyond our transportation providers’ control that disrupt transportation network could adversely affect our operating results. As transportation services are provided through a network of rail and trucking transportation providers, a disruption in one area or in one sector can affect the flow of traffic over the entire network. We have experienced severe service disruptions due to hurricanes, flooding and other severe weather conditions that hinder the railroads’ and local trucking companies’ ability to provide transportation services and negatively impact our operating results. For example, Hurricane Alex caused severe track damage, disrupted rail service in Mexico for 45 days in July and August 2010, and had a negative effect on our equipment flows, network operations and financial results in the third quarter of 2010. In addition, our business in the past has been and in the future could be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees, strikes and labor renegotiations affecting seaports, or by a work stoppage at one or more railroads or local trucking companies servicing rail terminals, including work disruptions involving owner operators under contract with our local trucking operations. These network disruptions, most of which are beyond our control, result in terminal embargoes, disrupt equipment and freight flows, depress volumes and revenues, increase costs and have other negative effects on our operations and financial results. Other work stoppages, slowdowns or disruptions, such as those that could result from an act of terrorism or war, are beyond our control and could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows in both our intermodal and logistics segments, particularly if they have a material effect on major railroad interchange facilities or areas through which significant amounts of our rail shipments pass, such as the Los Angeles and Chicago gateways. Credit market disruptions may adversely affect our customers and as a result our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Disruptions and constraints in the financial and credit markets, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009, may adversely affect our business and our financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to purchase our services for an unknown, and perhaps lengthy, period, result in customers extending times for payment, and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. Slower customer payment time could also adversely impact the amount of eligible 21 Table of Contents accounts receivable for purposes of the borrowing base formula under the 2010 Credit Agreement and thus the amount of available borrowings thereunder. Furthermore, as we are moving products and services for other businesses, the tight credit markets may reduce funds available to consumers and businesses purchasing from our shipping customers and thereby reduce demand for our shipper’s products and services and their consequent need for our transportation services. Likewise, general concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause consumers and others to reduce the amount of products and services they purchase from our shipping customers, which would translate into reduced shipping volumes, even if consumers, businesses and shippers have cash or if credit is available to them. Our revenues could be reduced by the loss of major customers. We have derived, and believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from our largest customers. In 2010, three customers accounted for approximately 14.5%, 12.0%, and 10.1%, of our revenues and our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of our revenues. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant change in their shipping patterns could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and prospects. Rapid changes in fuel costs and disconnects between customer and carrier fuel cost recovery methodologies could impact our profitability. Fuel costs can be very volatile. We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of the higher fuel costs we are charged by our service providers. These programs with customers generally adjust automatically every week depending on the cost of fuel. Similarly, the fuel surcharges payable by us to carriers also usually adjust weekly. However, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel costs incurred by us in our motor carrier operations or payable by us to our carriers in our brokerage operations and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. Furthermore, some programs with customers use a fuel surcharge methodology, such as a per mileage reimbursement, that differs from the methodology used to calculate amounts payable to carriers, which are usually a percentage of the linehaul rate that varies based on prevailing fuel rates. In some cases, regional fuel costs incurred by us vary from national fuel costs used to determine the fuel surcharge received from customers. As a result, there can be differences between the fuel surcharge amounts that we recover from customers and the amounts that we must pay to carriers. Rapid changes in fuel costs and variations in fuel surcharge recovery methodologies that do not allow us to fully recover of fuel-related costs from customers could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. As of December 31, 2010, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings. We are exposed to claims related to property damage, personal injury, cargo loss and damage and workers’ compensation. We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers. The cost of such insurance has varied over the past five years, reflecting the level of our operations, the insurance environment for our industry, our claim experience and our self-retained (deductible) level. We have maintained self-retained (deductible) levels for our public liability exposures to optimize cost efficiency, reflecting our claims experience and the insurance environment for our industry. We are also responsible for legal expenses within our deductible levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We currently accrue the estimated probable loss for incurred and reported but not yet paid claim amounts, and regularly evaluate and adjust our claim accruals to reflect actual experience. If the ultimate results differ from our estimates, we could incur costs in excess of accrued amounts. To cover claims and expense in excess of our deductible levels, we maintain insurance with insurance companies that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Port of Los Angeles employee driver requirements could adversely affect our business and operations by requiring us to significantly change how we provide our services at the port or cause us to cease doing business at the port. The port of Los Angeles clean truck plan has a requirement that would require trucking companies to increase the percentage of employee drivers servicing the port of Los Angeles from 20% by December 31, 2009 to 100% by December 31, 2013. While enforcement of this and other provisions of the port of Los Angeles plan have been suspended until litigation about these provisions is resolved, should this element of the port plan become effective, we would either have to change from our current owner-operator structure to an employee driver structure to service the port of Los Angeles or cease business at this location. Operating a fleet to service the port of Los Angeles and an independent owner-operator fleet for the rest of our local transportation network could result in operational inefficiencies, increased costs, and reduced profitability. In addition, no assurance can be given that other California ports will not impose similar employee driver requirements. Our transportation suppliers who are also our competitors could provide preferences to others, including their own competing operations, which in both cases would decrease our profitability. Our operations compete in some cases with the intermodal service offerings of our rail transportation providers and their affiliated equipment provider operations as well as with the other transportation services providers who utilize our services. For example, CSX Intermodal and Union Pacific, two of our primary rail transportation providers, offer transcontinental and other long-haul intermodal transportation services that compete with our intermodal services. Our rail transportation providers may provide preferences to their internal service offerings and container capacity or to other customers that are not competitors or that use the rail supplier’s containers, which may provide higher margins to the rail supplier. These preferences could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations and on our ability to continue to provide efficient intermodal services to our customers. If we fail to develop, integrate, upgrade or replace our information technology systems, we may lose orders and customers or incur costs beyond our expectations. Increasingly, we compete for customers based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the information technologies that support our current services or any new services that we may introduce. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or our customers’ inability to access or interact with our website and other systems (including as a result of internet disruptions) could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent our customers from placing orders, or cause us to lose orders or customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future freight volumes may decline. In addition, we expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain management service providers. If we fail to hire qualified personnel to implement and maintain our information technology systems or fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes, meet the demands of our customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose orders and customers which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we face risks in implementing new systems to meet customer requirements, reduce costs or upgrade our service offerings. If replacement systems (such as our new internally developed transportation management and operations system implemented in July 2010) do not operate as anticipated or contain unforeseen problems, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may also experience operational difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. 23 Table of Contents If we have difficulty attracting and retaining independent contractors and agents, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely extensively on the services of independent contractors and, to a lesser extent, agents to provide our local and port drayage services. We rely on a fleet of vehicles which are owned and operated by independent trucking contractors as well as agents representing groups of trucking contractors to transport customers’ goods by truck. Although we believe our relationships with our independent contractors and agents are good, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them. Contracts with independent contractors and agents are, in most cases, terminable upon short notice by either party. If an agent terminates its relationship with us, some customers and independent contractors with which such agent has a direct relationship may also terminate their relationship with us. We may have difficulty replacing our independent contractors and agents with equally qualified persons. We compete with transportation service companies and trucking companies for the services of agents and with trucking companies for the services of independent contractors and drivers. The pool of contractors, drivers and agents is limited and shortages of independent trucking operators have occurred from time to time. Therefore competition from other transportation service companies and trucking companies for such services can increase the price we must pay to obtain services from contractors, drivers and agents. In addition, because independent contractors are not employees, they may not be as loyal to our company, requiring us to pay more to retain their services and to implement aggressive recruitment efforts to offset turnover. If we are unable to attract or retain independent contractors and agents or need to increase the amount paid for their services, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected and we could experience difficulty increasing our business volume. We, our suppliers and our customers are subject to changes in government regulation which could result in additional costs and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. The transportation industry is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect its economics. Our trucking and intermodal equipment operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage are subject to regulation by the DOT and various state and local agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and insurance requirements. In recent years, the trucking and intermodal industries have adjusted to changes in hours of service regulations and new requirements for intermodal equipment providers. Changes in transportation laws and regulations may impose more stringent requirements on us and our suppliers, require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for our transportation services or require the outlay of significant additional payments. Additional expenditures incurred by us, or by our suppliers and passed on to us, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Emissions reducing rules and regulations have also affected our trucking operations. The CARB as well as the Ports of Long Beach, Los Angeles and Oakland have implemented tractor emission restrictions and truck bans that prohibit operation of older engine models and other “clean truck” regulations. Our California owner-operator fleets comply with the emission standards in order to allow continued access to the ports and ramps. Among other increased costs, we have been and will continue to be required to pay the owner-operators higher fees for their services due to expected demand for the limited supply of emission compliant tractors and the owner-operators’ need and desire to recover the increased lease or acquisition costs of such tractors. Our ability to comply with these governmental and port requirements and meet our customers’ requirements, maintain our competitive position and preserve our profitability would be adversely impacted if we are unable to bring a sufficient number of emission-compliant trucks into our contractor fleet. Furthermore, our profitability will also be adversely affected if we are unable to collect higher charges from our customers to cover our increased costs from complying with these regulations. Similar to the “clean truck” regulations adopted by CARB and the Ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland affecting our California drayage operations, we may be subject to climate change regulation, including restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. 24 Table of Contents Such regulation could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including automakers and other manufacturers, and thereby affect demand for our transportation services. Our own international freight forwarding operations as well as some of our steamship line customers are subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, U.S. Customs and other international, foreign, federal and state authorities. Regulatory changes in the ocean shipping or international freight forwarding industries could adversely affect our freight forwarding operations or have a material impact on the competitiveness or efficiency of operations of our various ocean carrier customers, which could adversely affect our business. We are not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or us in particular. Although government regulation that affects us and our competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed to customers, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our operating practices or services provided to our customers and may result in additional costs, all of which could have an adverse effect on us. A determination by regulators that our independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors. In the future these authorities could be successful in asserting this position, or the interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors could change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, worker’s compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. Our business model assumes that our independent contractors are not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above increased costs would impair our competitiveness in the industry and materially adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to comply with or lose any required licenses, governmental regulators could assess penalties against us or issue a cease and desist order against our operations which are not in compliance. Our rail and highway brokerage operations are licensed by the DOT as a broker in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. The DOT has established requirements for acting in this capacity, including insurance and surety bond requirements. Our local cartage operations are regulated as motor carriers by the DOT and various state agencies, subjecting these operations to insurance, surety bond, safety and other regulatory requirements. Our international NVOCC and freight forwarding operation is licensed as an ocean transportation intermediary by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission regulates ocean freight forwarders and non-vessel operating common carriers like us that contract for space with the actual vessel operator and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the United States. Non-vessel operating common carriers must publish and maintain tariffs for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United States. The Federal Maritime Commission may enforce these regulations by instituting proceedings seeking the assessment of penalties for violations of these regulations. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the United States, the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than in the United States. Our international freight forwarding operation is also licensed, regulated and subject to periodic audit as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of Treasury in each United States customs district in which we do business. In other jurisdictions where we perform customs brokerage services, we are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations of any of these governmental regulators, and any resultant suspension or loss of our licenses, could result in 25 Table of Contents penalties or a cease and desist order against any operations that are not in compliance. Such an occurrence would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Changes to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s processes for measuring the safety of a motor carrier’s operations have created uncertainty in the trucking industry, which could result in lower revenues, higher costs and have other adverse effects on our financial results. In 2010, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration adopted the new Compliance, Safety, Accountability Operations Model, referred to as CSA 2010, to measure a carrier’s and its drivers’ safety performance. The measurement system previously in effect measured four broad categories of safety compliance whereas CSA 2010 measures seven Behavioral Analyses Safety Improvement Categories (BASIC) scores. In December 2010, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration began posting scores for five of the seven BASIC categories. Our brokerage operations are considering revised processes for assessing carriers’ safety scores and selecting safe carriers, but there is uncertainty in the industry as to the reliability of the new scores, which scores should be emphasized in evaluating carriers, systems for tracking the expanded list of scores, and processes for evaluating carriers. With this uncertainty, a transportation broker like Pacer may experience higher administrative costs and greater exposure to potential liability for negligence claims arising from accidents involving its carriers. Our own trucking operations face the risk of elevated scores in new BASIC categories, particularly with respect to categories that were not previously subject to evaluation. If our trucking operations fail to maintain BASIC scores that are satisfactory relative to its peers, customers may decide to engage other carriers for their volumes, and we may experience higher insurance costs and potential liability for accident claims. In addition, CSA 2010 is expected to result in motor carriers terminating their relationships with drivers with poor safety or driving records due to the impact that individual drivers have on their BASIC scores. Thus, CSA 2010 may have the effect of reducing the pool of drivers and result in higher costs to carriers and their customers. Should we experience higher liability exposure, higher costs to administer our carrier and driver evaluation and safety programs, fewer shipments from customers or increased payments to drivers or carriers as a result of the new CSA 2010 program, our operating results, liquidity and financial condition could be adversely affected. Access to the funds available under our credit facility and to the public capital markets could be adversely affected by turmoil and uncertainty in credit markets generally. The turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets during 2008 and 2009 resulted in significant tightening of the credit and capital markets such that the ability to obtain new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. Also during 2008 and 2009 several large financial institutions failed or became dependent on the assistance of the U.S. federal government to continue to operate. When we refinanced our credit facility in late December 2010, the lenders participating in the loan were reduced from eleven to two. Although we believe that the banks under the 2010 Credit Agreement have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that these banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If either of the banks in our lending group were to fail or otherwise fail to provide us funds as required under the 2010 Credit Agreement, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under the 2010 Credit Agreement was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our operations or capital needs. If it became necessary to access additional capital through public equity or debt capital markets, it is possible that any such alternatives would be on terms less favorable than under the 2010 Credit Agreement, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to access the credit or capital markets as and when required, we may be forced to delay or reduce capital expenditures or take other actions that may adversely affect our results of operations and growth of our business. In addition, our shareholders could suffer substantial dilution if we were required to access the equity capital markets given the current depressed price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Changes in shipping patterns that reduce container volumes into West Coast ports could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. A significant portion of the intermodal shipments we handle are transcontinental moves originating from West Coast ports. For example, approximately 13%, of our total volumes in 2010 were from the West Coast ports. Furthermore, our warehouse and distribution operation is concentrated in Southern California, and a significant portion of our local cartage revenues derive from our Southern California terminals. Reductions in West Coast shipping volume could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The development of a Suez Canal route from China, the planned expansion of the Panama Canal that would allow an all-water route from China to East Coast ports, and/or onerous port and other West Coast regulations may result in the diversion of volumes from West Coast ports. Developments such as these and others that would reduce shipments into the West Coast ports could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. If we lose key personnel and qualified technical staff, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be weakened which could adversely affect our operating results and ability to grow our business. We believe that the attraction and retention of qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. Because our senior management team has unique experience within the transportation industry, it could be difficult to replace them without adversely affecting our business operations. In addition, certain members of our management team have fostered key relationships with our suppliers and customers. Such relationships are especially important for an asset-light company such as ours, and loss of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Because we have an extensive relationship with APL Limited, our business and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected if APL Limited failed or refused to comply with its contractual commitments. Pursuant to a long-term contract expiring in May 2019, APL Limited, the former owner of portions of our intermodal business, supplies us with chassis from its equipment fleet for the transport of international freight on behalf of other international shippers. In addition, we transport APL Limited's international cargo on our intermodal network to locations in the United States using chassis and equipment supplied by APL Limited. The additional volume attributable to the transport of APL Limited’s international cargo contributes to our ability to obtain favorable provisions in our rail contracts. APL Limited pays us a fee for repositioning its empty containers within North America so that the containers can be reused in trans-Pacific shipping operations. APL Limited’s affiliate is an important customer for our north-south automotive line of business. If our contract with APL Limited were terminated or if APL Limited were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of its contract, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to identify, make and successfully integrate acquisitions, our profitability could be adversely affected. We may consider acquiring businesses in the future. Identifying, acquiring and integrating businesses require substantial management, financial and other resources. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows, including unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations and technologies; the need to manage a significantly larger and more geographically dispersed business; diversion of management’s attention from ongoing development of our business or other business concerns; potential loss of customers; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; and the use of substantial amounts of our available cash and availability under our 2010 Credit Agreement. 27 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire them on reasonable terms or at all, and a failure to do so could limit our ability to expand our business. Our acquisition activities involve more difficult integration issues than those of many other companies because the value of the companies we acquire comes mostly from their business relationships, rather than their tangible assets. The integration of business relationships poses more of a risk than the integration of tangible assets because relationships may suddenly weaken or terminate, or key personnel responsible for those relationships may depart. If we are unable to successfully integrate any business that we may acquire in the future, we could experience difficulties with customers, personnel or others, and our acquisitions might not enhance our competitive position, business or financial prospects. In addition, if we make future acquisitions, we may issue shares of capital stock that dilute other stockholders, incur debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses related to intangible assets, any of which might reduce our reported earnings or reduce earnings per share and cause our stock price to decline. Any financing that we might need for future acquisitions may be available to us only on terms that restrict our business. As we expand our services internationally, we may become subject to international economic and political risks. International revenues account for approximately 10% to 20% of our revenues on an annual basis. We intend to increase our international operations in connection with our objectives of becoming a world class provider of integrated global door-to-door transportation and logistics solutions. Doing business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including · changes in a specific country's or region's economic, social and political conditions or governmental policies; · natural disasters, epidemics, wars, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, armed conflicts and other disturbances; · strikes, work stoppages and other labor disruptions; · changes in international and domestic customs or transportation regulations; · trade laws, tariffs, export quotas and other trade restrictions; · difficulties in staffing, managing or overseeing diverse foreign operations over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; · pricing restrictions and regulations imposed by foreign governments; · expropriation of our international assets or adverse changes in tax laws and regulations; · limitations on foreign investments; · limitations on the repatriation of earnings or assets, including cash; · different liability standards and less developed legal systems that may be less predictable than those in the United States; and · intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 28 Table of Contents The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Furthermore, significant expansion of our services in foreign countries will expose us to the increased effect of foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these changes. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Volatility in our revenues and expenses and resultant operational results may result in stock price declines. As discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are subject to a variety of events, such as economic conditions, customers’ business cycles, rate changes, rail network changes, severe weather and other rail service disruptions, strikes, interest rate and fuel cost fluctuations, and claims, over which we have little or no control. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and revenue forecasts. A portion of our operating expenses, such as equipment and other leases and employee wages and salaries, do not vary directly with sales and are harder to adjust immediately. As a result, if revenues for a quarter, whether due to competitive pressures, mix changes, volume declines due to economic conditions or other reasons, are below our expectations, we might not be able to reduce operating expenses to match for that quarter and, therefore, our margins would be compressed and our financial results would suffer. We also may be subject to rate increases from our underlying transportation providers that we may be unable to pass through to customers immediately or at all, which will likewise compress margins and adversely affect our financial results. These factors may unexpectedly affect one or more quarters’ results. Any unexpected reduction in revenues or operating income for a particular quarter could cause our quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or stockholders. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall significantly. Because we have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable could be prevented. Provisions of our charter and bylaws or Tennessee law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: · Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to thwart a takeover attempt; · A classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the Board of Directors; · Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · Requiring super-majority voting to effect particular amendments to our restated charter and amended bylaws; · Limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; · Requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders unless the stockholders unanimously agree to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and 29 Table of Contents · Prohibiting business combinations with interested stockholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the Tennessee Greenmail Act and the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 