ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We make forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports we file with the SEC. In addition, members of our senior management make forward-looking statements orally in presentations to analysts, investors, the media and others. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our objectives and expectations with respect to our financial plan, sales and earnings, merchandising and marketing strategies, store opening, renovation, remodeling and expansion, inventory management and performance, liquidity and cash flows, capital structure, capital expenditures, development of our information technology and telecommunications plans and related management information systems, e-commerce initiatives, human resource initiatives, impact of the Bailey Banks & Biddle store closings and other statements regarding our plans and objectives. In addition, the words “plans to,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “intend,” “expect,” “believe,” “forecast,” “can,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “may,” or similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but some of these statements may use other phrasing. These forward-looking statements are intended to relay our expectations about the future, and speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise publicly or otherwise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the anticipated or expected results expressed in or suggested by these forward-looking statements. - 11 - Table of Contents If the general economy performs poorly, discretionary spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be “luxuries” may not grow and may even decrease. Jewelry purchases are discretionary and may be affected by adverse trends in the general economy (and consumer perceptions of those trends). In addition, a number of other factors affecting consumers such as employment, wages and salaries, business conditions, energy costs, credit availability and taxation policies, for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where we operate, can impact sales and earnings. The concentration of a substantial portion of our sales in three relatively brief selling periods means that our performance is more susceptible to disruptions. A substantial portion of our sales are derived from three selling periods — Holiday (Christmas), Valentine’s Day, and Mother’s Day. Because of the briefness of these three selling periods, the opportunity for sales to recover in the event of a disruption or other difficulty is limited, and the impact of disruptions and difficulties can be significant. For instance, adverse weather (such as a blizzard or hurricane), a significant interruption in the receipt of products (whether because of vendor or other product problems), or a sharp decline in mall traffic occurring during one of these selling periods could materially impact sales for the affected period and, because of the importance of each of these selling periods, commensurately impact overall sales and earnings. Most of our sales are of products that include diamonds, precious metals and other commodities, and fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities could impact our ability to obtain and produce products at favorable prices. The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world market are significantly influenced by a single entity, which has traditionally controlled the marketing of a substantial majority of the world’s supply of diamonds and sells rough diamonds to worldwide diamond cutters at prices determined in its sole discretion. The availability of diamonds also is somewhat dependent on the political conditions in diamond-producing countries and on the continuing supply of raw diamonds. Any sustained interruption in this supply could have an adverse affect on our business. In the near term, efforts by non-governmental organizations to encourage legislative response combined with a movie about conflict diamonds scheduled for national release in December 2006 could increase consumer awareness of the issue and could affect consumer demand for diamonds. We are also affected by fluctuations in the price of diamonds, gold and other commodities. We historically have engaged in hedging against fluctuations in the cost of gold. A significant change in prices of key commodities could adversely affect our business by reducing operating margins or decreasing consumer demand if retail prices are increased significantly. Our sales are dependent upon mall traffic. Our stores, kiosks, and carts are located primarily in shopping malls throughout the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Our success is in part dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of malls, their tenants and other mall attractions to generate customer traffic. Accordingly, a significant decline in this popularity, especially if it is sustained, would substantially harm our sales and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry. The retail jewelry business is highly competitive and fragmented, and we compete with nationally recognized jewelry chains as well as a large number of independent regional and local jewelry retailers and other types of retailers who sell jewelry and gift items, such as department stores, mass merchandisers and catalog showrooms. We also are beginning to compete with Internet sellers of jewelry. Because of the breadth and depth of this competition, we are constantly under competitive pressure that both constrains pricing and requires extensive merchandising efforts in order for us to remain competitive. - 12 - Table of Contents Any failure by us to manage our inventory effectively will negatively impact sales and earnings. We purchase much of our inventory well in advance of each selling period. In the event we misjudge consumer preferences or demand, we will experience lower sales than expected and will have excessive inventory that may need to be written down in value or sold at prices that are less than expected. Because of our dependence upon a small concentrated number of landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of our relationships with those landlords would negatively impact our ability to obtain and retain store locations. We are significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs that allow us to earn a reasonable return on our locations. We depend on the leasing market and our landlords to determine supply, demand, lease cost and operating costs and conditions. We cannot be certain as to when or whether desirable store locations will become or remain available to us at reasonable lease and operating costs. Further, several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, and we are dependent upon maintaining good relations with those landlords in order to obtain and retain store locations on optimal terms. From time to time, we do have disagreements with our landlords and a significant disagreement, if not resolved, could have an adverse impact on our business. Changes in regulatory requirements relating to the extension of credit may increase the cost of or adversely affect our operations. Our operations are affected by numerous U.S. and Canadian federal and state or provincial laws that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing and enforcement of credit accounts and limitations on the maximum aggregate amount of finance charges that may be charged by a credit provider. Any change in the regulation of credit (including changes in the application of current laws) which would materially limit the availability of credit to our customer base could adversely affect our sales and earnings. Any disruption in, or changes to, our private label credit card arrangement with Citi may adversely affect our ability to provide consumer credit and write credit insurance. Our agreement with Citi, through which Citi provides financing for our customers to purchase merchandise through private label credit cards, enhances our ability to provide consumer credit and write credit insurance. Any disruption in, or change to, this agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, especially to the extent that it materially limits credit availability to our customer base. Acquisitions involve special risk, including the possibility that we may be unable to integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations. We have made significant acquisitions in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions. Difficulty integrating an acquisition into our existing infrastructure and operations may cause us to fail to realize expected return on investment through revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and customer reach, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. Additionally, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available at the time or pursuant to terms acceptable to us. We recently appointed a new CEO, who may initiate strategies or other changes in store levels, expenses, staffing, and related matters. Mary E. Burton was named Acting Chief Executive Officer in January 2006 and President and Chief Executive Officer in July 2006. As discussed under “Business Initiatives and Strategy,” we have a number of strategy initiatives and expect Ms. Burton to initiate others. Each of these initiatives will require the commitment of capital and human resources. These initiatives may or may not generate the expected results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. - 13 - Table of Contents 