Item 1A. Risk Factors In examining an investment in our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including those described below. We urge you to carefully consider these risk factors together with all of the other information included in this filing and other risks and uncertainties identified in our filings made with the Commission, press releases and public statements made by our authorized officers before you decide to purchase or make an investment decision regarding our common stock. We may not be successful in identifying any suitable acquisition opportunities and future acquisitions may involve various risks. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or consummating any suitable acquisitions and, if we do complete an acquisition, there is no assurance that it will be successful in enhancing our business or our financial condition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to 4 Table of Contents complete suitable transactions or increase the cost we must pay. Acquisitions could divert a substantial amount of our management time and may be difficult for us to integrate. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with one or more acquisitions which may dilute the interest of our existing stockholders. Depending upon the size and number of any acquisitions, we may also borrow money to fund acquisitions or to fund operations of our business. In that event, we would be subject to the risks normally associated with indebtedness, including the inability to service the debt or the dedication of a significant amount of cash flow to service the debt, limits on our ability to secure future financing and the imposition of various covenants, including restrictions on our operations. Volatility in global credit markets may impact our ability to obtain financing to fund acquisitions. Our ability to consummate an acquisition may be largely dependent on our ability to obtain debt or equity financing. The current global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may impact our ability to raise equity capital or to obtain sufficient credit to finance an acquisition until the conditions become more favorable. Our Principal Stockholders hold a majority of our outstanding common stock and have interests which may conflict with interests of other stockholders. As a result of this ownership, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Our Principal Stockholders beneficially own shares of outstanding common stock that collectively constitute more than 50% of our total voting power and, because of this, exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs and have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors, the removal of directors, and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our company that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Moreover, a majority of the members of our board of directors were nominated by and are affiliated with or employed by our Principal Stockholders or their affiliates. Our Principal Stockholders could cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of these entities conflict with or are not aligned with the interests or plans of our other stockholders. Because of our ownership structure, described above, we are deemed a “controlled company” under the rules of the NYSE. As a result, we qualify for, and rely upon, the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the rules of the NYSE. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from rules that would otherwise require that our board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors” (as defined under the rules of the NYSE), and that any compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee be comprised solely of “independent directors,” so long as our Principal Stockholders continue to own more than 50% of our combined voting power. Future acquisitions and dispositions may not require a stockholder vote and may be material to us. Any acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and since we have not yet identified any additional assets, property or business that we may acquire or develop, potential investors will have virtually no substantive information about any such new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in our common stock. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any acquisitions, stockholders may not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, and may not have access to any information about any new business until the transaction is completed and we file a report with the Commission disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows us to enter into a merger, asset sale, acquisition or lease transaction with an entity controlled by our Principal Stockholders without the requirement of a super-majority vote. 5 Table of Contents The market liquidity for our common stock is relatively low and may make it difficult to purchase or sell our stock. The average daily trading volume in our stock during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2009 was approximately 14,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock could affect a stockholder’s ability to sell at a price satisfactory to that stockholder. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed an investment company and we may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. Since the December 2006 sale of our Omega shares, we have held substantially all of our assets in cash, cash equivalents and investments in U.S. Government Agency and Treasury securities, and have held no “investment securities.” In addition, we have not held, and do not hold, ourself out as an investment company. We have been conducting a good faith search for a merger or acquisition candidate, and have repeatedly and publicly disclosed our intention to acquire a business. However, as of the date of this report, due to a variety of factors, we have been unable to consummate such a transaction. We believe that we are not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If the Commission or a court were to disagree with us, we could be required to register as an investment company. This would negatively affect our ability to consummate an acquisition of an operating company, subjecting us to disclosure and accounting guidance geared toward investment, rather than operating, companies; limiting our ability to borrow money, issue options, issue multiple classes of stock and debt, and engage in transactions with affiliates; and requiring us to undertake significant costs and expenses to meet the disclosure and regulatory requirements to which we would be subject as a registered investment company. We may be subject to an additional tax as a personal holding company on future undistributed personal holding company income if we generate passive income in excess of operating expenses. Section 541 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), subjects a corporation which is a “personal holding company,” as defined in the IRC, to a 15% tax on “undistributed personal holding company income” in addition to the corporation’s normal income tax. Generally, undistributed personal holding company income is based on taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, most notably a reduction for Federal income taxes. Personal holding company income is comprised primarily of passive investment income plus, under certain circumstances, personal service income. A corporation generally is considered to be a personal holding company (“PHC”) if (1) 60% or more of its adjusted ordinary gross income is personal holding company income and (2) more than 50% in value of its outstanding common stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as calculated under the applicable tax rule at any time during the last half of the taxable year. Although we believe that we are classified as a PHC for 2009, we did not incur a PHC tax as we had a net operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally, subsequent to the 2009 Change of Control, we may continue to qualify as a PHC in future periods. If it is determined that five or fewer individuals hold more than 50% in value of our outstanding common stock during the second half of future tax years, it is possible that we could have at least 60% of adjusted ordinary gross income consist of PHC income as discussed above. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to this tax in the future, which, in turn, may materially and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we are subject to this tax during future periods, statutory tax rate increases could significantly increase tax expense and adversely affect operating results and cash flows. Specifically, the current 15% tax rate on undistributed PHC income is scheduled to expire as of December 31, 2010, after which the rate will revert back to the highest individual ordinary income rate of 39.6%. Agreements and transactions involving former subsidiaries may give rise to future claims that could materially adversely impact our capital resources. Throughout our history, we have entered into numerous transactions relating to the sale, disposal or spin-off of partially and wholly owned subsidiaries. We may have continuing obligations pursuant to certain of these transactions, including obligations to indemnify other parties to agreements, and may be subject to risks resulting from these transactions. For example, in 2005, we were notified by Weatherford International Inc. of a claim for reimbursement in connection with the investigation and cleanup of purported environmental contamination at two 6 Table of Contents properties formerly owned by one of our non-operating subsidiaries. The claim was made under an indemnification provision given by us to Weatherford in a 1995 asset purchase agreement. There can be no assurance that we will not incur costs and expenses in excess of our reserves in connection with any continuing obligation. Litigation defense and settlement costs may be material. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any pending litigation in which we are involved, or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any potential losses. To the extent that we sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not presently reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to businesses that we may acquire in the future. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Commission, or other regulatory authorities, which could also result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our previously filed Form 10-Q/A for the period ended September 30, 2009 stated that we did not maintain effective controls over the application and monitoring of our accounting for income taxes. Specifically, we did not have controls designed and in place to ensure the accuracy and completeness of financial information provided by third party tax advisors used in accounting for income taxes and the determination of deferred income tax assets and the related income tax provision and the review and evaluation of the application of generally accepted accounting principles relating to accounting for income taxes. This control deficiency resulted in the restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. Accordingly, we determined that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness as of September 30, 2009. As of the end of the period covered by this report, we have concluded that our ongoing remediation efforts resulted in control enhancements which have operated for an adequate period of time to demonstrate operating effectiveness. Although we believe that this material weakness has been remediated, there can be no assurance that similar weaknesses will not occur in the future which could adversely affect our future results of operations or our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 