Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or our other filings with the SEC. These risks and uncertainties are also factors that an investor should consider before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurred, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We depend on payments from third-party payors, including government health care programs and managed care organizations. If these payments are reduced or eliminated, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon private and governmental third-party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our surgery centers and other facilities and the physician networks we manage. The amount that our centers, facilities and networks receive in payment for their services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including Medicare, Medicaid and state regulations and the cost containment and utilization decisions and reduced reimbursement schedules of third-party payors. For the year ended December 31, 2005, payments from government payors represented about 19% of our patient service revenues from surgery centers that we consolidate for financial reporting purposes. Medicare’s system of paying for covered procedures performed in a surgery center or its rates for surgery center procedures may change in the near future. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, commonly referred to as the Medicare Modernization Act, limits increases in Medicare reimbursement rates for ambulatory surgery centers. Under the Medicare Modernization Act, the 2% increase in Medicare reimbursement rates for ambulatory surgery centers that became effective October 1, 2003 is limited to an amount equal to the increase in the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers as estimated by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services for the 12-month period ended March 31, 2003, minus 3.0 percentage points. The Medicare Modernization Act also provides that there will be no increase in these rates during the years 2005 through 2009. The Medicare Modernization Act also directs the General Accounting Office to conduct a study comparing the cost of procedures in surgery centers to the cost of procedures performed in hospital outpatient departments. The General Accounting Office was directed to submit the results of its study to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, by no later than January 1, 2005. However, no report had been publicly released as of March 1, 2006. CMS is directed to develop a new ambulatory surgery center payment system based upon the Medicare hospital outpatient department payment system so that it is effective on or after January 1, 2006 and no later than January 1, 2008. The Medicare Modernization Act provides that, in the year that the new payment system is implemented, it must be designed to result in the same aggregate amount of expenditures for surgical services provided at ambulatory surgery centers as would be made if the new system were not adopted. The rate changes mandated by the Medicare Modernization Act could have an adverse effect on the revenues of our centers, but we cannot predict at this time the full effect of the payment rate revisions. Previously, the Department of Health and Human Services proposed a rule which would increase the number of surgical procedure payment groups from eight to 105 and the number of surgical procedures covered by the Medicare program to about 2,500. All of the procedures paid at a particular rate would constitute a payment group. Each of the procedures would be paid at one of the 105 prospectively determined payment rates. To date, CMS has not implemented the proposed surgery center methodology, and in light of the payment study mandated by the Medicare Modernization Act, it is uncertain whether this proposed surgery center payment methodology will be implemented. If implemented in its proposed form, the change in payment methodology could reduce our Medicare revenues, depending on the volume and type of procedures performed at a particular facility. States in which we perform Medicaid procedures could also change their payment methodology in the future, and these changes may reduce the payments we receive for our services from state Medicaid programs. In addition, the Medicare Payment 26 Table of Contents Advisory Commission, or MedPAC, and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, have both recently recommended changes to the Medicare payment methodology for surgery centers. MedPAC is a congressional advisory board charged with advising Congress on Medicare payment issues, while the OIG is a governmental agency responsible for investigating and monitoring Medicare, Medicaid and other Department of Health and Human Services programs. Generally, MedPAC and the OIG have recommended that reimbursement levels for surgery center procedures be reduced. These proposed changes do not apply to our facilities licensed as hospitals. On February 1, 2006, Congress passed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. Section 5103 of the Deficit Reduction Act contains a provision that models surgery center reimbursement on the methodology and payment rates applicable to surgical services furnished in hospital outpatient departments. Specifically, for procedures furnished on or after January 1, 2007, but before the implementation of a revised payment system for ambulatory surgery centers, a surgery center cannot recoup more than the hospital outpatient department rate for a specific procedure, even if the standard overhead amount of the procedure exceeds the hospital outpatient department rate. This change does not apply to our facilities licensed as hospitals. Our revenue and profitability could be affected by this change. We are unable to predict the full effect of this change in the law. Furthermore, recent legislation, entitled “The Ambulatory Surgical Center Payment Modernization Act”, was introduced in 2005. This legislation would also model surgery center reimbursement on the methodology and payment rates applicable to surgical services furnished in hospital outpatient departments. This legislation, which has not yet been passed into law, adopts the recommendation of MedPAC that the ambulatory surgery center procedures list be modified and that ambulatory surgical centers be permitted to perform and receive Medicare facility payment for any surgical service, except for those services: (1) that the Department of Health and Human Services Secretary designates, after consultation with specified organizations, as posing a significant risk to beneficiary safety when furnished in an ambulatory surgery center; or (2) that require an overnight stay. This legislation would require that, by January 1, 2008, CMS reimburse surgery centers on the basis of a uniform percentage of the rates paid to hospital outpatient departments for the same service. If this legislation is enacted, our revenue and profitability could be affected. We are unable to predict the full effect of this legislation on our financial position and results of operations. These recommended changes do not apply to our facilities licensed as hospitals. We cannot predict what further legislation may be enacted or what regulations or guidelines may be established concerning third party reimbursement by state, federal or private programs. Reductions or changes in these programs could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. If future government regulatory interpretations prohibit our centers from providing 23 hour stay services, our revenues could decrease. Medicare regulations prohibit ambulatory surgery centers from performing surgical procedures on Medicare patients if it is anticipated that the patient will require overnight recovery. Historically, however, CMS has permitted ambulatory surgery centers to keep non-Medicare patients for up to 23 hours. On March 11, 2004, CMS issued a Memorandum to State Survey Agency Directors stating that an ambulatory surgery center that routinely provides 23 hour recovery services to non-Medicare patients will jeopardize the facility’s Medicare certification. CMS is expected to clarify or revise this new interpretation of the Medicare ambulatory surgery center regulations. If CMS does not modify this interpretation, our centers would be unable to routinely offer services to patients requiring extended recovery time, and it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. If we are unable to negotiate contracts or maintain satisfactory relationships with private third-party payors, our revenues and operating income will decrease. Payments from private third-party payors represented about 76% of our patient service revenues in 2005. Most of these payments came from third-party payors with which our centers have contracts. Managed care companies such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, which offer prepaid and discounted medical service packages, represent a growing segment of private third-party payors. If we fail to enter into favorable contracts and maintain satisfactory relationships with managed care organizations, our revenues may decrease. Cost containment measures, such as fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, 27 Table of Contents reductions in reimbursement schedules by third-party payors and closed provider networks, could also cause a reduction of our revenues in the future and cause our profit margins to decline. Some of our payments from third-party payors in the past year came from third-party payors with which our centers did not have a written contract. In those cases, commonly known as “out-of-network” services, we generally charge the patients the same co-payment or other patient responsibility amounts that we would have charged had our center had a contract with the payor. We also submit a claim for the services to the payor along with full disclosure that our center has charged the patient an in-network patient responsibility amount. Historically, those third-party payors who do not have contracts with our centers have typically paid our claims at higher than comparable contracted rates. However, there is a growing trend for third-party payors to adopt out-of-network fee schedules, which are more comparable to our contracted rates, or to take other steps to discourage their enrollees from seeking treatment at out-of-network surgery centers. If this trend continues, and if we are not able to successfully negotiate favorable contracts with these payors, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Payments from workers’ compensation payors represented approximately 13% of our patient service revenues in 2005. Traditionally, workers’ compensation payors have paid surgery centers a percentage of the surgery centers’ charges. Several states have recently implemented workers’ compensation provider fee schedules, and other states have considered or have begun the process of developing a state workers’ compensation fee schedule for providers. In some cases, the fee schedule rates contain lower rates than our surgery centers have historically been paid for the same services. If the trend of states adopting lower workers’ compensation fee schedules continues, it could have a material adverse effect on our centers’ financial position and results of operations. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire and develop additional surgery centers on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, our future growth could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our strategy is to increase our revenues and earnings by continuing to focus on existing facilities and continuing to acquire and develop additional surgery centers. Since January 1999, we have acquired or developed 57 surgery centers, including five centers that we no longer own. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition and development opportunities and to negotiate and complete acquisitions and new projects on favorable terms. In addition, our acquisition and development program requires substantial capital resources, and we may need to obtain additional capital or financing, from time to time, to fund these activities. As a result, we may take actions that could have a detrimental effect on our results of operations or the price of our common stock, including incurring substantial debt or issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities that would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership percentage. Sufficient capital or financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring and developing additional surgery centers, and may have difficulty operating and integrating those surgery centers. If we acquire or develop additional surgery centers, we may be unable to successfully operate the centers and we may experience difficulty in integrating their operations and personnel. For example, in some acquisitions, we have experienced delays in implementing standard operating procedures and systems and improving existing managed care agreements and the mix of specialties offered at the centers. Following the acquisition of a surgery center, key physicians may cease to use the facility or we may be unable to retain key management personnel. In some acquisitions, we may have to renegotiate, or risk losing, one or more of the surgery center’s managed care contracts if the contracts are between the third-party payor and the seller of the center rather than the center itself. In addition, if we acquire the assets of a center rather than ownership interests in the entity that owns the center, we may be unable to assume the center’s existing managed care contracts. We may also be unable to collect the accounts receivable of an acquired center. We may also experience negative effects on our reported results of operations because of acquisition-related charges and potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles. In addition, we may acquire surgery centers with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations. Although we maintain professional and general liability insurance, we do not currently maintain insurance specifically covering any unknown or contingent liabilities that 28 Table of Contents may have occurred prior to the acquisition of companies and surgery centers. In some cases, our right to indemnification for these liabilities may be subject to negotiated limits. In developing new surgery centers, we may be unable to attract physicians to use our facilities or contract with third-party payors. In addition, our newly-developed surgery centers typically incur net losses during the initial periods of operation and, unless and until their case loads grow, they generally experience lower total revenues and operating margins than established surgery centers. Integrating a new surgery center could be expensive and time consuming, and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and other key personnel. If we are unable to timely and efficiently integrate an acquired or newly-developed center, our business could suffer. Efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of health care facilities could prevent us from acquiring additional surgery centers or other facilities, renovating our existing facilities or expanding the breadth of services we offer. Some states require prior approval for the construction, acquisition or expansion of health care facilities or expansion of the services the facilities offer. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. In 11 states in which we currently operate, certificates of need must be obtained for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in capacity or services offered and various other matters. Other states in which we now or may in the future operate may adopt similar legislation. Our costs of obtaining a certificate of need could be significant and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the certificates of need or other required approvals for additional or expanded facilities or services in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a facility, we may agree to replace or expand the acquired facility. If we are unable to obtain required approvals, we may not be able to acquire additional surgery centers or other facilities, expand health care services we provide at these facilities or replace or expand acquired facilities. If we fail to maintain good relationships with the physicians who use our facilities, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide medical services at our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. These physicians are not employees of our facilities and are not contractually required to use our facilities. We generally do not enter into contracts with physicians who use our facilities, other than partnership and operating agreements with physicians who own interests in our surgery centers, provider agreements with anesthesiology groups that provide anesthesiology services in our surgery centers, medical director agreements and pain clinic agreements. Physicians who use our facilities also use other facilities or hospitals and may choose to perform procedures in an office-based setting that might otherwise be performed at our surgery centers. In recent years, pain management and gastrointestinal procedures have been performed increasingly in an office-based setting. Although physicians who own an interest in our centers are subject to agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities, these agreements may not restrict procedures performed in a physician office. Also, these agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities are difficult to enforce, and we may be unsuccessful in preventing physicians who own an interest in our centers from acquiring an interest in a competing facility. In addition, the physicians who use our facilities may choose not to accept patients who pay for services through certain third-party payors, which could reduce our revenues. In nine of the surgery centers in which we own an interest, a single physician performed over 25% of the total number of cases performed at the center during 2005. From time to time, we may have disputes with physicians who use our facilities and/or own interests in our centers or our company. Our revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced if we lost our relationship with one or more key physicians or groups of physicians or if a key physician or group ceased or reduced his or its use of our facilities. In addition, any damage to the reputation of a key physician or group of physicians or the failure of these physicians to provide quality medical care or adhere to professional guidelines at our facilities could damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenues. We also manage three physician networks that accounted for about 2% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005. The termination of any of our contracts to manage our physician networks would have an immaterial effect on our financial position and results of operations. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Louisville IPA informed us that it was dissolving its association. We believe the decreased revenue as a result of the dissolution of the Louisville IPA will be immaterial 29 Table of Contents to our financial position and results of operations. Income before the provision for income taxes provided by the Louisville IPA was less than 1.1% for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. We have a limited history operating many of our centers. Since January 1999, we have acquired 41 surgery centers and developed 16 surgery centers, including five surgery centers that we subsequently divested. Several of these centers have been acquired or developed in the past few years and we have limited experience in operating the facilities. As a result, we have a limited history of operations upon which you can evaluate us or our prospects. Forecasts of our future revenues, expenses and operating results may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer history of operations. If we fail to comply with legislative and regulatory rules relating to privacy and security of patient health information and standards for electronic transactions, we may experience delays in payment of claims and increased costs and be subject to substantial fines. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, mandates the adoption of security and integrity standards related to patient information. HIPAA also standardizes the method for identifying providers, employers, health plans and patients. Final rules implementing the security and integrity portion of HIPAA were adopted February 20, 2003 with a mandatory implementation date of April 20, 2005. We believe that we are in compliance with the HIPAA regulations. However, if we fail to comply with the requirements of HIPAA, we could be subject to civil penalties of up to $25,000 per calendar year for each provision contained in the privacy, security and transaction regulations that is violated and criminal penalties of up to $250,000 per violation for certain other violations. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the operation of our facilities, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in which we operate. These laws and regulations require that our facilities meet various licensing, certification and other requirements, including those relating to: • qualification of medical and support persons; • pricing of services by health care providers; • the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; • maintenance and protection of records; and • environmental protection, health and safety. If we fail or have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including becoming the subject of cease and desist orders, the loss of our licenses to operate and disqualification from Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored health care programs. In pursuing our growth strategy, we may seek to expand our presence into new geographic markets. In new geographic markets, we may encounter laws and regulations that differ from those applicable to our current operations. If we are unable to comply with these legal requirements in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to expand geographically. 30 Table of Contents Our facilities do not satisfy all of the requirements for any of the safe harbors under the federal anti-kickback statute. If we fail to comply with the federal anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which may result in a substantial loss of revenues. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the federal anti-kickback statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federally funded health care program. The federal anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 and civil penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the remuneration involved or the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The exclusion, if applied to our facilities, could result in significant reductions in our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have also adopted laws, similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licenses. No state or federal regulatory actions have been taken against our facilities under anti-kickback or self-referral statutes during the time we have owned or managed the facilities. Management is not aware of any such actions prior to our acquisition or management of these facilities. In July 1991, the Department of Health and Human Services issued final regulations defining various “safe harbors.” Business arrangements that meet the requirements of the safe harbors are deemed to be in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Business arrangements that do not meet the safe harbor requirements do not necessarily violate the federal anti-kickback statute, but may be subject to scrutiny by the federal government to determine compliance. Two of the safe harbors issued in 1991 apply to business arrangements similar to those used in connection with our surgery centers: the “investment interest” safe harbor and the “personal services and management contracts” safe harbor. However, the structure of the partnerships and limited liability companies operating our facilities, as well as our business arrangements involving physician networks, do not satisfy all of the requirements of either safe harbor. In November 1999, the Department of Health and Human Services issued final regulations creating additional safe harbor provisions, including a safe harbor that applies to physician ownership of, or investment interests in, surgery centers. These regulations do not apply to our facilities licensed as hospitals. The surgery center safe harbor protects four types of investment arrangements. Each category has its own requirements with regard to what type of physician may be an investor in the surgery center. In addition to the physician investor, the categories permit an “unrelated” investor, who is a person or entity that is not in a position to provide items or services related to the surgery center or its investors. Our business arrangements with our surgery centers typically consist of one or more of our subsidiaries being an investor in each partnership or limited liability company that owns the surgery center, in addition to providing management and other services to the surgery center. As a result of these and other aspects of our business arrangements, including those relating to the composition of physician groups that own an interest in our facilities, these arrangements do not comply with all the requirements of the surgery center safe harbor and, therefore, are not immune from government review or prosecution. 31 Table of Contents If a federal or state agency asserts a different position or enacts new laws or regulations regarding illegal remuneration under the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, experience a significant reduction in our revenues or be excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. Any change in interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, pricing, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for or profitability of our services. Additionally, new federal or state laws may be enacted that would cause our relationships with physician investors to become illegal or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our facilities. If any of our business arrangements with physician investors were deemed to violate the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur a significant loss of reimbursement revenues. The federal physician self-referral law, commonly referred to as the Stark law, prohibits a physician from making a Medicare or Medicaid reimbursed referral for a “designated health service” to an entity if the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has a “financial relationship” with the entity. “Designated health services” include a number of services, including clinical laboratory services, radiology and certain other imaging services and inpatient and outpatient hospital services. Under the current Stark law and related regulations, services provided at a surgery center are not covered by Stark, even if those services include imaging, laboratory services or other Stark designated health services, provided that the surgery center does not bill for these services separately. However, services provided at our facilities licensed as hospitals are covered by the Stark law. The Stark law and similar state statutes are subject to different interpretations with respect to many important provisions. Violations of these self-referral laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Exclusion of our surgery centers from these programs through future judicial or agency interpretation of existing laws or additional legislative restrictions on physician ownership or investments in health care entities could result in a significant loss of reimbursement revenues. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, as well as new pending legislation, could restrict our ability to operate new hospitals and could adversely impact our reimbursement revenues. On February 1, 2006, Congress passed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. Section 5006 of the Deficit Reduction Act contains significant restrictions on specialty hospitals, including a provision preventing new specialty hospitals from enrolling in Medicare for the next six and possibly eight months. The Deficit Reduction Act also raises the specter of further Congressional and regulatory restrictions. The Deficit Reduction Act specialty hospital provisions require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a strategic plan to address physician-owned specialty hospital issues such as proportionality of investment return, methods for determining bona fide investments, disclosure of investment interests and the provision of Medicaid and charity care by specialty hospitals. The Secretary is directed to issue a report to Congress no later than six months (or eight months, if the Secretary applies for a two-month extension) after the date of the enactment of the Deficit Reduction Act. The Secretary’s report will include recommendations for such specialty hospital legislative and administrative actions that the Secretary considers appropriate to address the issues identified in the Deficit Reduction Act. It is not certain what types of regulatory revisions CMS will make to address the perceived issues with specialty hospitals, or what recommendations it will make to Congress for future legislative action. If future legislation were to be enacted that prohibits all physician referrals to specialty hospitals in which the physicians own an interest, even if those facilities already exist, the financial position and results of operations of our specialty hospitals could be materially adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Section 5103 of the Deficit Reduction Act contains a provision that models surgery center reimbursement on the methodology and payment rates applicable to surgical services furnished in hospital outpatient departments. Specifically, for procedures furnished on or after January 1, 2007, but before the implementation of a revised payment system for ambulatory surgery centers, a surgery center cannot recoup more than the hospital outpatient department rate for a specific procedure, even if the standard overhead amount of the procedure exceeds the hospital outpatient department rate. This change does not apply to our facilities licensed as hospitals. Our revenue and profitability could be affected by this change. We are unable to predict the full effect of this change in the law. Furthermore, the Ambulatory Surgical Center Payment Modernization Act was introduced in 2005. This legislation would also model surgery center reimbursement on the methodology and payment rates applicable to surgical services furnished in hospital outpatient departments. This legislation, which has not yet been passed into law, adopts the recommendation of MedPAC that the ambulatory surgery center procedures list be modified and that ambulatory surgical centers be permitted to perform and receive Medicare facility payment for any surgical service, except for those services: (1) that the Department of Health and Human Services Secretary designates as posing a significant risk to beneficiary safety when furnished in an ambulatory surgery center; or (2) that require an overnight stay. This legislation would require that by January 1, 2008, CMS reimburse surgery centers on the basis of a uniform percentage of the rates paid to hospital outpatient departments for the same service. If this legislation is enacted, our revenue and profitability could be affected. We are unable to predict the full effect of this legislation on our revenues. These recommended changes do not apply to our facilities licensed as hospitals. We cannot predict what further legislation may be enacted or what regulations or guidelines may be established concerning third party reimbursement by state, federal or private programs. Reductions or changes in these programs could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. We may be subject to actions for false and other improper claims. Federal and state government agencies, as well as private payors, have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of the cost reporting and billing practices of health care organizations and their quality of care and financial relationships with referral sources. In addition, the OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. The U.S. government is authorized to impose criminal, civil and administrative penalties on any person or entity that files a false claim for payment from the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Claims filed with private insurers can also lead to criminal and civil penalties, including, but not limited to, penalties relating to violations of federal mail and wire fraud statutes. While the criminal statutes are generally reserved for instances of fraudulent intent, the U.S. government is applying its criminal, civil and administrative penalty statutes in an ever-expanding range of circumstances. For example, the government has taken the position that a pattern of claiming reimbursement for unnecessary services violates these statutes if the claimant merely should have known the services were unnecessary, even if the government cannot demonstrate actual knowledge. The government has also taken the position that claiming payment for low-quality services is a violation of these statutes if the claimant should have known that the care was substandard. In addition, some courts have held that a violation of the Stark law can result in liability under the federal False Claims Act. Over the past several years, the U.S. government has accused an increasing number of health care providers of violating the federal False Claims Act. The False Claims Act prohibits a person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. government. The statute defines “knowingly” to include not only actual knowledge of a claim’s falsity, but also reckless disregard for or intentional ignorance of the truth or falsity of a claim. Because our facilities perform hundreds of similar procedures a year for which they are paid by Medicare, and there is a relatively long statute of limitations, a billing error or cost reporting error could result in significant civil or criminal penalties. Under the qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the False Claims Act, private parties may bring actions on behalf of the U.S. government. These private parties, often referred to as relators, are entitled to share in any 33 Table of Contents amounts recovered by the government through trial or settlement. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and whistleblower lawsuits have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a health care company, like us, will have to defend a false claims action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid programs as a result of an investigation resulting from a whistleblower case. Although we believe that our operations comply with both federal and state laws, they may nevertheless be the subject of a whistleblower lawsuit, or may otherwise be challenged or scrutinized by governmental authorities. A determination that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to various state insurance statutes and regulations that prohibit us from submitting inaccurate, incorrect or misleading claims. We believe that our surgery centers are in material compliance with all state insurance laws and regulations regarding the submission of claims. We cannot assure you, however, that none of our centers’ insurance claims will ever be challenged. If we were found to be in violation of a state’s insurance laws or regulations, we could be forced to discontinue the practice in violation, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, and we could be subject to fines and criminal penalties. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships, which may result in a significant loss of revenues and divert other resources. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not permit business corporations to practice medicine, to exercise control over or employ physicians who practice medicine or to engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We provide management services to three physician networks. If our arrangements with these networks were deemed to violate state corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting or similar laws, or if new laws are enacted rendering our arrangements illegal, we may be required to restructure these arrangements, which may result in a significant loss of revenues and divert other resources. We are liable for debts and other obligations of the partnerships and limited liability companies that own and operate some of our surgery centers. We own and operate our surgery centers through 26 limited partnerships, 25 limited liability companies and one general partnership. Local physicians, physician groups and hospitals also own an interest in all but one of these partnerships and limited liability companies. In the partnerships in which we are the general partner, we are liable for 100% of the debts and other obligations of the partnership, even if we do not own all of the partnership interests. We also guarantee the debts and other obligations of many of the partnerships and limited liability companies in which we own an interest. Our senior credit facility allows us to borrow up to $150.0 million, including funds that we can lend to the partnerships and limited liability companies in which we own an interest. The physicians and physician groups that own an interest in these partnerships and limited liability companies do not guarantee a pro rata amount of this debt or the other obligations of these partnerships and limited liability companies. If our operations in New York are found not to be in compliance with New York law, we may be unable to continue or expand our operations in New York. We own an interest in a limited liability company which provides administrative services to a surgery center located in New York. New York law requires that, in order to be approved by the New York Department of Health as licensed health care facilities, corporations must have natural persons as stockholders. Accordingly, we are not able to own interests in a partnership or limited liability company that owns an interest in a New York health care facility. New York law also prohibits the delegation of certain management functions by a licensed health care facility. The law does permit a licensed facility to obtain various services from non-licensed entities; however, it is not clear what types of delegation constitute a violation. Although we believe that our operations and relationships in New York are in compliance with these laws, if New York regulatory authorities or a third party asserts a contrary position we may be unable to continue or expand our operations in New York. 34 Table of Contents If regulations change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of our physician partners or renegotiate some of our partnership and operating agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with surgery centers. Upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations, we may be obligated to purchase all of the ownership interests of the physician investors in most of the partnerships or limited liability companies that own and operate our surgery centers. The purchase price that we would be required to pay for these ownership interests is typically based on either a multiple of the center’s EBITDA, as defined in our partnership and operating agreements with these centers, or the fair market value of the ownership interests as determined by a third-party appraisal. The physician investors in some of our surgery centers can require us to purchase their interests in exchange for cash or shares of our common stock if these regulatory changes occur. In addition, some of our partnership agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with surgery centers require us to attempt to renegotiate the agreements upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations and provide for termination of the agreements if renegotiations are not successful. Regulatory changes that could create purchase or renegotiation obligations include changes that: • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our surgery centers by physician investors; • create a substantial likelihood that cash distributions to physician investors from the partnerships or limited liability companies through which we operate our surgery centers would be illegal; or • make illegal the ownership by the physician investors of interests in the partnerships or limited liability companies through which we own and operate our surgery centers. We do not control whether or when any of these regulatory events might occur. In the event we are required to purchase all of the physicians’ ownership interests, our existing capital resources would not be sufficient for us to meet this obligation. These obligations and the possible termination of our partnership and management agreements would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we become subject to malpractice and related legal claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other health care providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Currently, we maintain professional and general liability insurance that provides coverage on a claims made basis of $1.0 million per occurrence and $3.0 million in annual aggregate coverage per facility. We also maintain business interruption insurance and property damage insurance, as well as an additional umbrella liability insurance policy in the aggregate amount of $20.0 million. However, this insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Significant indebtedness could limit our ability to operate our business and pursue business opportunities. As of March 10, 2006, we had outstanding debt under our senior credit facility of about $103.0 million that we incurred to finance our acquisitions and developments and for other general corporate purposes. Our senior credit facility allows us to borrow up to $150.0 million. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 35 Table of Contents • some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and we are vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; • we may be at a disadvantage to our competitors who are less leveraged; • we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • our senior credit facility contains numerous financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on paying dividends, incurring additional indebtedness and buying or selling assets; and • our senior credit facility requires us to pledge the capital stock or other equity interests of our subsidiaries to the bank group as collateral security. We face intense competition for physicians, strategic relationships, acquisitions and managed care contracts, which may result in a decline in our revenues, profitability and market share. The health care business is highly competitive. We compete with other health care providers, primarily hospitals and other surgery centers, in recruiting physicians to utilize our facilities and in contracting with managed care payors in each of our markets. There are unaffiliated hospitals in each market in which we operate. These hospitals have established relationships with physicians and payors. In addition, other companies either are currently in the same or similar business of developing, acquiring and operating surgery centers and other facilities or may decide to enter our business. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do, including financial, marketing, staff and capital resources. We may also compete with some of these companies for entry into strategic relationships with health care systems and health care professionals. In addition, many physician groups develop surgery centers without a corporate partner, utilizing consultants who perform services for a fee and do not take an equity interest in the ongoing operations of the center. In recent years, more physicians are choosing to perform procedures, including pain management and gastrointestinal procedures, in an office-based setting rather than in a surgery center or hospital. If we are unable to compete effectively with any of these entities or groups, we may be unable to implement our business strategies successfully and our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. A large number of our surgery centers are located in Texas and Florida, which makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in those states. In addition, four of our surgery centers account for a significant portion of our patient service revenues. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in the states of Texas and Florida. As of March 10, 2006, we operated seven surgery centers in Texas and eight surgery centers in Florida. The surgery centers in Texas represented about 20.2% of our patient service revenues during 2005 and the surgery centers in Florida represented about 14.4% of our patient service revenues during 2005. In addition, Physicians Surgical Specialty Hospital in Houma, Louisiana, NorthStar Surgical Center in Lubbock, Texas, The Surgery Center of Kirkwood in Kirkwood, Missouri and Wilmington SurgCare in Wilmington, North Carolina, generated about 6.6%, 6.6%, 5.5% and 5.3%, respectively, of our patient service revenues during 2005. If these facilities are adversely affected by regulatory, economic and other conditions, or if these facilities do not perform effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. None of our remaining surgery centers accounted for more than 5.0% of our revenues during 2005. We depend on our senior management and we may be adversely affected if we lose any member of our senior management. We are highly dependent on our senior management, including Richard E. Francis, Jr., our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and Clifford G. Adlerz, our president and chief operating officer. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Francis and Adlerz and William V.B. Webb, our chief development officer. 36 Table of Contents The initial term of each of these agreements is three years, which is automatically extended so that the term is three years until terminated. We may terminate each employment agreement for cause. In addition, either party may terminate the employment agreement at any time by giving prior written notice to the other party. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers. Because our senior management has contributed greatly to our growth since inception, the loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We face risks related to compliance with corporate governance laws and financial reporting standards. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related new rules and regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Nasdaq and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These new laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to internal control over financial reporting (“Section 404”), have materially increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. We became a public company in February 2004 and we were required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 commencing with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We believe that we are in compliance with Section 404. Failure to be fully compliant with these rules and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to integrate and manage our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted. Our operations depend significantly on effective information systems. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires frequent transitions from, and the integration of, various information systems. If we experience difficulties with the transition from information systems or are unable to maintain properly or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We may have a special legal responsibility to the holders of ownership interests in the entities through which we own our surgery centers, which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders and prevent us from acting solely in our own best interests or the interests of our stockholders. Our ownership interests in surgery centers generally are held through limited partnerships or limited liability companies in which we maintain an ownership interest along with physicians or physician practice groups. As general partner or manager of these entities, we may have a special responsibility, known as a fiduciary duty, to manage these entities in the best interests of the other interest holders. We also have a duty to operate our business for the benefit of our stockholders. As a result, we may encounter conflicts between our responsibility to the other interest holders and our responsibility to our stockholders. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our surgery centers in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, we are obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests or the interests of our stockholders. Disputes may also arise between us and our physician investors with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the applicable limited partnership agreement or operating agreement. We seek to avoid these disputes but have not implemented any measures to resolve these conflicts if they arise. If we are unable to resolve a dispute on terms favorable or satisfactory to us, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. We are a holding company and our ability to service our debt and pay dividends, if any, is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries. The distributions of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by these subsidiaries to us, all of which are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings, are 37 Table of Contents subject to various business considerations. In addition, distributions by subsidiaries could be subject to statutory restrictions, including state laws requiring that the subsidiary be solvent, or contractual restrictions. We do not have exclusive control over the distribution of cash from our operating entities and may be unable to cause all or a portion of the cash of these entities to be distributed. All of the surgery centers in which we have ownership interests are held through partnerships or limited liability companies. We typically own, directly or indirectly, the general partnership or majority member interests in these entities. The partnership and operating agreements for these entities provide for distribution of available cash, in some cases on a quarterly basis. If we are unable to cause sufficient revenues to be distributed from one or more of these entities, our relationships with the physicians who also own an interest in these entities may be damaged and we could be adversely affected. We may not be able to resolve favorably any dispute regarding revenue distribution or other matters with a health care system with which we share control of the distributions made by these entities. Further, the failure to resolve a dispute with these health care systems could cause an entity in which we own an interest to be dissolved. Our stockholder rights plan, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could prevent or discourage a change in our management or a takeover you may consider favorable. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable. The rights plan may also entrench our management by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to replace or remove our management or board of directors. In addition, some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable or the removal of our current management. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent without the approval of our board of directors; • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be approved at meetings of stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also prohibit the amendment of many of the provisions in the certificate of incorporation and bylaws by our stockholders unless the amendment is approved by the holders of at least 67% of our shares of common stock. In addition, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. Because our management and their affiliates together own a large percentage of our common stock, they will be able to exert significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, regardless of the preferences of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, our officers, directors and their affiliates together beneficially owned about 12.9% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders are able to exert significant influence over: • the election of our board of directors; • our management and policies; and 38 Table of Contents • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Our officers, directors and their affiliates are also able to exert significant influence over a change in our control or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. In addition, we granted registration rights to these stockholders covering all shares of our stock that they own. Their interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of common stock and they may take actions affecting us with which you disagree. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because we have not paid dividends and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, you should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Further, under the terms of our senior credit facility, we are restricted from paying cash dividends and making other distributions to our stockholders. Our stock price is likely to be highly volatile. Before February 6, 2004, there was no public market for our common stock. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially, including: • our failure or delay in meeting our development and acquisition plans; • our revenues and operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; • changes in laws and regulations governing health care and the surgery center industry; • proposed or enacted changes in reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors; • changes in securities analysts’ financial estimates or recommendations; • investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and • general economic trends and market conditions, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. In the past, other companies in the health care industry have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock and have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We may be involved in securities class action litigation in the future which could divert our management’s attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 39 Table of Contents 