ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our Class A common stock or our notes could decline. If our wholly-owned subsidiary, SunCom Wireless, is unable to continue as a going concern, we may be required to substantially modify our business plan, restructure SunCom Wireless’ balance sheet or file for bankruptcy protection at the SunCom Wireless level. Absent our determination to make additional investments in SunCom Wireless or SunCom Wireless’ ability to secure additional financing, to generate more cash flows from operations in 2006 or to restructure its balance sheet, SunCom Wireless may not have sufficient cash on hand to pay the interest on its debt securities beginning in early 2007. We can offer no assurance that the actions we take to address these conditions will be successful. Inclusion of a “going concern modification” in the report of SunCom Wireless’ independent registered public accounting firm may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain financing with acceptable terms and may adversely impact the trading price of our Class A common stock and SunCom Wireless’ notes. We have experienced losses during four of the last five years, and we may be unable to regain profitability. We reported significant net losses in four of the last five fiscal years. In 2004, we reported net income of $682.5 million. However, our profitability in 2004 was related to the gain arising from the consummation of our transactions with AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless. We may not achieve profitability or maintain profitability, if achieved, on a consistent basis. In addition, our operating expenses may increase in the future 20 Table of Contents as we continue to upgrade our technology. If our gross profit does not grow to offset any such increased expenses, it will be more difficult to reverse our history of losses. Our improved financial performance will primarily depend on our ability to: • grow our subscriber base; • achieve our projected market penetration; • manage customer turnover rates effectively; • price our services competitively; and • control our operating and non-operating expenses. We may not be able to successfully accomplish these tasks, and if we do not, we may not be able to achieve profitability. Continued losses would likely cause the trading price of our Class A common stock and SunCom Wireless’ notes to decrease. We are highly leveraged and do not project sufficient cash flow to fund SunCom Wireless’ debt service and operating expenses past early 2007. Accordingly, absent our determination to make additional investments in SunCom Wireless or SunCom Wireless’ ability to secure another source of liquidity this year, we will need to restructure SunCom Wireless’ balance sheet and/or implement an alternative financial plan, such as a significant asset sale, to reduce its debt. As of December 31, 2005, SunCom Wireless had total consolidated long-term indebtedness of approximately $1.7 billion, represented by a senior secured term loan, a series of senior notes and two series of senior subordinated notes. The annual debt service on this long-term indebtedness is approximately $150 million. Projected cash flow from operations is not expected to be sufficient to pay its debt service and fund its operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements past early 2007. SunCom Wireless’ inability to pay such debt service could result in a default on such indebtedness which, unless cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and financial position. Accordingly, we have retained financial and legal advisors to assist us in evaluating options to improve our financial condition. While no definitive course of action has yet been adopted, absent our determination to make additional investments in SunCom Wireless or SunCom Wireless’ ability to secure another source of liquidity this year, SunCom Wireless will need to restructure its balance sheet, which may occur through a so-called “prepackaged” or “prearranged” bankruptcy, and/or implement an alternative financial plan, such as the sale of a significant portion of SunCom Wireless’ assets, to reduce its long-term debt. There can be no assurance that any such deleveraging efforts will be successful and, if not, SunCom Wireless may have to seek federal bankruptcy protection. In this connection, certain holders of SunCom Wireless’ debt securities have raised legal questions regarding the $189 million dividend paid by SunCom Wireless to its immediate parent, SunCom Wireless Investment Co., LLC, in November 2004. We continue to believe that such dividend was properly paid and the dividend amount has not been utilized or otherwise distributed and remains an asset of SunCom Wireless Investment Co., LLC. SunCom Wireless’ independent registered public accounting firm, in their report on their audit of SunCom Wireless’ financial statements as of December 31, 2005, has expressed substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Our future growth may require significant additional capital, and our substantial indebtedness could impair our ability to fund our capital requirements. We believe that we have sufficient funds to finance our planned capital expenditures for network expansion and upgrades into early 2007, but we may require additional capital in the event of unforeseen delays, cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes, engineering design changes and other technological risks or if we acquire additional licenses. Currently, planned capital expenditures primarily consist of the continued coverage expansion of GSM/GPRS technology to increase capacity and enhance the network to support our expected increase in subscribers. GSM digital technology has positioned us to earn 21 Table of Contents roaming revenue from other wireless carriers, such as T-Mobile and Cingular Wireless, which are selling GSM handsets. Sources of funding for our future capital requirements may include any or all of the following: • public offerings or private placements of debt securities; • commercial bank loans; and • equipment lease financing. Due to our highly leveraged capital structure, additional financing may not be available to us, or, if it were available, it may not be available on a timely basis, on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations contained in the indentures governing SunCom Wireless’ 93/8% notes, SunCom Wireless’ 83/4% notes, SunCom Wireless’ 81/2% notes, the documentation governing SunCom Wireless’ senior secured term loan or any new financing arrangements. Failure to obtain any appropriate financing, should the need for it develop, could result in the delay or abandonment of our development and expansion plans and our failure to meet regulatory requirements. It could also impair our ability to meet our debt service requirements and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. The indentures governing SunCom Wireless’ 93/8% notes, SunCom Wireless’ 83/4% notes and SunCom Wireless’ 81/2% notes, as well as the documentation governing SunCom Wireless’ senior secured term loan, contain significant covenants that limit our ability to engage in various transactions. In addition, under each of these documents, the occurrence of specific events, in some cases after notice and grace periods, would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of the respective indebtedness. These events include: • failure to comply with a document’s covenants; • material inaccuracies of representations and warranties; • specified defaults under or acceleration of other indebtedness; and • events of bankruptcy or insolvency. The limitations imposed by SunCom Wireless’ outstanding indebtedness are substantial, and failure to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. SunCom Wireless is currently in compliance with its debt covenants. Our average revenue per user has declined for several years and may not stabilize. Our average revenue per user, or ARPU, has weakened over the past several years, declining from $58.78 in 2001 to $54.79 in 2005. This trend has resulted primarily from: • increased competition, which has reduced pricing generally; and • expansion of subscriber bases to customers on lower price plans, such as prepaid plans and similar plans targeting different market segments. As neither of these trends show signs of abating in the near term, we believe that ARPU will continue to be under pressure, notwithstanding increasing revenue from data services. We have had and may continue to have difficulty penetrating the North Carolina markets we acquired from AT&T Wireless, which has adversely affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the near future. The success of our acquisition of AT&T Wireless’ systems in North Carolina will depend upon our ability to successfully penetrate this market. We no longer operate in Virginia, a market we knew well, and we now operate in the recently acquired North Carolina market, where the SunCom brand is relatively new. As a result of our recent entry into the acquired North Carolina market and the customer turnover experienced as a result 22 Table of Contents of challenges encountered during the migration of acquired AT&T Wireless subscribers to our systems, we currently hold a smaller market position than we did upon the closing of our Exchange Agreement with AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless. In addition, our market position is smaller than that of several of our competitors, including Cingular Wireless and Verizon Wireless. We may not be able to successfully build strong brand identity and compete in this market. Substantial competition in all aspects of our business could continue to cause reduced pricing and have adverse effects on our profit margins. There is substantial competition in all aspects of the wireless communications industry. Our competitors are principally the three nationwide carriers, Cingular Wireless, Verizon Wireless and Sprint/Nextel, and a large number of regional providers of cellular, PCS and other wireless communications services, resellers and wireline telephone service providers. We expect robust competition to continue in the wake of Cingular Wireless’ acquisition of AT&T Wireless and the mergers of Sprint and Nextel and Alltel and Western Wireless. Competition continues to intensify as wireless carriers include more equipment discounts and bundled services in their offerings, including more minutes and free long distance and roaming services. This contributes to downward pressure on revenue growth and profit margins, and we expect this trend to continue. Many of our competitors have substantial financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources. As a response to the intensifying competition, the need for cost reduction and the requirements for additional radio spectrum, we believe that the industry will continue to consolidate. This may produce larger and more formidable competitors with greater financial ability to continue to reduce prices to increase their customer base. As a result, our market share and profit margins may decrease. Our business could be harmed by adverse regulatory changes. U.S. telecommunications providers are subject to federal and state regulations that may change at any time. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems to varying degrees, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. In addition, the FCC, in conjunction with the FAA, regulates tower marking and lighting. We cannot assure you that the FCC, the FAA or the state and local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business. FCC regulations and government policy in general promote robust competition, and new rules or changes to existing rules, such as rules providing for spectrum leasing and requiring wireless local number portability for customers changing wireless local carriers, could increase this trend and result in higher churn and lower margins. Our inability to effectively manage our planned growth could adversely affect our operations. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue to experience growth in the future. The management of such growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, stringent control of costs, increased marketing activities, ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The wireless industry is experiencing rapid technological change, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of advanced wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. New communications technologies, such as “Wi-Fi” and voice over Internet, are being developed and deployed by competitors, which may affect our 23 Table of Contents ability to grow our wireless data and voice businesses. We may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes, and there is no guarantee that any new technologies developed and deployed by us will have long-term marketability. A high rate of customer turnover would negatively impact our business and could reduce our revenues. Many providers in the personal communications services industry, including SunCom, have experienced a high rate of customer turnover. The rate of customer turnover may be the result of several factors, including network coverage, reliability issues such as blocked and dropped calls, handset problems, non-use of phones, change of employment, affordability, customer care concerns and other competitive factors. Our strategy to address customer turnover may not be successful, or the rate of customer turnover may be unacceptable. A high rate of customer turnover could reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and results of operations. If our wireless service offerings or customer care service do not meet customer expectations, it could limit our ability to retain or attract customers. Customer acceptance of the services we offer is and will continue to be affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality, reliability and coverage of our wireless networks. Consumer demand could be impacted by differences in technology, footprint and service areas, network quality, consumer perceptions, customer care levels and rate plans. We may have difficulty retaining customers if we are unable to meet our customers’ expectations for network quality and coverage, billing systems or customer care. An inability to address those issues could limit our ability to expand our network capacity or subscriber base and place us at a competitive disadvantage to other wireless service providers in our markets. These issues could affect our ability to attract new subscribers as well. Our FCC licenses are one of our principal assets, and our business could be harmed if the value of these licenses decreases or if our licenses are revoked by the FCC. One of our principal assets is our portfolio of FCC licenses to provide cellular and personal communications services. The market for the purchase and sale of wireless licenses may not exist in the future or the values of our licenses in that market may fall. If the market value of our licenses were to decrease, we may incur impairment losses or a material loss upon the sale of any of our licenses. The future value of these licenses will largely be determined by the success of our business, but may also be affected by the availability of alternative spectrum in our license areas. In addition to the spectrum currently licensed for PCS, cellular and specialized mobile radio services, the FCC has announced plans to auction substantial additional Advanced Wireless Services spectrum for wireless carrier use in June 2006. While this spectrum may be used by new companies that would compete directly with us, this spectrum could also be acquired by existing wireless companies and used to provide advanced or third generation data services, such as those we plan to offer over our GSM/GPRS network. The loss or revocation of any of our licenses by the FCC would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our personal communications services licenses began to be subject to renewal in 2005, and our cellular license for Myrtle Beach is subject to renewal in 2010. Our FCC licenses are also subject to fines or to potential revocation if we do not comply with the FCC’s rules. Our Universal Service Funding may be reduced or eliminated. Under the FCC’s current rules, Universal Service Funds are distributed to competitive carriers, including wireless carriers, operating in areas where the established landline carriers also receive such funding. In 2005, we received approximately $14.0 million of Universal Service Funds for our operations in Puerto Rico, and have applied for Eligible Telecommunications Carrier status in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. However, the Universal Service Fund rules are currently under review and could be substantially modified. As a result, there is no assurance that we will continue to receive any Universal Service Funds in the future, and the loss or reduction of this revenue could negatively impact our profitability. 24 Table of Contents Roaming revenue represents a significant portion of our total revenues, and its seasonality will subject our revenue and operating income (loss) to seasonal fluctuations. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 12.5%, 17.8% and 22.3%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from roaming charges incurred by other wireless providers for use of our network by their customers who had traveled within our coverage area. A significant portion of that revenue was derived from Cingular Wireless’ customers. In our July 7, 2004 agreements with Cingular Wireless, we agreed to reduce the roaming rates Cingular Wireless pays to us for its customers’ use of our network. In addition, the Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands market generates less roaming revenue than did our former Virginia market. If roaming minutes of use were to decline significantly, we would not be able to maintain the roaming revenue we have historically realized and our results of operations could suffer. Our coverage area includes a number of resort areas that contribute to our roaming revenue. As a result, our roaming revenue increases during vacation periods, introducing a measure of seasonality to our revenue and operating income (loss). Termination or impairment of our relationship with a small number of key suppliers or vendors could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have developed relationships with a small number of key vendors for our supply of wireless handsets and devices, telecommunications infrastructure equipment, billing and customer care services and for information systems. We do not have operational or financial control over our key suppliers and have limited influence with respect to the manner in which these key suppliers conduct their businesses. If these companies were unable to honor, or otherwise failed to honor their obligations to us, or terminate their relationship with us, we could experience disruptions of our business and adverse effects on our revenues and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. A small number of key executive officers manage our business. Their loss could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the personal communications services industry as the emerging personal communications services market develops, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We do not presently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executives or other employees. Equipment failure and disasters may adversely affect our operations. A major equipment failure or a natural disaster, terrorist act or other breach of network security that affects our wireless telephone switching offices, microwave links, third-party owned local and long distance networks on which we rely, our cell sites or other equipment or the networks of other providers on which our customers roam could have a material adverse effect on our operations. While we have insurance coverage for some of these events, our inability to operate our wireless system, even for a limited time period, may result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If hand-held phones pose health and safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and there may be a decrease in demand for our services. Media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against other participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. While many of these lawsuits were dismissed because of a 25 Table of Contents lack of scientific evidence linking wireless handsets with cancer, other lawsuits were recently sent back to the trial court for further review. In addition, future lawsuits could be filed based on new evidence. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets, and regulators may impose restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and expose wireless providers to further litigation, which, even if not successful, can be costly to defend. We cannot assure you that government authorities will not increase regulation of wireless handsets and cell sites as a result of these health concerns or that wireless companies will not be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could also adversely affect us through a reduced subscriber growth rate, a reduction in subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or reduced financing available to the wireless communications industry. Our institutional investors invest in other wireless communications services companies, and conflicts of interest may arise from these investments and from other directorships held by SunCom’s directors that may not be resolved in our favor. Our principal institutional investors, or their affiliates, may have investments in wireless communications services companies other than SunCom. These institutional investors may in the future invest in other entities that compete with us. In addition, several of SunCom’s directors serve as directors of other communications services companies. As a result, these directors may be subject to conflicts of interest during their tenure as directors of SunCom. Because of these potential conflicts, these directors may be required to disclose periodically financial or business opportunities to us and to the other companies to which they owe fiduciary duties. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 