RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report and the following description of risks and uncertainties that we currently believe may exist. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See "Forward-Looking Statements". Our business is exposed to risks associated with the volatile global economic environment and political conditions. Adverse changes in economic or political conditions, both inside and outside the U.S., could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Economic volatility and financial market disruptions may adversely impact the demand for our products and services. These and other factors may prevent our customers and suppliers from obtaining the financing required to pursue their business activities as planned, which may force them to modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase or supply our products or services. In addition, if our customers do not generate sufficient revenue, or fail to obtain access to the capital markets, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe us. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense for us, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are also subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements and hedging transactions may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that prevents them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. Apart from effects relating to the financial crisis and the global economic slowdown that it entailed, our business environment is influenced by numerous other economic or political uncertainties which will affect the global economy and the international capital markets. In periods of slow economic growth or decline, our customers are more likely to decrease expenditures on the types of products and systems we supply and we are more likely to experience decreased revenues as a result. Our power technology divisions are affected by the level of investments by utilities, and our automation technology divisions are affected by conditions in a broad range of industries, including the automotive, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper, marine, metals and minerals and manufacturing and consumer industries. At various times during the last several years, we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned expansion, increases in pension and postretirement benefit expenses, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. In addition, we are subject to the risks that our business operations in or with certain countries may be adversely affected by trade or economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed on these countries and that actual or potential investors that object to these business operations may adversely affect the price of our shares by disposing of, or deciding not to, purchase our shares. These countries may from time to time include countries that are identified by the United States as state sponsors of terrorism. In 2013, our total revenues from business with countries identified by the U.S. government as 6 Table of Contents state sponsors of terrorism represented a very small percentage of our total revenues. Based on the amount of revenues and other relevant quantitative and qualitative factors, we have determined that our business in 2013 with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism was not material. Illegal behavior by any of our employees or agents could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated operating results, cash flows, and financial position as well as on our reputation and our ability to do business. Certain of our employees or agents have taken, and may in the future take, actions that violate or are alleged to violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA), legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, applicable antitrust laws and other applicable laws or regulations. For more information regarding investigations of past actions taken by certain of our employees, see "Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings". Such actions have resulted, and in the future could result, in governmental investigations, enforcement actions, civil and criminal penalties, including monetary penalties and other sanctions, and civil litigation. It is possible that any governmental investigation or enforcement action arising from such matters could conclude that a violation of applicable law has occurred and the consequences of any such investigation or enforcement action may have a material adverse impact on our consolidated operating results, cash flows and financial position. In addition, such actions, whether actual or alleged, could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Further, detecting, investigating and resolving such actions could be expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. While we are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, our internal control systems have not been, and in the future may not be, completely effective to prevent and detect such improper activities by our employees and agents. Our operations in emerging markets expose us to risks associated with conditions in those markets. A significant amount of our operations is conducted in the emerging markets in South America, Asia, and the Middle East and Africa. In 2013, approximately 46 percent of our consolidated revenues were generated from these emerging markets. Operations in emerging markets can present risks that are not encountered in countries with well-established economic and political systems, including: •economic instability, which could make it difficult for us to anticipate future business conditions in these markets, cause delays in the placement of orders for projects that we have been awarded and subject us to volatile geographic markets, •political or social instability, such as the recent political unrest in Northern Africa, which could make our customers less willing to make cross-border investments in such regions and could complicate our dealings with governments regarding permits or other regulatory matters, local businesses and workforces, •boycotts and embargoes that may be imposed by the international community on countries in which we operate could adversely affect the ability of our operations in those countries to obtain the materials necessary to fulfill contracts and our ability to pursue business or establish operations in those countries, •foreign state takeovers of our facilities, •significant fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, •the imposition of unexpected taxes or other payments on our revenues in these markets, 7 Table of Contents •the ability to obtain financing and/or insurance coverage from export credit agencies, and •the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. Additionally, political and social instability resulting from increased violence in certain countries in which we do business has raised concerns about the safety of our personnel. These concerns may hinder our ability to send personnel abroad and to hire and retain local personnel. Such concerns may require us to increase security for personnel traveling to such facilities or to conduct more operations from our other facilities rather than from facilities located in such countries, which may negatively impact our operations and result in higher costs and inefficiencies. In addition, the legal and regulatory systems of many emerging market countries are less developed and less well-enforced than in industrialized countries. Therefore, our ability to protect our contractual and other legal rights in these countries could be limited. Consequently, our exposure to the conditions in or affecting emerging markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Undertaking long-term, fixed price or turnkey projects exposes our businesses to risk of loss should our actual costs exceed our estimated or budgeted costs. We derive a portion of our revenues from long-term, fixed price or turnkey projects that are awarded on a competitive basis and can take many months, or even years, to complete. Such contracts involve substantial risks, including the possibility that we may underbid and the fact that we typically assume substantially all of the risks associated with completing the project and the post-completion warranty obligations. These risks include the project's technical risk, meaning that we must tailor our products and systems to satisfy the technical requirements of a project even though, at the time we are awarded the project, we may not have previously produced such a product or system. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on such contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections because of changes in conditions, including but not limited to: •unanticipated technical problems with the equipment being supplied or developed by us which may require us to incur incremental expenses to remedy the problem, •changes in the cost of components, materials or labor, •difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals, •project modifications that create unanticipated costs, •delays caused by force majeure or local weather and geological conditions, including natural disasters, •customer delays, •shortages of construction equipment, •changes in law or government policy, •supply bottlenecks, especially of key components, and •suppliers', subcontractors' or consortium partners' failure to perform. These risks are exacerbated if the duration of the project is extended because then there is an increased risk that the circumstances upon which we originally bid and quoted a price change in a manner that increases our costs. In addition, we sometimes bear the risk of delays caused by unexpected conditions or events. Our project contracts often make us subject to penalties if we cannot complete portions of the project in accordance with agreed-upon time limits and guaranteed performance levels. 8 Table of Contents We operate in very competitive markets and could be adversely affected if we fail to keep pace with technological changes. We operate in very competitive environments in particular with respect to product performance, developing integrated systems and applications that address the business challenges faced by our customers, pricing, new product introduction time and customer service. The relative importance of these factors differs across the geographic markets and product areas that we serve. The markets for our products and services are characterized by evolving industry standards (particularly for our automation technology products and systems), rapidly changing technology and increased competition as a result of privatization (particularly for our power products and systems). For example, as power transmission and distribution providers throughout the world have been undergoing substantial privatization, their need has increased for timely product and service innovations that increase efficiency and allow them to compete in a deregulated environment. Additionally, the continual development of advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements is an important way in which we maintain acceptable pricing levels. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes in the industrial sectors that we serve, we may experience price erosion and lower margins. All of our primary competitors are sophisticated companies with significant resources that may develop products and services that are superior to our products and services or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, industry changes or evolving customer requirements. We are also facing increased competition from low cost competitors in emerging markets, which may give rise to increased pressure to reduce our prices. Our failure to anticipate or respond quickly to technological developments or customer requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our multi-national operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and could continue to have, a material impact on our operating results, the comparability of our results between periods, the value of assets or liabilities as recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the price of our securities. The global financial crisis has led to increased volatility in exchange rates, which makes it harder to predict exchange rates and thus do accurate financial planning. Changes in exchange rates can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results and could result in exchange losses. Currency Translation Risk. The results of operations and financial position of most of our non-U.S. companies are initially recorded in the currency, which we call "local currency," of the country in which the respective company resides. That financial information is then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The exchange rates between local currencies and the U.S. dollar can fluctuate substantially, which could have a significant translation effect on our reported consolidated results of operations and financial position. Increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies will affect the reported value of our local currency assets, liabilities, revenues and costs in our Consolidated Financial Statements, even if the value of these items has not changed in local currency terms. These translations could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position from period to period. Currency Transaction Risk. Currency risk exposure also affects our operations when our sales are denominated in currencies that are different from those in which our manufacturing or sourcing costs are incurred. In this case, if after the parties agree on a price, the value of the currency in which the price is to be paid were to weaken relative to the currency in which we incur manufacturing or sourcing costs, there would be a negative impact on the profit margin for any such transaction. This transaction risk may exist regardless of whether or not there is also a currency translation risk as described above. 9 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations in those currencies in which we incur our principal manufacturing expenses or sourcing costs may adversely affect our ability to compete with companies whose costs are incurred in other currencies. If our principal expense currencies appreciate in value against such other currencies, our competitiveness may be weakened. Our hedging activities may not protect us against the consequences of significant fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices on our earnings and cash flows. Our policy is to hedge material currency exposures by entering into offsetting transactions with third-party financial institutions. Given the effective horizons of our risk management activities and the anticipatory nature of the exposures intended to be hedged, there can be no assurance that our currency hedging activities will fully offset the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. In addition, the timing of the accounting for recognition of gains and losses related to a hedging instrument may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses related to the underlying economic exposures. As a resource-intensive operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices and interest rates. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our business. As part of our effort to manage these exposures, we may enter into commodity price and interest rate hedging arrangements. Nevertheless, changes in commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. If we are unable to successfully manage the risk of changes in exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices or if our hedging counterparties are unable to perform their obligations under our hedging agreements with them, then changes in these rates and prices could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in costs or limitation of supplies of raw materials may adversely affect our financial performance. We purchase large amounts of commodity-based raw materials, including steel, copper, aluminum and oil. Prevailing prices for such commodities are subject to fluctuations due to changes in supply and demand and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as global political and economic conditions. Historically, prices for some of these raw materials have been volatile and unpredictable, and such volatility is expected to continue. Therefore, commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material costs, and we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volumes, revenues or operating income. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. We depend on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials and components, which could limit our ability to manufacture products on a timely basis and could harm our profitability. For some raw materials and components, we rely on a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. If one of these suppliers were unable to provide us with a raw material or component we need, our ability to manufacture some of our products could be adversely affected until we are able to establish a new supply arrangement. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of materials on a timely basis, the manufacture and sale of our products may be disrupted, we might have obligations under our performance guarantees and our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents An inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property rights are fundamental to all of our businesses. We generate, maintain, utilize and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks, trade dress, patents and other intellectual property rights globally. Intellectual property protection is subject to applicable laws in various local jurisdictions where interpretations and protections vary or can be unpredictable and costly to enforce. We use our intellectual property rights to protect the goodwill of our products, promote our product recognition, protect our proprietary technology and development activities, enhance our competitiveness and otherwise support our business goals and objectives. However, there can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate. Our intellectual property rights may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages, particularly in foreign jurisdictions that do not have, or do not enforce, strong intellectual property rights. The weakening of protection of our trademarks, trade dress, patents and other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. Failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. We design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in our development or delivery of products or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. In addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. Examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received as well as potential damages, which may significantly exceed the contract price. Industry consolidation could result in more powerful competitors and fewer customers. Competitors in the industries in which we operate are consolidating. In particular, the automation industry is undergoing consolidation that is reducing the number but increasing the size of companies that compete with us. As our competitors consolidate, they likely will increase their market share, gain economies of scale that enhance their ability to compete with us and/or acquire additional products and technologies that could displace our product offerings. Our customer base also is undergoing consolidation. Consolidation within our customers' industries (such as the marine and cruise industry, the automotive, aluminum, steel, pulp and paper and pharmaceutical industries and the oil and gas industry) could affect our customers and their relationships with us. If one of our competitors' customers acquires any of our customers, we may lose that business. Additionally, as our customers become larger and more concentrated, they could exert pricing pressure on all suppliers, including us. For example, in an industry such as power transmission, which historically has consisted of large and concentrated customers such as utilities, price competition can be a factor in determining which products and services will be selected by a customer. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We incur costs to comply with such regulations, and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to U.S., European and other laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Our manufacturing facilities use and produce paint residues, solvents, metals, oils and related residues. We use petroleum-based insulation in transformers, polyvinylchloride (PVC) resin to manufacture PVC cable and chloroparaffin as a flame retardant. We have manufactured and sold, and we are using in some of our factories, certain types of transformers and capacitors containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). These are considered to be hazardous substances in many jurisdictions in which we operate. We may be subject to substantial liabilities for environmental contamination arising from the use of such substances. All of our manufacturing operations are subject to ongoing compliance costs in respect of environmental matters and the associated capital expenditure requirements. In addition, we may be subject to significant fines and penalties if we do not comply with environmental laws and regulations including those referred to above. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several or strict liability for remediation of releases of hazardous substances, which could result in us incurring a liability for environmental damage without regard to our negligence or fault. Such laws and regulations could expose us to liability arising out of the conduct of operations or conditions caused by others, or for our acts which were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. Additionally, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances. Changes in the environmental laws and regulations, or claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources or the environment, could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us. We may be the subject of product liability claims. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by the design, manufacture or operation of our products and systems. Additionally, we may be subject to product liability claims for the improper installation of products and systems designed and manufactured by others. Product liability claims brought against us may be based in tort or in contract, and typically involve claims seeking compensation for personal injury or property damage. If the claimant runs a commercial business, claims are often made also for financial losses arising from interruption of operations. Based on the nature and application of many of the products we manufacture, a defect or alleged defect in one of these products could have serious consequences. For example: •If the products produced by our power technology divisions are defective, there is a risk of fires, explosions and power surges, and significant damage to electricity generating, transmission and distribution facilities as well as electrical shock causing injury or death. •If the products produced by our automation technology divisions are defective, our customers could suffer significant damage to facilities and equipment that rely on these products and systems to properly monitor and control their manufacturing processes. Additionally, people could be exposed to electrical shock and/or other harm causing injury or death. •If any of the products produced by us contain hazardous substances then there is a risk that such products or substances could injure or kill people. If we were to incur a very large product liability claim, our insurance protection might not be adequate or sufficient to cover such a claim in terms of paying any awards or settlements, and/or paying for our defense costs. Further, some claims may be outside the scope of our insurance coverage. If a litigant were successful against us, a lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our market reputation which could 12 Table of Contents result in a decline in demand for our products. Furthermore, if we were required or we otherwise determined to make a product recall, the costs could be significant. We may encounter difficulty in managing our business due to the global nature of our operations. We operate in approximately 100 countries around the world and, as of December 31, 2013, employed approximately 150,000 people. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 44 percent of our employees were located in Europe, approximately 23 percent in the Americas, approximately 27 percent in Asia and approximately 6 percent in the Middle East and Africa. In order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. In addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with the laws of multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor group-wide standards and directives across our global network. Our failure to manage successfully our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with group-wide standards and procedures. If we are unable to obtain performance and other guarantees from financial institutions, we may be prevented from bidding on, or obtaining, some contracts, or our costs with respect to such contracts could be higher. In the normal course of our business and in accordance with industry practice, we provide a number of guarantees including bid-bonds, advance payment guarantees and performance guarantees, which guarantee our own performance. These guarantees may include guarantees that a project will be completed or that a project or particular equipment will achieve defined performance criteria. If we fail to attain the defined criteria, we must make payments in cash or in kind. Performance guarantees frequently are requested in relation to large projects in our core power and automation businesses. Some customers require that performance guarantees be issued by a financial institution. In considering whether to issue a guarantee on our behalf, financial institutions consider our credit ratings. In addition, the global financial crisis has made it more difficult and expensive to obtain these guarantees. If, in the future, we cannot obtain such a guarantee from a financial institution on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we could be prevented from bidding on, or obtaining, some contracts, or our costs with respect to such contracts could be higher, which would reduce the profitability of the contracts. If we cannot obtain guarantees on commercially reasonable terms or at all from financial institutions in the future, there could be a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Examinations by tax authorities and changes in tax regulations could result in lower earnings and cash flows. We operate in approximately 100 countries and therefore are subject to different tax regulations. Changes in tax law could result in higher tax expense and payments. Furthermore, this could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. In addition, the uncertainty of tax environment in some regions could limit our ability to enforce our rights. As a globally operating organization, we conduct business in countries subject to complex tax rules, which may be interpreted in different ways. Future interpretations or developments of tax regimes may affect our tax liability, return on investments and business operations. We are regularly examined by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified management and personnel then our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain highly qualified personnel, particularly our senior management team and key employees. Competition for highly 13 Table of Contents qualified management and technical personnel remains intense in the industries and regions in which we operate. If we are unable to attract and retain members of our senior management team and key employees this could have an adverse effect on our business. Anticipated benefits of existing and potential future mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances may not be realized. As part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire businesses or interests in businesses, including noncontrolling interests, or form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance and development of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies, our correct assessment of assumed liabilities and the management of the operations in question. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance and liability issues, transaction-related charges, amortization related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets and partner performance. Although we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to identify and mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. We could be affected by future laws or regulations enacted to address climate change concerns as well as the physical effects of climate change. Although we do not believe existing or pending laws and regulations intended to address climate change concerns will materially adversely affect our current business or operations, such laws and regulations could materially affect us in the future. We may need to incur additional costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We could also be affected indirectly by increased prices for goods or services provided to us by companies that are directly affected by these laws and regulations and pass their increased costs through to their customers. At this time, we cannot estimate what impact such costs may have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We could also be affected by the physical consequences of climate change itself, although we cannot estimate what impact those consequences might have on our business or operations. Increased information technology (IT) security threats and more sophisticated cyber-attacks could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. We have observed a global increase in IT security threats and more sophisticated cyber-attacks, both in general and against us, which pose a risk to the security of systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data stored and transmitted on those systems and networks. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems such as firewalls and virus scanners, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to attacks. Depending on their nature and scope, such attacks could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, or those we supplied to our customers, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and supply shortages, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents 