Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly revise our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents Part I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading non-asset based North American logistics provider. Within North America, we are one of the largest intermodal marketing companies, which facilitate the movement of freight by trailer or container using two or more modes of transportation, and we also provide truck brokerage services. We focus our business on our core intermodal product, with intermodal sales representing approximately 80% of our total revenues. We believe that our competitive advantages include: the ability to pass volume rate savings and economies of scale to our customers; a significant opportunity to cross-sell services to existing customers; the flexibility to tailor services to our customers’ needs in rapidly changing freight markets; and the ability to provide reliable and consistent services. Using our proprietary information systems, we provide logistics services to numerous Fortune 500 and multi-national companies, including Big Lots, C.H. Robinson, General Electric, Sony, Union Pacific, Toyota and Whirlpool, which together represented approximately 20% of our 2005 revenues, as well as numerous middle-market companies. We utilize a non-asset based strategy in which we seek to limit our investment in equipment and facilities and reduce working capital requirements through arrangements with transportation carriers and equipment providers. This strategy provides us with access to freight terminals and facilities and control over transportation-related equipment without owning assets. We believe our non-asset based strategy results in reduced working capital requirements, as compared to those of asset-based transportation providers. In our wholesale segment, our contractual arrangements with our underlying rail carriers and local trucking or drayage companies do not require us to pay for rail or truck transportation services that are not needed to service our customers’ shipping needs. In our retail segment, our contractual arrangements with rail and truck carriers and equipment providers also do not require us to purchase or pay for carrier services or for equipment usage or availability that are not required to service our customers’ shipping needs. We believe that this is customary in the non-asset based intermodal marketing and rail and truck brokerage industries in which our retail segment competes. Also, our trucking services units utilize independent owner-operators, who own and operate their equipment, to provide truck transportation for our customers, and our agreements with these owner-operators do not require us to pay for truck services or for equipment usage or availability that are not actually used to transport our customers’ goods. We believe that our non-asset based competitors in the trucking services sector utilize a similar model. Available Information We file or furnish our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K, annual reports to shareholders and annual Proxy Statement with or to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our SEC filings are available to the public on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. These reports are also available free of charge from our website at http://www.pacer-international.com, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish such material with or to the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or of any registration statement that incorporates this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. Our Service Offerings We provide our logistics services from two operating segments, our wholesale segment, which provides services principally to transportation intermediaries and international shipping companies, and our retail segment, which provides services principally to end-user customers. These segments have separate management teams and offer different but related products and services (see Note 8 to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial results by segment). We believe that the combination of our wholesale and retail products with our ability to provide our customers with a comprehensive portfolio of services presents opportunities for enhanced growth and operational synergies. For example, revenues generated by our wholesale segment and originated by our retail segment were approximately $166 million, $122 million and $127 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 5 Table of Contents Wholesale Services Intermodal Services Intermodal transportation is the movement of freight via trailer or container using two or more modes of transportation which nearly always include a rail and truck segment. Our use of the doublestack method, consisting of the movement of cargo containers stacked two high on special railcars, significantly improves the efficiency of our service by increasing capacity at low incremental cost without sacrificing quality of service. We are a major non-railroad provider of intermodal rail service in North America. We sell intermodal service primarily to intermodal marketing companies, large automotive intermediaries and international shipping companies, as well as to our own wholly-owned internal intermodal marketing company. We compete primarily with rail carriers offering intermodal service and indirectly with over-the-road full truckload carriers. Through long-term contracts and other operating arrangements with North American railroads, including Union Pacific, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, CSX, KCSM in Mexico (formerly the TFM), and Canadian National Railroad, we have access to a 50,000-mile North American rail network serving most major population and commercial centers in the United States, Canada and Mexico. These contracts provide for, among other things, competitive rates, minimum service standards, capacity assurances, priority handling and the utilization of nationwide terminal facilities. We maintain an extensive fleet of doublestack railcars, containers and chassis, substantially all of which are leased. As of December 30, 2005, our equipment fleet consisted of 1,858 doublestack railcars, 28,231 containers and 28,697 chassis (steel frames with rubber tires used to transport containers over the highway). We provide APL Limited and other shipping companies with equipment repositioning services from destinations within North America to the West Coast. To the extent we are able to fill these empty containers with the westbound freight of other customers, we receive compensation from the shipping companies for our repositioning service and from our other customers for the shipment of their freight. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we filled 91,628, 94,827 and 92,356 repositioned containers, respectively, with freight shipped on behalf of our domestic customers. The size of our leased and owned equipment fleet, the frequent departures available to us through our rail contracts and the scope of the geographic coverage of our rail network provide our customers with single-company control over their transportation requirements, which we believe gives us an advantage in attaining at a competitive price the responsiveness and reliability required by our customers. In addition, our access to information technology enables us to continuously track containers, chassis and railcars throughout our transportation network. Through our equipment fleet and arrangements with rail carriers, we can control the equipment used in our wholesale operations and employ full-time personnel on-site at many terminals, which allows us to ensure close coordination of the services provided at these facilities. Local Cartage Our local cartage operations are largely provided in and around major U.S. cities, including Los Angeles, Long Beach, San Diego, Lathrop, Oakland and Sacramento (California), Houston and Dallas (Texas), Jacksonville (Florida), Chicago (Illinois), Columbus, Cleveland and Marysville (Ohio), Philadelphia and Harrisburg (Pennsylvania), Memphis (Tennessee), Kansas City (Kansas), Charleston (South Carolina), Seattle (Washington), Portland (Oregon), Plymouth (New Jersey) and Atlanta, Savannah and Dalton (Georgia). We contract with independent trucking contractors and maintain interchange agreements with many major steamship lines, railroads and intermodal equipment providers which allow the interchange and use of equipment supplied by these providers. This network allows us to supply the local transportation requirements across the country of shippers, ocean carriers and freight forwarders. New Wholesale Door-to-Door Product In 2005, our Stacktrain unit began testing a new door-to-door transportation service offering called PacerDirect with several intermodal marketing companies, including our own wholly-owned 6 Table of Contents intermodal marketing company. PacerDirect uses both our cartage and Stacktrain operations to provide improved one-source transportation service to intermodal marketing companies and other transportation intermediaries. We will continue development and further introduction of this seamless, door-to-door product to additional third party intermediaries and markets during 2006. Retail Services Rail Brokerage We arrange for and optimize the movement of our customers’ freight in containers and trailers throughout North America utilizing truck and rail transportation. We arrange for a container or trailer shipment to be picked up at origin by truck and transported to a site for loading onto a train. The shipment is then transported via railroad (using either our wholesale services or rail carriers directly) to a site for unloading from the train in the vicinity of the final destination. After the shipment has been unloaded from the train and is available for pick-up, we arrange for the shipment to be transported by truck to the final destination. We provide customized electronic tracking and analysis of charges, and our own negotiated rail, truck and intermodal rates, and we determine the optimal routes. We also track and monitor shipments in transit, consolidate billing, handle claims of freight loss or damage on behalf of our customers and manage the handling, consolidation and storage of freight throughout the process. We provide the majority of these services both internally through our wholesale service and truck services units, and externally through third-party rail and truck carriers. Our rail brokerage operations are based in Pasadena (California), Rutherford (New Jersey), Memphis (Tennessee), Dublin and Dayton (Ohio), Toronto (Canada) and Mexico City (Mexico). Our experienced transportation personnel are responsible for operations, customer service, marketing, management information systems and our relationships with the rail carriers. Through our rail brokerage operations, we assist the railroads and our wholesale operation in balancing freight resulting in improved asset utilization. In addition, we serve our customers by passing on economies of scale that we achieve as a volume buyer from railroads, trucking companies and other third party transportation providers, providing access to large equipment pools and streamlining the paperwork and logistics of an intermodal move. Truck Brokerage and Truck Services Through our truck brokerage unit, we arrange the movement of freight in containers or trailers by truck using a nationwide network of over 3,000 independent trucking companies. By utilizing our aggregate volumes to negotiate rates, we are able to provide high quality service at attractive prices. We provide truck brokerage services throughout North America through our customer service centers in Livermore (California), Dallas (Texas), Chicago (Illinois), Phoenix (Arizona), Conyers (Georgia), Rutherford (New Jersey), and Dublin (Ohio). We manage all aspects of these services for our customers, including selecting qualified carriers, negotiating rates, tracking shipments, billing and resolving difficulties. Our separate truck services unit provides dry van and flatbed and specialized heavy-haul trucking services on behalf of our customers. We provide these trucking services through independent agents and contractors who operate approximately 650 trucks equipped with van, flatbed and heavy-haul trailers. We believe that our ability to provide a range of trucking services through our separate retail truck brokerage and truck services units and our wholesale local cartage operations provides a competitive advantage as companies increasingly seek to outsource their transportation and logistics needs to companies that can manage multiple transportation requirements. International Freight Forwarding Services As an international freight forwarder, we provide freight forwarding services that involve transportation of freight into or out of the United States. As a non-vessel operating common carrier (or indirect ocean carrier) and customs broker, we manage international shipping for our customers and provide or connect them with the range of services necessary to run a global business. We also provide 7 Table of Contents airfreight forwarding services as an indirect air carrier. Our international product offerings serve more than 1,000 clients internationally through 8 offices and approximately 100 agents worldwide. As a non-vessel operating common carrier (or indirect ocean carrier), we arrange transportation of our customers’ freight by contracting with the actual vessel operator to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed wholesale discounted volume rate. We then are able to charge our customers rates lower than the rates they could obtain from actual vessel operators for similar type shipments. We consolidate the freight bound for a particular destination from a common shipping point, prepare all required shipping documents, arrange for any inland transportation, deliver the freight to the vessel operator and arrange transportation to the final destination. At the destination port, acting directly or through our agent, we deliver the freight to the receivers of the goods, which may include customs clearance and inland freight transportation to the final destination. Our contracts with ocean carriers generally require us to pay a small liquidated damage amount for each committed container that we do not ship during the relevant contract period; the aggregate amount of such damages that we have been required to pay in the past has not been material, however, and management does not believe that such contract terms will have a material adverse effect in the future. As a customs broker, we are licensed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Service to act on behalf of importers in handling customs formalities and other details critical to the importation of goods. We prepare and file formal documentation required for clearance through customs agencies, obtain customs bonds, facilitate the payment of import duties on behalf of the importer, arrange for the payment of collect freight charges, assist with determining and obtaining the best commodity classifications for shipments and assist with qualifying for duty drawback refunds. We provide customs brokerage services to direct domestic importers in connection with many of the shipments that we handle as a non-vessel operating common carrier, as well as shipments arranged by other freight forwarders, non-vessel operating common carriers or vessel operating common carriers. Warehousing and Distribution Our warehousing and distribution unit, Pacer Distribution Services, Inc., primarily specializes in “import logistics,” or servicing the needs of importers looking to move their goods in a timely and efficient manner, either directly to a retailer or to an inland distribution point. To accomplish this objective and deliver superior service to our import customers, we operate multiple facilities in the Los Angeles area that occupy more than 800,000 square feet. All of these facilities are located within 18 miles of the Southern California ports, making possible a timely and efficient flow of ocean containers to and from our warehouses. To further boost the quality of service and expedite the delivery of ocean freight, we also manage our own trucking fleet of 150 owner-operators, many of whom service the Southern California ports on a daily basis. To help our customers reduce their import costs, we have extended the hours of operation of both our facilities and our harbor trucking fleet to take maximum advantage of the program implemented by the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to encourage the movement of cargo at night and on weekends to reduce truck traffic during peak daytime hours. Our warehousing and distribution unit performs multiple services specifically designed for importers, including: · warehousing/distribution – receiving inventory to stock in order to fulfill future outbound orders, · value-added services – labeling, price tagging, palletizing, pick/pack and reworking, · transloading – transferring freight from ocean containers to domestic equipment, rail or road, · deconsolidation – the sorting of freight for distribution to multiple outbound destinations, and · consolidation – the collecting of multiple smaller inbound shipments to build full truckloads. 8 Table of Contents Supply Chain Management We use the information from our advanced information system to provide consulting and supply chain management services to our customers. These specialized services allow our customers to realize cost savings and concentrate on their core competencies by outsourcing to us the management and transportation of their materials and inventory throughout their supply chains and the distribution of finished goods to the end user. We provide infrastructure and equipment, integrated with our customers’ existing systems, to handle distribution planning, just-in-time delivery and automated ordering. We also manage warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities for selected customers and consult on identifying bottlenecks in our customers’ supply chains by analyzing freight patterns and costs, optimizing facility locations and developing internal policies and procedures. We leverage these capabilities to drive additional volume to our other service offerings. Information Technology Our information technology systems have an expandable network architecture that provides for the exchange of data electronically between our customers and us and an internet-based platform that allows customization and integration to meet our customers’ needs. This interconnection allows us to communicate directly with our customers and transportation providers. Our systems monitor and track shipments through the transportation cycle and across varying transportation modes, providing timely visibility on shipment status, location and estimated delivery times. Our exception notification system informs us of any potential delays so we can alert our customers and other supply chain participants to minimize the impact of any problems. Our systems also measure transit times, rates, availability and logistics activity of our transportation providers to enable us to plan and execute transactions and freight movements more reliably, efficiently and cost effectively. By monitoring and tracking all containers, chassis and railcars throughout our network, we can identify their location and availability and provide increased equipment utilization and balanced freight flows. Our systems also have the capability to analyze our customers’ usage patterns and needs in an effort to resolve performance bottlenecks, determine optimal distribution locations and identify areas for cost savings throughout their supply chains. We can also prepare and distribute customized reports detailing shipping patterns, volumes, reliability, timeliness and overall transportation costs, and we can generate management reports to meet federal highway authority requirements and perform accounting and billing functions. Currently, our technological efforts are primarily focused on reducing customer service response time, enhancing the customer service profile database and expanding the number of customers and service providers with which we share data using electronic data interchange applications. We manage our wholesale services with computer systems that enable continuous tracking of cargo containers, chassis and railcars throughout the intermodal system. These systems also provide us with performance, utilization and profitability indicators for our wholesale business. In addition, pursuant to a long-term information technology services agreement under which we pay an annual fee of $11.3 million (of which $3.4 million has been subject to a 3% compounded annual increase since May 2003), APL Limited provides us with the computers, software and other information technology necessary for the operation of and accounting for our wholesale Stacktrain business. This agreement with APL Limited has a term expiring in May 2019. In March 2001, we began efforts to convert from APL Limited’s computer systems to a stand-alone capability based on information technology systems available from an unrelated third party developer under a fixed-price development contract. As a result of the developer’s breach of contract, we instituted arbitration during the fourth quarter of 2002 seeking damages for the developer’s failure to complete the contract and other claims. In June 2005, we wrote-off all $11.3 million of previously capitalized software development costs related to this project. For further discussion of the project, please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 9 Table of Contents Customers We currently provide retail services on a nationwide basis to retailers, manufacturers, and other companies, including a number of Fortune 500 and multi-national companies such as Big Lots, C.H. Robinson, General Electric, Sony, Union Pacific Railroad, Toyota and Whirlpool, which together represented approximately 20% of our 2005 revenues, as well as numerous middle market companies. Other important customers include The Scotts Company, Shaw Industries, Owens Corning, and Sysco. We have served many of our customers for over 15 years. Our sales and customer service organizations, supported by our centralized pricing and logistics management systems, market our wholesale services primarily to intermodal marketing companies. We also market our wholesale services to the automotive industry and ocean carriers. Through our sales network, and the sales networks of the intermodal marketing companies to which we sell wholesale services, we provide transportation services to more than 5,000 domestic and international shippers. For the fiscal years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003, there was no single customer that contributed more than 10% of our total revenues. Sales and Marketing As of December 30, 2005, our wholesale services were marketed by over 50 sales and customer service representatives. These representatives operate through seven regional and district sales offices and three regional customer service centers that are situated in the major shipping locations across North America. The sales representatives are directly responsible for managing the business relationships with our channel partners such as intermodal marketing companies, logistics companies and steamship lines, as well as supporting joint selling efforts directed at the beneficial owner of the freight. In effect, our relationship with an intermodal marketing company’s sales force enables us to market our wholesale services and directly and indirectly access shippers in major metropolitan areas throughout North America. The customer service representatives are responsible for supporting existing customers and sales representatives by providing cargo tracking services, resolving problems and processing customer inquiries. Our wholesale efforts include a dedicated marketing function that drives our product development, strategic and tactical pricing, yield improvement, branding efforts and marketing communications. As of December 30, 2005, our retail marketing and sales operations included over 100 direct sales people and agents. All of our sales people are supported by regional sales offices and sales managers located in Livermore (California), Chicago (Illinois), Dublin (Ohio), Memphis (Tennessee), Dallas (Texas) and Rutherford (New Jersey). Our direct sales representatives are deployed in major business centers throughout the country and target mid-size to large customers. In early 2006, we further segmented this sales organization into National Account and Regional Account teams. Our national network of commissioned sales agents provides additional geographic coverage and contributes additional business enabling us to achieve volume discounts and balance traffic flows. Compensation for both our salaried and commissioned sales forces is driven by overall net revenue margin contribution to our company. Our direct sales force, in particular, is trained and encouraged to sell the entire Pacer product portfolio to their customers. Each line of business has product specialists to support the general line sales force on specific cross-selling opportunities. In addition to our domestic sales force, we also have an extensive international network of sales and customer service representatives located in 8 offices and approximately 100 agents worldwide. Development of Our Company We commenced operations as an independent, stand-alone company upon our recapitalization in May 1999. From 1984 until our recapitalization, our wholesale business was conducted by various entities owned directly or indirectly by APL Limited. 10 Table of Contents In May 1999, we were recapitalized through the purchase of shares of our common stock from APL Limited by two affiliates of Apollo Management, and an affiliate of each of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and our redemption of a portion of the remaining shares of common stock held by APL Limited. On the date of the recapitalization, we also began providing retail and logistics services to customers through our acquisition of Pacer Logistics. In connection with these transactions, our name was changed from APL Land Transport Services, Inc. to Pacer International, Inc. Pacer Logistics, Inc. was originally incorporated on March 5, 1997 under the name PMT Holdings, Inc., and acquired the successor to a company formed in 1974. Between the time of its formation and our acquisition of Pacer Logistics in May 1999, Pacer Logistics acquired and integrated six logistics services companies. In 2000, we acquired four companies in the retail segment that have complemented our core retail business operations and expanded our geographic reach and service offerings for intermodal marketing, truck brokerage, international freight forwarding and other logistics services. In 2001, we integrated our core retail business operations into our Pacer Global Logistics, Inc., subsidiary. In June 2002, we completed our initial public offering of common stock, and used the net proceeds to repay a significant amount of our outstanding long-term debt. During June and July 2003, we completed the refinancing of our credit facilities, including the early redemption of $150 million of 11.75% senior subordinated notes originally issued in connection with our May 1999 recapitalization. In August 2003, we completed an underwritten secondary public offering of common stock on behalf of a number of selling stockholders; no new shares were issued and we received no proceeds from this offering. In November 2003 and April 2005, we completed repricings of our credit facility, and in September 2005, we completed an amendment to our credit facility allowing for, among other things, an increase in the cash dividends that can be paid. On January 7, 2004, we filed with the SEC a “shelf” registration statement, providing for the issuance by the Company of up to $150 million in additional common stock, preferred stock and warrants to purchase any of such securities and for the sale by a number of selling stockholders of 8,702,893 shares of common stock. The registration statement was declared effective on January 21, 2004. There are currently no arrangements in place for the Company to issue any additional securities. On April 8, 2004, and November 10, 2004, we filed with the SEC supplements to the prospectus included in the shelf registration statement discussed in the preceding paragraph for the sale by the selling stockholders named in the shelf registration statement of all 8,702,893 shares of our common stock in underwritten public offerings. The April 8, 2004 offering was for 4,000,000 shares at $20.07 per share, and the November 10, 2004 offering was for 4,702,893 shares at $17.67 per share, in each case net to the selling shareholders. No new shares were issued and we received no proceeds in either offering. Including the January 7, 2004 registration statement, we paid $0.5 million of fees and expenses related to these offerings and charged these costs to the selling, general and administrative expense line item on the consolidated statement of operations. Upon completion of the November 2004 offering, Apollo Management and its affiliates no longer owned any shares of our common stock. Suppliers Railroads We have long-term contracts with our primary rail carriers, Union Pacific, CSX, and KCSM in Mexico (formerly the TFM), and from time to time we maintain other operating arrangements with the other North American railroads, including Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad and Canadian National Railroad. These contracts generally provide for access to terminals controlled by the railroads as well as support services related to our wholesale Stacktrain operations. Through these contracts, our wholesale business has established an extensive North American rail transportation network. Our retail business also maintains contracts with the railroads that govern the transportation services and payment terms pursuant to which the railroads handle intermodal shipments. These contracts are typically of short duration, usually 11 Table of Contents twelve-month terms, and subject to regular renewal or extension. We maintain close working relationships with all of the major railroads in the United States and will continue to focus our efforts on strengthening these relationships. The rail contracts with Union Pacific and CSX represent the substantial majority of our wholesale Stacktrain unit’s cost of purchased transportation, while business with other railroads, including the Burlington Northern Santa Fe, Canadian National Railroad and KCSM, represented approximately 6% of our wholesale segment’s cost of purchased transportation in 2005. Through our contracts with these rail carriers, we have access to a 50,000 mile rail network throughout North America. Our rail contracts generally provide that the rail carriers will perform point-to-point linehaul transportation and terminal services for us. Pursuant to the service provisions, the rail carriers provide transportation of our intermodal equipment across their rail networks and terminal services related to loading and unloading of containers, equipment movement and general administration. Our rail contracts generally establish per container rates for Stacktrain shipments made on the rail carriers’ transportation networks and typically provide that we are obligated to transport a specified percentage of our total Stacktrain shipments with each of the rail carriers (subject to the rail carrier’s achievement of certain service performance standards). The terms of our rail contracts, including rates, are generally subject to adjustment or renegotiation throughout the term of the contract, based on factors such as the continuing fairness of the contract terms, prevailing market conditions and changes in the rail carriers’ costs to provide rail service. Based upon these provisions, and the volume of freight that we ship with each of the rail carriers, we believe that we enjoy competitive transportation rates for our Stacktrain shipments. Agents and Independent Contractors In our long haul and local trucking services operations, we rely on the services of independent agents, who procure business for and manage a group of trucking contractors. Although we own a small number of tractors and trailers, the majority of our truck equipment and drivers are provided by agents and independent contractors. Our relationships with agents and independent contractors allow us to provide customers with a broad range of trucking services without the need to commit capital to acquire and maintain a large trucking fleet. Although our agreements with independent agents and trucking contractors are typically long-term in practice, they are generally terminable by either party on short notice. Independent agents and trucking contractors are compensated on the basis of mileage rates, fixed fees between particular origins and destinations, fixed fees within certain distance-based zones or a fixed percentage of the revenue generated from the shipments that they arrange or haul. Under the terms of our typical lease contracts, independent agents and trucking contractors must pay all of the expenses of operating their equipment, including driver wages and benefits, fuel, physical damage insurance, maintenance and debt service. Local Trucking Companies To support our rail brokerage operations, we have established a good working relationship with a large network of local truckers in many major urban centers throughout the United States. The quality of these relationships helps ensure reliable pickups and deliveries, which is a major differentiating factor among intermodal marketing companies. Our strategy has been to concentrate business with a select group of local truckers in a particular urban area, which increases our economic value to the local truckers and in turn raises the quality of service that we receive from them. Equipment Our wholesale equipment fleet consists of a large number of double stack railcars, containers and chassis that are owned or subject to short and long-term leases. We lease almost all of our containers, approximately 80% of our chassis and approximately 90% of our doublestack railcars. In addition, all of our railcar equipment is associated with revenue generating arrangements. Our railcar fleet consists of “free running” railcars operating under the publicly reported “BRAN” mark. These railcars are in general service with railroads throughout North America to haul not only our own intermodal 12 Table of Contents containers but also those of the railroads and their other customers. Under this system, our railcars are freely interchanged from one rail carrier to another throughout the North American rail system. To use our railcars, the rail carrier pays us a fee, known as the car hire rate, which takes into account the miles traveled by a railcar and the railcar’s time in service with a railroad. The actual rate payable is determined under our bilateral rate agreement with the railroad, or in the case of a railroad with which we have no rate agreement, under our schedule of car hire rates maintained in the Car Hire Accounting Rate Master (CHARM) administered by Railinc in association with the Association of American Railroads. We are solely responsible for the costs of operating our railcars, and do not have any recourse to our customers for the lease or purchase of our railcars. As of December 30, 2005, our wholesale Stacktrain equipment fleet consisted of the following: Owned Leased Total Containers 48’ Containers 18 7,541 7,559 53’ Containers 4 20,668 20,672 Total 22 28,209 28,231 Chassis 20’and 40’ Chassis - 1,013 1,013 48’ Chassis 5,375 4,057 9,432 53’ Chassis 100 18,152 18,252 Total 5,475 23,222 28,697 Doublestack Railcars 204 1,654 1,858 During 2005, we received 4,422 primarily 53-ft. leased containers and 3,926 primarily 53-ft. leased chassis, and we returned 2,106 primarily 48-ft leased containers and 1,106 primarily 48-ft. leased chassis. During 2005, four railcars were destroyed. During 2004, we received 4,321 primarily 53-ft. leased containers and 3,853 primarily 53-ft. leased chassis, and we returned 1,917 primarily 48-ft leased containers and 2,248 primarily 48-ft. leased chassis. During 2004, three railcars were destroyed. During 2003, we received 3,530 primarily 53-ft. leased containers and 2,604 primarily 53-ft. leased chassis, and we returned 1,693 primarily 48-ft leased containers and 1,530 primarily 48-ft. leased chassis. During 2003, five railcars were destroyed. We also own a limited amount of equipment to support our trucking operations. The majority of our trucking operations are conducted through contracts with independent trucking companies and contractors that own and operate their own equipment. Risk Management and Insurance In our rail and truck brokerage operations, we typically require all motor carriers to which we tender freight to carry at least $1,000,000 in truckers commercial automobile liability insurance and $100,000 in cargo insurance. Many carriers provide insurance exceeding these minimums. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per shipment. We maintain an all-risk form of cargo insurance to protect us against cargo damage claims that may not be recoverable from the responsible carriers or their insurers. In our operations as an authorized carrier or warehouseman, we maintain legal liability insurance to protect us against catastrophic claims arising from damage or loss to freight in transit or warehouse storage. We also maintain legal liability insurance to protect us against damage to our railcars and intermodal equipment. 13 Table of Contents Our terms of carriage on international and ocean shipments limit our liability consistent with industry standards. We offer our freight forwarding customers the option to purchase cargo insurance for their shipments. We also purchase insurance policies for commercial automobile liability, truckers commercial automobile liability, commercial general liability, employers liability, and umbrella and excess umbrella liability, with a total insurance limit of $50 million. Our historical self-retained (deductible) levels may vary based on claim frequency, severity and timing factors. Our current deductible level per occurrence for commercial automobile liability is $25,000. Our current deductible level per occurrence for truckers commercial automobile liability is $1,000,000. Our current deductible level per occurrence for commercial general liability is $1,000,000. Our current workers compensation and employers liability deductible is $150,000 per incident. Our current deductible per occurrence for freight damage as an authorized carrier or warehouseman is $250,000. Relationship with APL Limited We are a party to a long-term agreement with APL Limited involving domestic transportation of APL Limited’s international freight by our wholesale Stacktrain operation. The majority of APL Limited’s imports to the United States are transported by rail from ports on the West Coast to population centers in the Midwest and Northeast regions. Domestic intermodal freight that originates in the United States, however, moves predominantly westbound from eastern and Midwestern production centers to consumption centers on the West Coast. Combining the typical westbound freight movement with the predominantly eastbound APL Limited freight movement allows us to achieve higher train-set utilization (loads per train) and higher eastbound/westbound volumes, thereby improving our bargaining position with the railroads regarding contract terms. We also provide APL Limited with equipment repositioning services through which we transport APL Limited’s empty containers from destinations within North America to their West Coast points of origin. To the extent we are able to fill these empty containers with the westbound freight of other wholesale customers, we receive compensation from both APL Limited for our repositioning service on a cost reimbursement basis and from the other customers for the shipment of their freight. APL Limited also supplies us with computer software and other information technology services for our wholesale Stacktrain business. See “Information Technology,” above. Business Cycle The transportation industry has historically performed cyclically as a result of economic recession, customers’ business cycles, increases in prices charged by third-party carriers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. Because we offer a variety of transportation modes and, we believe, an economical intermodal product, we generally retain shipping volumes and benefit from increased use of our Stacktrain services at the expense of long-haul trucking competitors during down business cycles. In periods of strong economic growth, demand for limited transportation resources, as has occurred over the past 18 months, can result in increased rail network congestion and resulting operating inefficiencies. Although rail service deterioration increases our costs and may slow demand, we believe that our personnel on-site at many terminals, extensive equipment fleet and customer service capabilities enable us to provide comparatively better service than others affected by rail service deterioration and thereby to retain shipping volumes. We also participate during periods of business expansion when speed of service to fill inventories increases in importance. Competition The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our wholesale business competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers-on-flatcars and containerized intermodal rail services offered directly by railroads. Our retail business competes primarily against other domestic non-asset-based transportation and logistics companies, asset-based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, freight 14 Table of Contents forwarders and private shipping departments. We also compete with transportation services companies for the services of independent commissioned agents, and with trucklines for the services of independent contractors and drivers. Competition in our wholesale and retail business is based primarily on freight rates, quality of service, such as damage-free shipments, on-time delivery and consistent transit times, reliable pickup and delivery and scope of operations. In the wholesale business, our major competitors include Burlington Northern Santa Fe, Union Pacific, CSX Intermodal and J.B. Hunt Transport. Our major competitors in the retail business include C.H. Robinson, Expeditors International, UTI Worldwide, Exel, Hub Group, Alliance Shippers, and the supply chain solutions divisions of Ryder and Menlo Logistics. Some of these competitors, such as C.H. Robinson, Expeditors International, Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific, have significantly larger operations and revenues than we have. Employees As of December 30, 2005, we had a total of 1,675 employees. None of our employees are represented by unions, and we generally consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. Government Regulation Regulation of Our Trucking and Intermodal Operations The transportation industry has been subject to legislative and regulatory changes that have affected the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and cost of, providing transportation services. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business or consolidated results of operations. Our retail truck brokerage operations are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) as a national freight broker in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in our capacity as a national freight broker, including surety bonding requirements. Our truck services and local cartage operations provide motor carrier transportation services that require registration with the DOT and compliance with economic regulations administered by the DOT, including a requirement to maintain insurance coverage in minimum prescribed amounts. Other sourcing and distribution activities may be subject to various federal and state food and drug statutes and regulations. Although Congress enacted legislation in 1994 that substantially preempts the authority of states to exercise economic regulation of motor carriers and brokers of freight, we continue to be subject to a variety of state vehicle registration and licensing requirements. We and the carriers upon which we rely are also subject to various federal and state safety and environmental regulations. Although compliance with regulations governing licenses in these areas has not had a materially adverse effect on our consolidated operations or financial condition in the past, there can be no assurance that these regulations or changes in these regulations will not adversely affect our operations in the future. Violations of these regulations could also subject us to fines or, in the event of serious violations, suspension or revocation of operating authority as well as increased claims liability. Intermodal operations like ours were exempted from virtually all active regulatory supervision by the U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission, predecessor to the regulatory responsibilities now held by the U.S. Surface Transportation Board. Such exemption is revocable by the Surface Transportation Board, but the standards for revocation of regulatory exemptions issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission or Surface Transportation Board are high. Regulation of Our International Freight Forwarding Operations We maintain licenses issued by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission as an ocean transportation intermediary. These licenses govern both our operations as an ocean freight forwarder and as a non-vessel operating common carrier. The Federal Maritime Commission has established qualifications for ocean transportation intermediaries, including surety bond requirements. The Federal Maritime Commission also is responsible for the regulation and oversight of non-vessel operating common carriers that contract for space with vessel operating carriers and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating and/or terminating in the United States. Non-vessel 15 Table of Contents operating common carriers are required to publish and maintain tariffs that establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United States. The Federal Maritime Commission has the power to enforce these regulations by commencing enforcement proceedings seeking the assessment of penalties for violation of these regulations. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the United States, the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than in the United States. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations and licensing requirements in all countries in which we transact business. We are also licensed as a customs broker by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Service of the Department of Treasury in each United States customs district in which we do business. All United States customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which we perform customs brokerage services, we are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these requirements. Legal Contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our consolidated statements of operations. These estimates have been based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business, and we expect such disputes to continue to arise from time to time in the future. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Note 7. – Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements. Based on currently available information and advice of counsel, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and that none of these items will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or liquidity. Our present assessment of these claims could change, however, based on new information and future events. In addition, even if successful, our defense against certain actions could be costly and could divert the time and resources of our management and staff. Environmental Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental, hazardous materials transportation and occupational health and safety requirements, including those relating to the handling, labeling, shipping and transportation of hazardous materials, discharges of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. In particular, a number of our facilities have underground and above-ground storage tanks for diesel fuel and other petroleum products. These facilities are subject to requirements regarding the storage of such products and the clean-up of any leaks or spills. We could also have liability as a responsible party for costs to clean-up contamination at off-site locations where we have sent, or arranged for the transport of, wastes. We have not received any notices that we are potentially responsible for material clean-up costs at any off-site waste disposal location. We do not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations or financial condition as a result of our efforts to comply with environmental requirements, nor do we believe that we have any material environmental liabilities. We also do not expect to incur material capital expenditures for environmental controls in 2006. However, future changes in environmental regulations or liabilities from newly discovered environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. Seasonality Our revenues generally show a seasonal pattern as some customers reduce shipments during and after the winter holiday season. In addition, the auto companies that we serve generally shut down their assembly plants for new model re-tooling during the summer months. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, capacity or services, we could lose customers and revenues. We are dependent upon transportation equipment such as chassis and containers and rail, truck and ocean transportation services provided by independent third parties. We, along with competitors in our industry, have experienced equipment and capacity shortages in the past, particularly during peak shipping season in October and November. We also depend upon the rail carriers to provide sufficient rail slots on the train to transport our containers and access to the rail terminal for the delivery of our containers for shipment. For example, during 2005, Union Pacific instituted a gate reservation process from many west coast terminals to help match intermodal resources with customer demand. From time to time, we, like other users of Union Pacific’s rail service, have not been able to obtain sufficient gate reservations for all containers to be shipped on a particular day and have had to wait for the gate reservation necessary to allow the container to enter the rail terminal and to be loaded on the train. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs and schedules, customers may seek to have their transportation and logistics needs met by other third parties on a temporary or permanent basis, and as a result, our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trucking industry, including the local drayage community, is facing an ongoing shortage of drivers. This shortage may cause our motor transportation suppliers to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our cost of providing motor transportation, including the local cartage portion of an intermodal move, to our customers. Accordingly, driver shortages could adversely impact our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal and highway service offerings. In addition, the trucking industry, including the local drayage community, is facing an ongoing shortage of drivers. This shortage may cause our motor transportation suppliers to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our cost of providing motor transportation, including the local cartage portion of an intermodal move, to our customers. Likewise, the intermodal industry is facing excess demand for the current rail network size that is causing network congestion and service delays and allowing the rail carriers to implement rate increases. Accordingly, driver shortages and tight rail capacity could adversely impact our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal and highway service offerings. Service instability in the intermodal industry could increase costs and decrease demand for our intermodal services. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for substantially all of the intermodal transportation services that we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any reduction in service by the railroads with which we have relationships is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services that we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness and overall attractiveness of our rail-based services. For example, from 1997 to 1999, service disruptions related to consolidation and restructuring in the railroad industry interrupted intermodal service throughout the United States. During the past 2 years, high demand for rail transportation, train resource shortages, severe weather and operating inefficiencies have resulted in increased transit times, terminal congestion and decreased equipment velocity. Rail carrier efforts over the past two years to improve rail service do not seem to be generating the expected improvements. While we believe that our customer service capabilities, extensive equipment fleet and network of personnel on-site at many terminals enables us to lessen the impact to our intermodal customers of these service disruptions, rail service issues increase our costs and create a challenging operating environment. To the extent that we operate on rail carriers that experience poor service performance, demand for our intermodal services may be adversely affected. In addition, customers may switch to over-the-road carriers to avoid intermodal transportation delays. Although we have not been adversely affected by past service disruptions resulting from rail industry consolidation and rail network congestion, we could be substantially affected by service disruptions in the future. 17 Table of Contents Changes in freight rates, as a result of competition in our industry and pricing strategies of our transportation suppliers, could adversely affect our business. The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our retail businesses compete primarily against other domestic non-asset based transportation and logistics companies, asset-based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, shipping departments of our customers and other freight forwarders. Our wholesale business competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers on flat cars, and containerized intermodal rail services offered directly by railroads. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow them to withstand better an economic downturn, reduce their prices more easily than we can or expand or enhance the marketing of their products. There are a number of large companies competing in one or more segments of our industry, although the number of companies with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers are increasingly soliciting competitive bids for transportation services from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than we are. We also face competition from Internet-based freight exchanges, or electronic bid environments, which attempt to provide an online marketplace for buying and selling supply chain services. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. In the past, we have experienced downward pressure in the pricing of our wholesale and retail services that has affected our revenues and operating results. In particular, our wholesale segment has offered lower rates to its customers to match lower rates offered by our railroad competitors in the intermodal business. Such rate reductions could adversely affect the yields of our intermodal product. Rate increases, particularly when taken by our railroad and highway transportation suppliers, may also have an adverse impact if our brokerage operations are unable to obtain commensurate price increases from our customers. For example, during 2005, due to increased demand, all the major rail carriers instituted price increases. Although the application of rate increases to a portion of our wholesale Stacktrain business is limited by our long-term contracts with the railroads, such increases have resulted in higher costs to some of our wholesale Stacktrain business and to our retail rail brokerage operation that we have not been able to fully pass on as quickly as the increases are implemented by the rail carriers. While our wholesale Stacktrain operation may benefit from the intermodal rate increases, such rate increases may have the impact of slowing overall demand for intermodal services and thereby affecting our consolidated results of operations. Congestion, work stoppages, capacity shortages, weather related issues or other disruptions affecting the transportation network could adversely affect our operating results. As transportation services are provided through a network of rail and trucking transportation providers, a disruption in one area or in one sector can affect the fluidity of the entire network. In addition, because the railroads’ workforce is generally subject to collective bargaining agreements, our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees; as of February 2006 negotiations are in progress between the railroads and rail unions for new collective bargaining agreements to replace the existing contracts which expire at various times over the next two years. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage at one or more railroads or affecting providers of local trucking services from rail terminals. For example, during late April and early May 2004, independent owner-operators providing local drayage services in Lathrop, Oakland and other Northern California areas refused to transport shipments to and from the rail facilities. This led to congestion at the rail facilities, which caused the Union Pacific Railroad to issue an embargo on shipments to Northern California destinations. Also on April 30, 2004, owner-operators in the Los Angeles area refused to haul shipments. Our local cartage operations in Northern California and Los Angeles were directly and adversely impacted by their owner-operators’ refusal to haul freight, and the cartage service interruption had also aggravated rail service issues in Northern California where a substantial number of Stacktrain shipments originate or terminate. Although the work stoppage was ended quickly and our relations with our owner-operators have stabilized, the work disruption did adversely affect our 18 Table of Contents consolidated results of operations in the second quarter of 2004. We have also experienced service disruptions due to other conditions, such as adverse weather and acts of terrorism or war, that hinder the railroads’ and local trucking companies’ ability to provide transportation services. During 2004 and 2005, hurricanes in Florida, Louisiana and Alabama and severe storms in Nevada and California resulted in the railroads’ embargoing shipments to geographic areas and rail lines affected by these weather events. These embargoes negatively impacted our consolidated results of operations during 2004 and 2005. Work stoppages affecting seaports may also adversely impact our operations. On September 29, 2002 (during our fiscal fourth quarter), West Coast ports were shut down as a result of a labor dispute with the longshoremen who offload freight that we subsequently transport. On October 9, 2002, the ports were reopened as a result of a court order implementing provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. Third party international loadings and repositioning revenue from our wholesale segment were adversely impacted during the shutdown of the ports. In addition, railcar utilization declined during the shutdown, impacting railcar revenues. The shutdown also impacted our local cartage and harbor drayage on the West Coast with lower volumes and our retail segment international freight forwarding operations were impacted due to reduced ship sailings. This service disruption ended in January 2003 when a new six-year contract was agreed to by the International Longshore and Warehouse Union and the Pacific Maritime Association. Work stoppages, slowdowns or other disruptions, such as those resulting from an act of terrorism or war in the future, are beyond our reasonable control and such events, particularly if they have a material effect on major railroad interchange facilities or areas through which significant amounts of our rail shipments pass, such as the Los Angeles and Chicago gateways, could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows in both our wholesale and retail segments. If we make future acquisitions, they may be financed in a way that reduces our reported earnings or imposes additional restrictions on our business. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue shares of capital stock that dilute other stockholders, incur debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses related to intangible assets, any of which might reduce our reported earnings or reduce earnings per share and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, any financing that we might need for future acquisitions may be available to us only on terms that restrict our business. If we are unable to identify, make and successfully integrate acquisitions, our profitability could be adversely affected. Identifying, acquiring and integrating businesses requires substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to customer service and market share. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. These risks include: · unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; · difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations and technologies; · the need to manage a significantly larger and more geographically dispersed business; · impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; · the cost of integrating and documenting the internal controls of the acquired business and potential material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · diversion of management’s attention from ongoing development of our business or other business concerns; · potential loss of customers; 19 Table of Contents · failure to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; and · the use of substantial amounts of our available cash. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past and we may consider acquiring businesses in the future that provide complementary services to those we currently provide or that expand our geographic presence. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire them on reasonable terms or at all, and a failure to do so could limit our ability to expand our business. While we believe that we have sufficient financial and management resources and experience to successfully conduct our acquisition activities and integrate the acquired businesses into our operations, our acquisition activities involve more difficult integration issues than those of many other companies because the value of the companies we acquire comes mostly from their business relationships, rather than their tangible assets. The integration of business relationships poses more of a risk than the integration of tangible assets because relationships may suddenly weaken or terminate, or key personnel responsible for those relationships may depart. Further, logistics businesses that we have acquired and that we may acquire in the future compete with many customers of our wholesale Stacktrain operations, and these customers may shift their business elsewhere if they believe our retail operations receive favorable treatment from our wholesale Stacktrain operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate any business that we may acquire in the future, we could experience difficulties with customers, personnel or others, and our acquisitions might not enhance our competitive position, business or financial prospects. Our revenues could be reduced by the loss of major customers. We have derived, and believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from our largest customers. In 2005, Union Pacific accounted for approximately 8.8% of our revenues and our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 41.2% of our revenues. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant change in their shipping patterns could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and prospects. For example, during 2005, we completed the transition of one of our truck brokerage customers to another service provider, reducing revenues by approximately $128 million in our retail segment. The impact of this loss on consolidated income from operations was significantly less, however, due to the low margins provided by this customer. If we have difficulty attracting and retaining agents and independent contractors, our results of consolidated operations could be adversely affected. We rely extensively on the services of agents and independent contractors to provide our trucking services. We rely on a fleet of vehicles which are owned and operated by independent trucking contractors and on agents representing groups of trucking contractors to transport customers’ goods by truck. Although we believe our relationships with our agents and independent contractors are good, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them. Contracts with agents and independent contractors are, in most cases, terminable upon short notice by either party. If an agent terminates its relationship with us, some customers and independent contractors with which such agent has a direct relationship may also terminate their relationship with us. We may have difficulty replacing our agents and independent contractors with equally qualified persons. We compete with transportation service companies and trucking companies for the services of agents and with trucking companies for the services of independent contractors and drivers. The pool of agents, contractors and drivers is limited, and therefore competition from other transportation service companies and trucking companies has the effect of increasing the price we must pay to obtain services from agents, contractors and drivers. The industry is currently experiencing a shortage of independent contractors resulting in increased compensation expenses to us and our competitors who also rely on them. In addition, because independent contractors are not employees, they may not be as loyal to our company, requiring us to pay more to retain their services and to implement aggressive recruitment efforts to offset turnover. If we are unable to attract or retain agents and independent contractors or need to increase the amount paid for their services, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected and we could experience difficulty increasing our business volume. This adverse effect was seen in 2005 as the cost of qualified driver acquisition and retention increased and negatively impacted our consolidated results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to develop, integrate, upgrade or replace our information technology systems, we may lose orders and customers or incur costs beyond our expectations. Increasingly, we compete for customers based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies that support our current services or any new services that we may introduce. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or our customers’ inability to access or interact with our website and other systems could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent our customers from placing orders, or cause us to lose orders or customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future freight volumes will decline. In addition, we expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain management service providers. If we fail to hire qualified personnel to implement and maintain our information technology systems or fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes, meet the demands of our customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose orders and customers that could adversely affect our business. Our customers who are also competitors could transfer their business to their non-competitors and our suppliers who are also competitors could provide preferences to others, including their own competing operations, which in both cases would decrease our profitability. As a result of our company operating in two distinct but related intermodal segments, we buy and sell transportation services from and to many companies with which we compete. For example, Hub Group, GST Corp and Alliance Shippers, three of the 10 largest customers of our wholesale operations, who accounted for 20% of the 2005 revenues of our wholesale operations, are also competitors of our retail operations. It is possible that these customers could transfer their business away from us to other companies with which they do not compete. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our wholesale operations. In addition, rather than outsourcing their transportation logistics requirements to us, some of our customers could decide to provide these services internally, which could further adversely affect our business volumes and revenues. Similarly, our wholesale Stacktrain business competes in some cases with the intermodal service offerings of our rail transportation providers and their affiliated equipment provider operations. For example, CSX Intermodal, one of our primary rail transportation providers, offers transcontinental and other services that compete with our wholesale Stacktrain services. Our rail transportation providers may provide preferences to their internal service offerings or to other customers that are not competitors. These preferences and the deterioration of relationships with our rail transportation providers could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our wholesale operations and on our ability to continue to provide efficient intermodal services to our customers. We, our suppliers and our customers are subject to changes in government regulation which could result in additional costs and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. The transportation industry is subject to legislative or regulatory changes that can affect its economics. Although we primarily operate in the intermodal segment of the transportation industry, which has been essentially deregulated, changes in the levels of regulatory activity in the intermodal segment could potentially affect us and our suppliers and customers. Our trucking operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage are subject to regulation by the DOT and various state and local agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and insurance requirements. As an example, on January 4, 2004, revised DOT hours of service regulations became effective. These revised regulations reduced the amount of time that drivers can spend driving. They may also affect our ability to make timely deliveries. In response to the new regulations, our trucking operations, among other responsive actions, began efforts to obtain reduced free times and higher accessorial charges from customers for driver waiting services. In July 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued a decision rejecting the revised hours of service rules based on concerns regarding driver health as well as other issues such as driving time, rest 21 Table of Contents periods and monitoring compliance. On September 30, 2004, Congress passed a law that allowed the new regulations to remain in effect until the DOT issued new regulations effective on October 1, 2005. The revised regulations effective October 1, 2005 did not contain any additional changes that are expected to materially affect our operations. Since the new regulations went into effect, we have endeavored to make appropriate pricing, operational and training adjustments to address the new regulations and mitigate their impact on our consolidated results of operations. While difficult to quantify, we believe that the new rules have negatively impacted our operating results due to the slight productivity decreases experienced by our drivers. If these changes increase the amounts charged by the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage to provide transportation for our customers, and we cannot pass the additional costs through to our customers, our consolidated operating results could continue to be adversely affected. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services or require the outlay of significant additional costs. For instance, regulations imposing heightened security measures on transportation providers beyond those imposed since 2001 could slow the movement of freight through U.S. and foreign ports, across borders or within North America and thus could adversely affect our business. Additional expenditures incurred by us, or by our suppliers, who would pass the costs onto us through higher prices, would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, we have a substantial number of wholesale customers who provide ocean carriage of intermodal shipments. These wholesale customers and our own international freight forwarding operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, U.S. Customs and other international, foreign, federal and state authorities. Regulatory changes in the ocean shipping or international freight forwarding industries could adversely affect our freight forwarding operations or have a material impact on the competitiveness or efficiency of operations of our various ocean carrier customers, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are also affected by new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC rules and regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules. Our efforts to comply with these evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations requiring that we present our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. During 2004, we paid our auditors and consultants approximately $4.1 million pre-tax ($0.07 per diluted share after tax) related to this initial effort. On-going costs of compliance in 2005 paid to our auditors and consultants was approximately $1.8 million pre-tax ($0.03 per diluted share after tax). In addition to the time and expense, these changing laws, regulations and standards impose other risks. For instance, while we have been able to determine in 2005 that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, may prevent us and our auditors from concluding in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Such a conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective could adversely impact our reputation with investors and our stock price. We are governed by the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles which are subject to interpretation and revision by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and others. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”. This statement, effective for us beginning in fiscal year 2006, requires public entities to measure the costs of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments (for our stock options) based on the fair value of the award. Beginning in January 2006, these costs will be recognized in the consolidated statement of operations over the period during which the employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. At the current level of stock option grants, this statement will require an estimated $0.5 million pre-tax charge to operations each quarter. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with or lose any required licenses, governmental regulators could assess penalties against us or issue a cease and desist order against our operations which are not in compliance. Our retail truck brokerage operation is licensed by the DOT as a broker in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. The DOT has established requirements for acting in this capacity, including insurance and surety bond requirements. Our truck services and local cartage operations are regulated as motor carriers by the DOT and various state agencies, subjecting these operations to insurance, surety bond, safety and other regulatory requirements. Our international freight forwarding operation is licensed as an ocean transportation intermediary by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission regulates ocean freight forwarders and non-vessel operating common carriers like us that contract for space with the actual vessel operator and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the United States. Non-vessel operating common carriers must publish and maintain tariffs for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United States. The Federal Maritime Commission may enforce these regulations by instituting proceedings seeking the assessment of penalties for violations of these regulations. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the United States, the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than in the United States. Our international freight forwarding operation is also licensed, regulated and subject to periodic audit as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of Treasury in each United States customs district in which we do business. In other jurisdictions in which we perform customs brokerage services, we are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations of any of these governmental regulators, and any resultant suspension or loss of our licenses, could result in penalties or a cease and desist order against any operations that are not in compliance. Such an occurrence would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 30, 2005, we have significantly reduced our long-term debt to $90.0 million. We have the ability to incur new debt, subject to limitations in our credit agreement. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: · Payments on our indebtedness will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; · A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could inhibit our ability to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; · We may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · Our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; · Our debt level reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; · Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; and · All of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations. 23 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions which may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, our credit agreement restricts our ability to: (1) redeem or repurchase capital stock; (2) prepay, redeem or purchase debt; (3) incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (4) make loans and investments; (5) incur additional indebtedness; (6) amend or otherwise change debt and other material agreements; (7) make capital expenditures; (8) engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; (9) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (10) change our primary business. Our credit facility also requires us to satisfy interest coverage and leverage ratios. A breach of any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt agreements could result in defaults under these agreements. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things: · Our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control; and · The future availability of borrowings under our credit facility or any successor facility, the availability of which may depend on, among other things, our complying with certain covenants. If our operating results and borrowings under our credit facility are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. There is no assurance that we can effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings. We are exposed to claims related to property damage, personal injury, cargo loss and damage and workers’ compensation. We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers. The cost of such insurance has risen significantly over the past five years, reflective of the insurance environment in our industry and our claim experience. To offset, in part, the significant cost increases we have experienced, we have elected to increase our self-retained (deductible) levels for our public liability risk exposures. Our current deductible per occurrence for commercial automobile liability is $25,000. Our current deductible level for truckers commercial automobile liability is $1,000,000. Our current deductible level per occurrence for commercial general liability is $1,000,000 per occurrence. Our current workers compensation and employers liability deductible is $150,000 per incident. Our current deductible per occurrence for freight damage as an authorized carrier or warehouseman is $250,000. We are also responsible for legal expenses within our deductible levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We currently reserve the estimated probable loss for incurred but not yet paid claim amounts and expenses, and regularly evaluate and adjust our claim reserves to reflect actual experience. If the ultimate results differ from our estimates, we could incur costs in excess of reserved amounts. To cover claims in excess of our deductible levels, we maintain insurance with insurance companies that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel and qualified technical staff, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be weakened. We believe that the attraction and retention of qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be weakened. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We face significant competition in the attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. Because our senior management team has unique experience with our company and within the transportation industry, it would be difficult to replace them without adversely affecting our business operations. In addition to their unique experience, our management team has fostered key relationships with our suppliers and customers. Such relationships are especially important in a non-asset based company such as ours. Loss of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We have an extensive relationship with our former parent, APL Limited, and we depend on APL Limited for essential services. Our business and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected if APL Limited failed or refused to provide such services or terminated the relationship. Pursuant to long-term contracts that expire in May 2019, APL Limited, the former owner of our wholesale Stacktrain services business, supplies us with chassis from its equipment fleet for the transport of international freight on behalf of other international shippers. In addition, we transport APL Limited’s international cargo on our Stacktrain network to locations in the United States using chassis and equipment supplied by APL Limited. The additional wholesale volume attributable to the transport of APL Limited’s international cargo contributes to our ability to obtain favorable provisions in our rail contracts. APL Limited pays us a fee for repositioning its empty containers within North America so that the containers can be reused in trans-Pacific shipping operations. In addition, APL Limited is currently providing us with computers, software and other information technology services necessary for the operation of our wholesale Stacktrain business pursuant to a long-term contract that expires in May 2019. If any of our contracts with APL Limited were terminated or if APL Limited were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these contracts, our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As we expand our services internationally, we may become subject to international economic and political risks. A portion of our business is providing services internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues in 2005 compared to 10% in 2004 and 9% in 2003. Doing business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Significant expansion of our services in foreign countries will expose us to the increased effect of foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these changes. Our operating results are subject to cyclical fluctuations and our quarterly revenues may also fluctuate, potentially affecting our stock price. Historically, sectors of the transportation industry have been cyclical as a result of economic recession, customers’ business cycles, increases in prices charged by third-party carriers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors such as changes in fuel costs over which we have no control. Increased operating expenses incurred by third-party carriers can be expected to result in higher costs to us, and our net revenues and income from operations could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of increased transportation costs. We have a large number of customers in the automotive and consumer goods industries. If these customers experience cyclical 25 Table of Contents movements in their business activity, due to an economic downturn, work stoppages or other factors over which we have no control, the volume of freight shipped by those customers may decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Any unexpected reduction in revenues for a particular quarter could cause our quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or stockholders. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall significantly. A determination by regulators that our independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs. From time to time, tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors. In the future these authorities could be successful in asserting this position, or the interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors could change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, worker’s compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. Our business model assumes that our independent contractors are not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above increased costs would impair our competitiveness in the industry. If the markets in which we operate do not grow, our business could be adversely affected. The failure of the transportation and logistics industries and their segments, including the third-party logistics market, to continue to grow may have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because we have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable could be prevented. Provisions of our charter and bylaws or Tennessee law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: · Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to thwart a takeover attempt; · A classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the Board of Directors; · Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · Requiring super-majority voting to effect particular amendments to our restated charter and amended bylaws; · Limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; · Requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders unless the stockholders unanimously agree to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and · Prohibiting business combinations with interested stockholders unless particular conditions are met. 26 Table of Contents As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the Tennessee Greenmail Act and the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Should we not be able to declare and pay cash dividends as anticipated, our stock price could be negatively impacted. During 2005, we completed an amendment to our credit agreement that increases the maximum aggregate cash dividends payable by us. During the third quarter of 2005 we declared and paid our first quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we declared our second quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share and paid the dividend in January 2006. During the first quarter of 2006, we declared our third quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share payable in April 2006. The declaration of future dividends by the Company and the amount thereof is in the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, compliance with financial ratios and other limitations in our credit agreement, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay dividends at all or at this level in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 