Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Significant Indebtedness of Us and Our Subsidiaries We and our subsidiaries have a significant amount of existing debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business. We and our subsidiaries have a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2006, our total debt was approximately $19.1 billion, our shareholders' deficit was approximately $6.2 billion and the deficiency of earnings to cover fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $413 million aggregate principal amount of Charter's convertible notes was outstanding; which matures in 2009. We will need to raise additional capital and/or receive distributions or payments from our subsidiaries in order to satisfy this debt obligation. An additional $450 million aggregate principal amount of Charter’s convertible notes was held by CCHC. Because of our significant indebtedness, our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all, is uncertain, and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or payments to their parent companies is subject to availability of funds and restrictions under our subsidiaries' applicable debt instruments and under applicable law. If we need to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or find it necessary to engage in a recapitalization or other similar transaction, our shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and in the case of a recapitalization or other similar transaction, our noteholders might not receive principal and interest payments to which they are contractually entitled. 21 Our significant amount of debt could have other important consequences. For example, the debt will or could: · require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; · make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because approximately 22% of our borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest; · expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt with higher cost debt; · adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our notes and for our subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations to their lenders under their credit facilities and to their noteholders; and · limit future increases in the value, or cause a decline in the value of our equity, which could limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing equity. A default by one of our subsidiaries under its debt obligations could result in the acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities and the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interest in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Any default under those credit facilities or the indentures governing our convertible notes or our subsidiaries’ debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our ability to make payments on our convertible notes, Charter Operating’s credit facilities, and other debt of our subsidiaries, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional debt in the future. If current debt levels increase, the related risks that we now face will intensify. The agreements and instruments governing our debt and the debt of our subsidiaries contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity. The Charter Operating credit facilities and the indentures governing our and our subsidiaries' debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. These covenants will restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to: · incur additional debt; · repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt; · issue equity; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · pay dividends or make other distributions; · dispose of assets or merge; · enter into related party transactions; and · grant liens and pledge assets. The breach of any covenants or obligations in the foregoing indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities and the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Any default under those credit facilities or the indentures governing our convertible notes or our subsidiaries' debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our convertible notes, Charter Operating's credit facilities, and other debt of our subsidiaries, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. 22 Charter Operating may not be able to access funds under its credit facilities if it fails to satisfy the covenant restrictions in its credit facilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business. Our subsidiaries have historically relied on access to credit facilities in order to fund operations and to service parent company debt, and we expect such reliance to continue in the future. Our total potential borrowing availability under the Charter Operating credit facilities was approximately $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2006, although the actual availability at that time was only $1.1 billion because of limits imposed by covenant restrictions. There can be no assurance that actual availability under our credit facilities will not be limited by covenant restrictions in the future. One of the conditions to the availability of funding under Charter Operating's credit facilities is the absence of a default under such facilities, including as a result of any failure to comply with the covenants under the facilities. Among other covenants, the facilities require Charter Operating to maintain specific financial ratios. The facilities also provide that Charter Operating has to obtain an unqualified audit opinion from its independent accountants for each fiscal year. There can be no assurance that Charter Operating will be able to continue to comply with these or any other of the covenants under the credit facilities. An event of default under the credit facilities or indentures, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of those debt obligations and, consequently, could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities and the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interest in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Any default under those credit facilities or the indentures governing our convertible notes or our subsidiaries’ debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our ability to make payments on our convertible notes, Charter Operating’s credit facilities, and other debt of our subsidiaries, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, which could materially adversely impact our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. We depend on generating sufficient cash flow and having access to additional external liquidity sources to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on both our ability to generate cash flow and our access to additional external liquidity sources. Our ability to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: · competition from other video programming distributors, including incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband providers and DSL providers; · unforeseen difficulties we may encounter in our continued introduction of our telephone services such as our ability to meet heightened customer expectations for the reliability of voice services compared to other services we provide, and our ability to meet heightened demand for installations and customer service; · our ability to sustain and grow revenues by offering video, high-speed Internet, telephone and other services, and to maintain and grow a stable customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition from other service providers; · our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to pass programming cost increases on to our customers; · general business conditions, economic uncertainty or slowdown; and · the effects of governmental regulation, including but not limited to local franchise authorities, on our business. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or access additional external liquidity sources, we may not be able to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. Although we and our subsidiaries have been able to raise funds through issuances of debt in the past, we may not be able to access additional sources of external liquidity on similar terms, if at all. We expect that cash on hand, cash flows from operating activities, and the amounts available under our credit facilities will be adequate to meet our cash needs through 2007. We believe that cash flows from operating activities and amounts available under our credit facilities may not be sufficient to fund our operations and satisfy our interest and principal repayment obligations in 2008 and will not be sufficient to fund 23 such needs in 2009 and beyond. See “Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Because of our holding company structure, our outstanding notes are structurally subordinated in right of payment to all liabilities of our subsidiaries. Restrictions in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us or our various debt issuers. Our sole assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to us for payments on our notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise. Our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us or the applicable debt issuers to service debt obligations is subject to their compliance with the terms of their credit facilities and indentures, and restrictions under applicable law. See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Limitations on Distributions” and “— Debt Covenants.” Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, our subsidiaries may only make distributions if they have “surplus” as defined in the act. Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if they are insolvent or are rendered insolvent thereby. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: · the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets; · the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or · it could not pay its debts as they became due. While we believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, there can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will be permitted to make distributions in the future in compliance with these restrictions in amounts needed to service our indebtedness. Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating credit facilities. Several of our subsidiaries are also obligors and guarantors under other senior high yield notes. Our convertible notes are structurally subordinated in right of payment to all of the debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2006, our total debt was approximately $19.1 billion, of which approximately $18.7 billion was structurally senior to our convertible notes. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event: · the lenders under Charter Operating's credit facilities, whose interests are secured by substantially all of our operating assets, will have the right to be paid in full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets; and · the holders of preferred membership interests in our subsidiary, CC VIII, would have a claim on a portion of its assets that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of our outstanding notes. All of our and our subsidiaries' outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control, which would place us in default under the applicable debt instruments. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our and our subsidiaries' notes and credit facilities following a change of control. Under the indentures governing our and our subsidiaries' notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, we are required to offer to repurchase all of these notes. However, Charter and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of these notes, and our subsidiaries are limited in their ability to make distributions or other payments to fund any required repurchase. In addition, a change of control under our credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities. Because such credit facilities and our subsidiaries' notes are obligations of our subsidiaries, the credit facilities and our subsidiaries' notes would have to be repaid by our subsidiaries before their assets could be available to us to repurchase our convertible senior notes. Our failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place us in default under our convertible senior notes. The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default. 24 Paul G. Allen and his affiliates are not obligated to purchase equity from, contribute to, or loan funds to us or any of our subsidiaries. Paul G. Allen and his affiliates are not obligated to purchase equity from, contribute to, or loan funds to us or any of our subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business and operations. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, easier access to financing, greater personnel and other resources, greater brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules may provide additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale. Our principal competitor for video services throughout our territory is DBS. The two largest DBS providers are DIRECTV and Echostar Communications. Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing and exclusive programming such as the “NFL Sunday Ticket,” has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS has grown rapidly over the last several years. The cable industry, including us, has lost a significant number of video customers to DBS competition, and we face serious challenges in this area in the future. In some areas, DBS operators have entered into co-marketing arrangements with other of our competitors to offer service bundles combining video services provided by the DBS operator and DSL and traditional telephone service offered by the telephone companies. These service bundles resemble our bundles and result in a single bill to the customer. We believe that competition from DBS service providers may present greater challenges in areas of lower population density, and that our systems service a higher concentration of such areas than those of certain other major cable service providers. Local telephone companies and electric utilities can offer video and other services in competition with us and they increasingly may do so in the future. Two major local telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, have both announced that they intend to make upgrades of their networks. Some upgraded portions of these networks are or will be capable of carrying two-way video services that are technically comparable to ours, high-speed data services that operate at speeds as high or higher than those we make available to customers in these areas and digital voice services that are similar to ours. In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services as well as bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies. We believe that AT&T and Verizon’s upgrades have been completed in systems representing approximately 1% of our homes passed as of December 31, 2006. Additional upgrades in markets in which we operate are expected. In areas where they have launched video services, these parties are aggressively marketing video, voice and data bundles at entry level prices similar to those we use to market our bundles. Certain telephone companies have begun more extensive upgrades in their networks that enable them to begin providing video services, as well as telephone and high bandwidth Internet access services, to residential and business customers and they are now offering such service in limited areas. Some of these telephone companies have obtained, and are now seeking, franchises or operating authorizations under terms and conditions more favorable than those imposed on us. With respect to our Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies and other providers of DSL and “dial-up”. DSL service is competitive with high-speed Internet service over cable systems. In addition, DBS providers have entered into joint marketing arrangements with Internet access providers to offer bundled video and Internet service, which competes with our ability to provide bundled services to our customers. Moreover, as we expand our telephone offerings, we face considerable competition from established telephone companies and other carriers, including VoIP providers. In order to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced-price or free service. These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also require us to make capital expenditures to acquire additional digital set-top boxes. Customers who subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers for any significant period of time following the end of the promotional period. A failure to retain existing customers and customers added through promotional offerings or to collect the amounts they owe us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 25 Mergers, joint ventures and alliances among franchised, wireless or private cable operators, satellite television providers, local exchange carriers and others, may provide additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with us. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for our products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from us. If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer. We cannot assure you that our cable systems will allow us to compete effectively. Additionally, as we expand our offerings to include other telecommunications services, and to introduce new and enhanced services, we will be subject to competition from other providers of the services we offer. We cannot predict the extent to which competition may affect our business and operations in the future. We have a history of net losses and expect to continue to experience net losses. Consequently, we may not have the ability to finance future operations. We have had a history of net losses and expect to continue to report net losses for the foreseeable future. Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses and interest expenses we incur because of our high level of debt and the depreciation expenses that we incur resulting from the capital investments we have made in our cable properties. We expect that these expenses will remain significant. We reported net losses applicable to common stock of $1.4 billion, $970 million, and $4.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Continued losses would reduce our cash available from operations to service our indebtedness, as well as limit our ability to finance our operations. We may not have the ability to pass our increasing programming costs on to our customers, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item. In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. We expect programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors, including annual increases imposed by programmers and additional programming, including high definition television, and OnDemand programming, being provided to customers. The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins. We have programming contracts that have expired or that will expire at or before the end of 2007. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms. To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable we may be forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers. Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase our programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission. In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 26 If our required capital expenditures in 2007, 2008 and beyond exceed our projections, we may not have sufficient funding, which could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we spent approximately $1.1 billion on capital expenditures. During 2007, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $1.2 billion. The actual amount of our capital expenditures depends on the level of growth in high-speed Internet and telephone customers, and in the delivery of other advanced services, as well as the cost of introducing any new services. We may need additional capital in 2007, 2008, and beyond if there is accelerated growth in high-speed Internet customers, telephone customers or in the delivery of other advanced services. If we cannot obtain such capital from increases in our cash flow from operating activities, additional borrowings, proceeds from asset sales or other sources, our growth, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer materially. We face risks inherent to our telephone business. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we introduce our telephone service in new operating areas and as we increase the scale of our telephone service offerings in areas in which they have already been launched. First, we face heightened customer expectations for the reliability of telephone services, as compared with our video and high-speed data services. We have undertaken significant training of customer service representatives and technicians, and we will continue to need a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, we may need to increase our expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not sufficiently reliable or we otherwise fail to meet customer expectations, our telephone business could be adversely affected. Second, the competitive landscape for telephone services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, and others. Third, we depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties. As a result, our ability to implement changes as the service grows may be limited. Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our telephone business and operations. Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, or that we will successfully anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth beyond our expectations. Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services. We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history. Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment we need in a timely manner and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition. A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. For these reasons, we generally endeavor to establish alternative vendors for materials we consider critical, but may not be able to establish these relationships or be able to obtain required materials on favorable terms. 27 For example, each of our systems currently purchases set-top boxes from a limited number of vendors, because each of our cable systems uses one or two proprietary conditional access security schemes, which allow us to regulate subscriber access to some services, such as premium channels. We believe that the proprietary nature of these conditional access schemes makes other manufacturers reluctant to produce set-top boxes. Future innovation in set-top boxes may be restricted until these issues are resolved. In addition, we believe that the general lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has slowed the industry’s development and deployment of digital set-top box applications. Malicious and abusive Internet practices could impair our high-speed Internet services. Our high-speed Internet customers utilize our network to access the Internet and, as a consequence, we or they may become victim to common malicious and abusive Internet activities, such as unsolicited mass advertising (i.e., “spam”) and dissemination of viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software. These activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data. Significant incidents could lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. Any significant loss of high-speed Internet customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. We could be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This would impose significant restrictions on us and would be likely to have a material adverse impact on our growth, financial condition and results of operation. Our principal assets are our equity interests in Charter Holdco and certain indebtedness of Charter Holdco. If our membership interest in Charter Holdco were to constitute less than 50% of the voting securities issued by Charter Holdco, then our interest in Charter Holdco could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. This may occur, for example, if a court determines that the Class B common stock is no longer entitled to special voting rights and, in accordance with the terms of the Charter Holdco limited liability company agreement, our membership units in Charter Holdco were to lose their special voting privileges. A determination that such interest was an investment security could cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless an exemption from registration were available or we were to obtain an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission excluding or exempting us from registration under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed an investment company, the Investment Company Act would impose significant restrictions on us, including severe limitations on our ability to borrow money, to issue additional capital stock, and to transact business with affiliates. In addition, because our operations are very different from those of the typical registered investment company, regulation under the Investment Company Act could affect us in other ways that are extremely difficult to predict. In sum, if we were deemed to be an investment company it could become impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and our growth, our financial condition and our results of operations could suffer materially. If a court determines that the Class B common stock is no longer entitled to special voting rights, we would lose our rights to manage Charter Holdco. In addition to the investment company risks discussed above, this could materially impact the value of the Class A common stock. If a court determines that the Class B common stock is no longer entitled to special voting rights, Charter would no longer have a controlling voting interest in, and would lose its right to manage, Charter Holdco. If this were to occur: · we would retain our proportional equity interest in Charter Holdco but would lose all of our powers to direct the management and affairs of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries; and · we would become strictly a passive investment vehicle and would be treated under the Investment Company Act as an investment company. This result, as well as the impact of being treated under the Investment Company Act as an investment company, could materially adversely impact: 28 · the liquidity of the Class A common stock; · how the Class A common stock trades in the marketplace; · the price that purchasers would be willing to pay for the Class A common stock in a change of control transaction or otherwise; and · the market price of the Class A common stock. Uncertainties that may arise with respect to the nature of our management role and voting power and organizational documents as a result of any challenge to the special voting rights of the Class B common stock, including legal actions or proceedings relating thereto, may also materially adversely impact the value of the Class A common stock. For tax purposes, there is significant risk that we will experience an ownership change resulting in a material limitation on the use of a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $6.7 billion of tax net operating losses, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.7 billion, expiring in the years 2007 through 2026. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for deferred benefits available to offset certain deferred tax liabilities. Currently, such tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used to offset any of our future taxable income. However, an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, would place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset future taxable income we may generate. Such limitations, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating losses to offset future taxable income. Future transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an ownership change for income tax purposes. Such transactions include additional issuances of common stock by us (including but not limited to issuances upon future conversion of our 5.875% convertible senior notes), the return to us of the borrowed shares loaned by us in connection with the issuance of the 5.875% convertible senior notes, or acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock (including upon an exchange by Mr. Allen or his affiliates, directly or indirectly, of membership units of Charter Holdco into our Class B common stock). Many of the foregoing transactions, including whether Mr. Allen exchanges his Charter Holdco units, are beyond our control. Risks Related to Mr. Allen's Controlling Position The failure by Mr. Allen to maintain a minimum voting and economic interest in us could trigger a change of control default under our subsidiary's credit facilities. The Charter Operating credit facilities provide that the failure by (a) Mr. Allen, (b) his estate, spouse, immediate family members and heirs and (c) any trust, corporation, partnership or other entity, the beneficiaries, stockholders, partners or other owners of which consist exclusively of Mr. Allen or such other persons referred to in (b) above or a combination thereof to maintain a 35% direct or indirect voting interest in the applicable borrower would result in a change of control default. Such a default could result in the acceleration of repayment of our and our subsidiaries' indebtedness, including borrowings under the Charter Operating credit facilities. Mr. Allen controls our stockholder voting and may have interests that conflict with the interests of the other holders of our Class A common stock. Mr. Allen has the ability to control us. Through his control, as of December 31, 2006, of approximately 91% of the voting power of our capital stock, Mr. Allen is entitled to elect all but one of our board members and effectively has the voting power to elect the remaining board member as well. Mr. Allen thus has the ability to control fundamental corporate transactions requiring equity holder approval, including, but not limited to, the election of all of our directors, approval of merger transactions involving us and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Allen is not restricted from investing in, and has invested in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of cable television systems, video programming, high-speed Internet service, telephone or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband interactivity and Internet services. Mr. Allen may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with us. 29 Mr. Allen's control over our management and affairs could create conflicts of interest if he is faced with decisions that could have different implications for him, us and the other holders of our Class A common stock. For example, if Mr. Allen were to elect to exchange his Charter Holdco membership units for our Class B common stock pursuant to our existing exchange agreement with him, such a transaction would result in an ownership change for income tax purposes, as discussed above. See “— For tax purposes, there is significant risk that we will experience an ownership change resulting in a material limitation on the use of a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards.” Further, Mr. Allen could effectively cause us to enter into contracts with another entity in which he owns an interest, or to decline a transaction into which he (or another entity in which he owns an interest) ultimately enters. Current and future agreements between us and either Mr. Allen or his affiliates may not be the result of arm's-length negotiations. Consequently, such agreements may be less favorable to us than agreements that we could otherwise have entered into with unaffiliated third parties. We are not permitted to engage in any business activity other than the cable transmission of video, audio and data unless Mr. Allen authorizes us to pursue that particular business activity, which could adversely affect our ability to offer new products and services outside of the cable transmission business and to enter into new businesses, and could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Our certificate of incorporation and Charter Holdco's limited liability company agreement provide that Charter and Charter Holdco and our subsidiaries, cannot engage in any business activity outside the cable transmission business except for specified businesses. This will be the case unless Mr. Allen consents to our engaging in the business activity. The cable transmission business means the business of transmitting video, audio (including telephone services), and data over cable television systems owned, operated, or managed by us from time to time. These provisions may limit our ability to take advantage of attractive business opportunities. The loss of Mr. Allen's services could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Mr. Allen is Chairman of our board of directors and provides strategic guidance and other services to us. If we were to lose his services, our growth, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The special tax allocation provisions of the Charter Holdco limited liability company agreement may cause us in some circumstances to pay more taxes than if the special tax allocation provisions were not in effect. Charter Holdco's limited liability company agreement provided that through the end of 2003, net tax losses (such net tax losses being determined under the federal income tax rules for determining capital accounts) of Charter Holdco that would otherwise have been allocated to us based generally on our percentage ownership of outstanding common membership units of Charter Holdco, would instead be allocated to the membership units held by Vulcan Cable III Inc. (“Vulcan Cable”) and CII. The purpose of these special tax allocation provisions was to allow Mr. Allen to take advantage, for tax purposes, of the losses generated by Charter Holdco during such period. In some situations, these special tax allocation provisions could result in our having to pay taxes in an amount that is more or less than if Charter Holdco had allocated net tax losses to its members based generally on the percentage of outstanding common membership units owned by such members. For further discussion on the details of the tax allocation provisions see “Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Income Taxes.” Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business. Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' administrative and operational expenses and limited their revenues. Cable operators are subject to, among other things: · rules governing the provision of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies; · rules and regulations relating to subscriber privacy; · limited rate regulation; · requirements governing when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain consent to carry a broadcast station; 30 · rules and regulations relating to provision of voice communications; · rules for franchise renewals and transfers; and · other requirements covering a variety of operational areas such as equal employment opportunity, technical standards, and customer service requirements. Additionally, many aspects of these regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face. Certain states and localities are considering new telecommunications taxes that could increase operating expenses. Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business. Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way. Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed. Local franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal. In some instances, franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a license while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities. Approximately 12% of our franchises, covering approximately 15% of our analog video customers, were expired as of December 31, 2006. Approximately 8% of additional franchises, covering approximately an additional 11% of our analog video customers, will expire on or before December 31, 2007, if not renewed prior to expiration. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisors have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements. Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future. A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area. Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create competition in market areas where none existed previously, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations. Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Consequently, local franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems. In addition, certain telephone companies are seeking authority to operate in local communities without first obtaining a local franchise. As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises. In some cases municipal utilities may legally compete with us without obtaining a franchise from the local franchising authority. Legislative proposals have been introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures that would greatly streamline cable franchising. This legislation is intended to facilitate entry by new competitors, particularly local telephone companies. Such legislation has passed in several states, including states where we have significant operations. Although certain of these states have provided some regulatory relief for incumbent cable operators, these proposals are generally viewed as being more favorable to new entrants due to a number of factors, including efforts to withhold streamlined cable franchising from incumbents until after the expiration of their existing franchises, and the potential for new entrants to serve only higher-income areas of a particular community. To the extent incumbent cable operators are not able to avail themselves of this streamlined franchising process, such operators may continue to be subject to more onerous franchise requirements at the local level than new entrants. At least two additional states where we have cable systems have issued regulations that will facilitate telephone company provision of video services by eliminating or reducing the application of franchising requirements to the telephone companies. A proceeding is pending at the FCC to determine whether local franchising authorities are impeding the deployment of competitive cable services through unreasonable franchising requirements and whether such impediments should be preempted. We are not yet able to determine what impact such proceeding may have on us. 31 The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild. These overbuilds could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations by creating or increasing competition. As of December 31, 2006, we are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 7% of our estimated homes passed, and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing approximately an additional 4% of our estimated homes passed. Additional overbuild situations may occur in other systems. Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which could further increase our expenses. In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems. This additional regulation increases the cost of operating our business. We cannot assure you that the local franchising authorities will not impose new and more restrictive requirements. Local franchising authorities also generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic services. Further regulation of the cable industry could cause us to delay or cancel service or programming enhancements, or impair our ability to raise rates to cover our increasing costs, resulting in increased losses. Currently, rate regulation is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities. However, the FCC and the U.S. Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation. It is possible that either the FCC or the U.S. Congress will again restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases. Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise our rates. If we are unable to raise our rates in response to increasing costs, our losses would increase. There has been considerable legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an á la carte basis, or to at least offer a separately available child-friendly “Family Tier.” It is possible that new marketing restrictions could be adopted in the future. Such restrictions could adversely affect our operations. Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs. Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles. Cable system attachments to public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service. The FCC clarified that a cable operator's favorable pole rates are not endangered by the provision of Internet access, and that approach ultimately was upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States. Despite the existing regulatory regime, utility pole owners in many areas are attempting to raise pole attachment fees and impose additional costs on cable operators and others. The favorable pole attachment rates afforded cable operators under federal law can be increased by utility companies if the operator provides telecommunications services, in addition to cable service, over cable wires attached to utility poles. To date, VoIP service has not been classified as either a telecommunications service or cable service under the Communications Act. If VoIP were classified as a telecommunications service under the Communications Act by the FCC, a state Public Utility Commission, or an appropriate court, it might result in significantly increased pole attachment costs for us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are a defendant in at least one lawsuit where the utility company claims that we should pay an increased rate on its poles. Any significant increased pole attachment costs could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and discourage system upgrades and the introduction of new products and services. We may be required to provide access to our networks to other Internet service providers which could significantly increase our competition and adversely affect our ability to provide new products and services. A number of companies, including independent Internet service providers (“ISPs”), have requested local authorities and the FCC to require cable operators to provide non-discriminatory access to cable's broadband infrastructure, so that these companies may deliver Internet services directly to customers over cable facilities. In a 2005 ruling, commonly referred to as Brand X , the Supreme Court upheld an FCC decision making it less likely that any nondiscriminatory “open access” requirements (which are generally associated with common carrier regulation of “telecommunications services”) will be imposed on the cable industry by local, state or federal authorities. The Supreme Court held that the FCC was correct in classifying cable provided Internet service as an “information service,” rather than a “telecommunications service.” Notwithstanding Brand X, there has been increasing advocacy by certain internet content providers and consumer groups for new federal laws or regulations to adopt so-called “net 32 neutrality” principles limiting the ability of broadband network owners (like Charter) to manage and control their own networks. The proposals might prevent network owners, for example, from charging bandwidth intensive content providers, such as certain online gaming, music, and video service providers, an additional fee to ensure quality delivery of the services to consumers. If we were required to allocate a portion of our bandwidth capacity to other Internet service providers, or were prohibited from charging heavy bandwidth intensive services a fee for use of our networks, we believe that it could impair our ability to use our bandwidth in ways that would generate maximum revenues. Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us. Cable operators also face significant regulation of their channel carriage. They currently can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that they would not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals, local public, educational, and government access programming, and unaffiliated commercial leased access programming. This carriage burden could increase in the future, particularly if cable systems were required to carry both the analog and digital versions of local broadcast signals (dual carriage), or to carry multiple program streams included with a single digital broadcast transmission (multicast carriage). Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that would maximize customer appeal and revenue potential. Although the FCC issued a decision in February 2005, confirming an earlier ruling against mandating either dual carriage or multicast carriage, that decision is subject to a petition for reconsideration which is pending. In addition, the FCC could reverse its own ruling or Congress could legislate additional carriage obligations. Offering voice communications service may subject us to additional regulatory burdens, causing us to incur additional costs. In 2002, we began to offer voice communications services on a limited basis over our broadband network. We continue to develop and deploy VoIP services. The FCC has declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Expanding our offering of these services may require us to obtain certain authorizations, including federal and state licenses. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses or authorizations that may not be favorable to us. The FCC has extended certain traditional telecommunications requirements, such as E911 and Universal Service requirements, to many VoIP providers, such as Charter. The FCC has also required that these VoIP providers comply with obligations applied to traditional telecommunications carriers to ensure their networks can accommodate law enforcement wiretaps by May 2007. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 