Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not yet known or currently believed to be immaterial may also impair Cytomedix’s business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of its common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to Cytomedix securities. There is Substantial Doubt As to the Company’s Ability to Continue As a Going Concern The Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and has insufficient liquidity to fund its ongoing operations that raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, the Company’s financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that it will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, the Company will need to increase sales volume and obtain additional capital to continue as a going concern and to fund our operations, including to: • Continue and increase investment in sales and marketing activities related to the AutoloGelTM System • Pursue development of CT-112 beyond a Phase I clinical trial • Develop additional new products and/or make improvements to existing products • Conduct additional trial(s) to support efforts to obtain CMS reimbursement for its products • Pursue existing and new claims covered by intellectual property owned or contemplated by the Company • Sustain its corporate overhead requirements and hire and retain necessary personnel • Pursue other potential attractive opportunities Until the Company can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance its cash requirements, which it may not accomplish, it expects to finance future cash needs primarily through offerings of its debt or equity securities, strategic collaborations, or government grants. The Company does not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If the Company is not able to secure additional funding when needed, it may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of its programs. In addition, it may have to partner one or more of its technologies at an earlier stage of development, which could lower the economic value of those programs to the Company. The Company’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Has Expressed Substantial Doubt About Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern The Company has received an audit report from its independent registered accounting firm containing an explanatory paragraph stating that its historical recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Adverse Conditions in the Global Economy and Disruption of Financial Markets May Significantly Restrict the Company’s Ability to Generate Revenues or Obtain Debt or Equity Financing The global economy is currently experiencing a significant economic downturn. Such a downturn could reduce demand for the Company’s products, significantly jeopardizing the ability to achieve meaningful market penetration for AutoloGelTM. This downturn could also affect potential strategic partners of Cytomedix, which in turn could make it much more difficult to execute a strategic collaboration, and therefore significantly jeopardize the Company’s ability to fully develop CT-112. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Cytomedix may be unable to obtain capital through issuance of its equity securities, a significant source of funding for the Company throughout its history. If it is unable to secure funding through strategic collaborations, equity investments, or debt financing, it may not be able to achieve profitability and could result in a cessation of operations. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit Cytomedix customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for Cytomedix products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause customers to reduce purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact the Company’s suppliers’ ability to supply sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair the Company’s ability to fulfill sales orders. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect the Company’s suppliers, customers, investors, and business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm sales, profitability and results of operations. Economic downturns or other adverse economic changes (local, regional, or national) can also hurt the Company’s financial performance in the form of lower interest earned on investments and/or could result in losses of portions of principal in the Company’s investment portfolio. While the Company’s investment policy requires it to invest only in short-term, low risk investments, there is no assurance that principal will not be eroded as a significant portion of these investments is in excess of federally mandated insurance. The Company Will Be Subject to Additional Scrutiny by NYSE Amex for Continued Listing As a NYSE Amex listed company, Cytomedix is required to comply with the continued listing criteria of the exchange. Maintaining stockholders’ equity of at least $6 million for a company that has had operating losses in its most recent five fiscsal years is one of such listing criteria. Since the Company’s stockholders’ equity balance as of December 31, 2008 is approximately $3.1 million, there is no assurance that NYSE Amex will not consider initiating suspension or delisting procedures. Furthermore, if it does consider these actions, there is no assurance that the Company will be successful in presenting a plan of compliance evidencing the Company’s strategy to regain compliance with all continued listing criteria, or, even if it does, the NYSE Amex accepts such plan and grants the Company a grace period to implement such plan. Still further, even if such grace period is granted, there is no assurance that the Company will execute its compliance plan as intended. If any of the above actions are taken, it could significantly reduce the active market for and liquidity of the Company’s stock. The Company Has Limited Sources of Working Capital Because the Company was in bankruptcy in 2002 and due to the rights of some of the Company’s preferred shareholders, the Company may not be able to obtain debt financing. All working capital required to implement the Company’s business plan will be provided by funds obtained through offerings of its equity securities, and revenues generated by the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will have revenues sufficient to support and sustain its operations or that it would be able to obtain equity financing in the current economic environment. To date, the overwhelming majority of the Company’s revenues have been provided by its licensing agreements. These agreements expire at the end of 2009. This revenue stream will be lost and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to replace these revenues through product sales, new licensing agreements, or other sources. If the Company does not have sufficient working capital and is unable to generate revenues or raise additional funds, the Company may delay the completion of or significantly reduce the scope of its current business plan; delay some of its development and clinical or marketing testing, its plans to pursue Medicare and/or commercial insurance reimbursement for its wound treatment technologies; or postpone the hiring of new personnel; or, under certain dire financial circumstances, cease its operations. The Company Has a History of Losses The Company has a history of losses, is not currently profitable, and expects to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows for the foreseeable future. The Company may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. The Company expects its expenses will increase for the foreseeable future as it seeks to expand its operations, pursue development of its technologies, accelerate the achievement of sales revenues, implement internal systems and infrastructure, and hire additional personnel. These ongoing financial losses may adversely affect its stock price. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company Has a Short Operating History and Limited Operating Experience The Company must be evaluated in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. The Company has only recently implemented its current business plan. Thus, the Company has a very limited operating history. Continued operating losses, together with the risks associated with the Company’s ability to gain new customers for its product offerings may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company may also be forced to respond to unforeseen difficulties, such as decreasing demand for its products and services, regulatory requirements and unanticipated market pressures. Since emerging from bankruptcy and continuing through today, the Company is developing a business model that includes protecting its patent position, addressing its third-party reimbursement issues, developing a sales and marketing program, and developing other technologies covered by, or derived from, its intellectual property. There can be no assurance that its business model in its current form can accomplish the Company’s stated goals. The Company’s Intellectual Property Assets Are Critical to Its Success The Company regards its patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property assets as critical to its success. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secret and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other similar measures, to establish and protect its intellectual property. The Company attempts to prevent disclosure of its trade secrets by restricting access to sensitive information and requiring employees, consultants, and other persons with access to the Company’s sensitive information to sign confidentiality agreements. Despite these efforts, the Company may not be able to prevent misappropriation of its technology or deter others from developing similar technology in the future. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of its intellectual property assets is difficult and expensive. Litigation has been necessary in the past and may likely be necessary in the future in order to protect the Company’s intellectual property assets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. The Company cannot assure that it will be successful in any litigation matter relating to its intellectual property assets. Continuing litigation or other challenges could result in one or more of its patents being declared invalid. In such a case, any royalty revenues from the affected patents would be adversely affected although the Company may still be able to continue to develop and market its products. Furthermore, the unauthorized use of the Company’s patented technology by otherwise potential customers in its target market, may significantly undermine its ability to generate sales. The Company’s patent covering the specific gel formulation that is applied as part of the AutoloGelTM System (the “Worden Patent”) expires no earlier than February 2019. The Company’s U.S. Knighton Patent (which is the subject of license agreements between the Company and Medtronic, Inc., DePuy Spine, Inc., Biomet Biologics, Inc., COBE Cardiovascular, Inc., and Harvest Technologies Corporation, among others) expires in November 2009. In 2008, the license agreements under the Knighton Patent accounted for approximately 95% of the Company’s revenues. There is no assurance that the Company will obtain a significantly increased share of the wound care market prior to the expiration of the U.S. Knighton Patent in 2009, after which the Company may be more vulnerable to competitive factors because third parties will not then need a license from the Company to perform the methods claimed in the Knighton Patent. The AutoloGelTM System and Components Are Subject to Governmental Regulation The Company’s success is also impacted by factors outside of the Company’s control. The Company’s current technology and products may be subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, both federal and state, and in foreign countries by various regulatory agencies. Specifically, the Company’s devices and bio-pharmaceutical products are subject to regulation by the FDA and state regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates drugs, medical devices and biologics that move in interstate commerce and requires that such products receive clearance or pre-marketing approval based on evidence of safety and efficacy. The regulations of government health ministries in foreign countries are analogous to those of the FDA in both application and scope. In addition, any change in current regulatory interpretations by, or positions of, state regulatory officials where the AutoloGelTM System is used could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell products in those states. The FDA will require the Company to obtain clearance or approval of new devices when used for treating specific wounds or marketed with specific wound healing claims, or for other products under development. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company believes that the AutoloGelTM System and all Company products are legally marketed. The FDA has cleared the Company to market the AutoloGelTM System, including the Wound Dressing Kit and Centrifuge II, for use in exuding wounds such as leg ulcers, pressure ulcers, and diabetic ulcers, and the management of mechanically and surgically-debrided wounds.. As the Company expands and offers additional products in the United States and in foreign countries, clearance or approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to introduction of any such products into the market may be required. The Company has no assurance that it will be able to obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries for these products. Failure to obtain the required approvals would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. Compliance with FDA and other governmental requirements imposes significant costs and expenses. Further, the Company’s failure to comply with these requirements could result in sanctions, limitations on promotional or other business activities, or other adverse effects on the Company’s business. Further, recent efforts to control healthcare costs could negatively affect demand for the Company’s products and services. Clinical Trials May Fail to Demonstrate the Safety or Efficacy of the Company’s Product Candidates The Company’s product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of biotherapeutic products. The results of early-stage clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if the Company believes the data collected from clinical trials of its product candidates is promising, this data may not be sufficient to support approval by the U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, the regulatory officials could reach different conclusions in assessing such data, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the U.S. regulatory authorities or the Company may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, has the potential to materially harm the Company’s business, and may prevent it from raising necessary, additional financing that may be needed in the future. A Disruption in Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Operations and Profitability The Company’s operations and future profitability are dependent, in large part, upon the ability to contract with healthcare providers on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers could refuse to contract with Cytomedix or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, or create difficulties in meeting the Company’s regulatory requirements. In some service areas, certain healthcare providers may have a significant market presence. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with Cytomedix, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts or place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, the Company’s ability to market services or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large healthcare provider group. Any disruption in provider networks could adversely impact the Company’s ability to generate revenues or profits. The Company’s Sales and Marketing Strategy for Its AutoloGelTM System May Not Succeed In January 2009, the Company implemented a revised sales and marketing strategy that focuses on intensive clinician to clinician interaction with both prospective and existing customers. There is no assurance that this approach will result in a significant increase in sales revenue, or that the Company, as currently capitalized, will have sufficient resources to provide the level of clinical support for this initiative to be successful. CMS’s Non-Coverage of AutoloGelTM Could Greatly Restrict the Company’s Sales The AutoloGelTM System is marketed to healthcare providers. Some of these providers, in turn, seek reimbursement from third-party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and other private insurers. Many foreign countries also have comprehensive government managed healthcare programs that provide reimbursement for healthcare products. Under such healthcare systems, reimbursement is often a determining factor in predicting a product’s success, with some physicians and patients strongly favoring only those products for which they 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS will be reimbursed. With CMS’s national non-coverage decision, the market for the AutoloGelTM System could be greatly restricted and it may be difficult, if not impossible, to sell AutoloGelTM in most care settings. This would hamper the Company’s ability to grow its revenues and could reduce the likelihood that it will ever achieve sustainable profitability. The Company’s Intention to Develop a Plan to Secure Medicare Reimbursement Without Conducting a New Randomized Controlled Trial May Not Be Successful In March 2008, CMS reaffirmed its 2003 non-coverage decision for PRP gel, which would include AutoloGelTM. Following CMS’s decision, the Company met with CMS in April 2008 to discuss the optimal path for securing future coverage for AutoloGelTM and is currently working with consultants and advisors to develop a strategy to obtain Medicare reimbursement for AutoloGelTM. While the Company is striving to obtain a positive coverage decision without undertaking a new randomized, controlled trial with the same rigors, restrictions, and costs of its previous RCT, there is no assurance that the Company will ultimately determine that this is the optimal route forward. If it chooses to undertake a new randomized, controlled trial, it could cost several millions of dollars and take multiple years to complete. The Company would likely need to obtain additional, outside financing to fund such a trial. Additionally, even if the Company develops a final strategy for obtaining Medicare reimbursement that does not require an RCT, there is no assurance that CMS will determine that the evidence is sufficient to reverse all or a portion of its existing non-coverage decision. Clinical Trials May Fail to Demonstrate the Safety or Efficacy of CT-112 Peptides, Which Could Prevent or Significantly Delay Regulatory Approval and Prevent the Company From Raising Additional Financing Based on the results of the pre-clinical animal studies done on the Company’s CT-112 peptide, the Company plans to pursue further development of this product for the treatment of certain inflammatory diseases. All of the Company’s product candidates, including CT-112 peptides, are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of bio-therapeutic products. The results of early-stage clinical trials of the Company’s product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if Cytomedix believes the data collected from clinical trials of its product candidates is promising, this data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory body. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, FDA officials could reach different conclusions in assessing such data than does the Company, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for the Company’s product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, has the potential to materially harm its business, and may prevent it from raising necessary, additional financing that it may need in the future. There is no assurance that the Company will obtain the necessary FDA approval of an IND in connection with the peptide and therefore may never be able to proceed with human clinical trials. Finally, there is no assurance that the Company will succeed in developing CT-112 as anticipated, that development of CT-112 will proceed according to the timeline planned by the Company or that the necessary additional capital and/or strategic partnership will be available on conditions acceptable to the Company. The Company May Be Unable to Accurately Predict Its Royalty Revenues While the Company currently has several primary licensing agreements that are expected to generate on-going royalty revenues through November 2009, the Company cannot currently reasonably predict the magnitude of those revenues. Royalty streams from these agreements are entirely dependent on the sales of its licensees and are therefore outside the control of Cytomedix. Past levels of royalty revenues from these agreements are not necessarily an indication of future activity. Unexpected fluctuations of such revenues may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. The Success of the AutoloGelTM System Is Dependent on Acceptance by the Medical Community The commercial success of the Company’s products and processes will depend upon the medical community and patients accepting the therapies as safe and effective. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept the therapies as safe and effective, the Company’s ability to sell the products and processes will 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS be materially and adversely affected. While acceptance by the medical community may be fostered by broad evaluation via peer-reviewed literature, the Company may not have the resources to facilitate sufficient publication. The Company May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The future success of the Company depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, including sales representatives. The Company has retained a team of highly qualified officers and consultants, but the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully retain all of them, or be successful in recruiting additional personnel as needed. The Company’s inability to do so will materially and adversely affect the business prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s ability to maintain and provide additional services to its existing customers depends upon its ability to hire and retain business development and scientific and technical personnel with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in regenerative biological therapy technologies. Competition for such personnel is intense; the Company competes with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and healthcare companies. The Company’s inability to hire additional qualified personnel may lead to higher recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for such personnel. These increased costs may reduce the Company’s profit margins or make hiring new personnel impractical. Legislative and Administrative Action May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company Political, economic and regulatory influences may subject the health care industry in the United States to fundamental change. The Company cannot predict what other legislation relating to its business or to the health care industry may be enacted, including legislation relating to third-party reimbursement, or what effect such legislation may have on the Company’s business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company expects federal and state legislators to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems and possibly adopt legislation affecting fundamental changes in the health care delivery system. Such laws may contain provisions that may change the operating environment for its targeted customers including hospitals and managed care organizations. Health care industry participants may react to such legislation by curtailing or deferring expenditures and initiatives, including those relating to the Company’s products. Future legislation could result in modifications to the existing public and private health care insurance systems that would have a material adverse effect on the reimbursement policies discussed above. With growing pressures on government budgets due to the current economic downturn, government efforts to contain or reduce health care spending are likely to gain increasing emphasis. Several members of the new presidential administration and Congress have previously expressed support for cost-containment measures, such as a universal health insurance program, that could have significant implications for healthcare therapies, including the Company’s current and future products. If enacted and implemented, such measures could result in decreased revenue from the AutoloGelTM System and decrease potential returns from the Company’s research and development initiatives. The Company Could Be Affected by Malpractice Claims Providing medical care entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other claims. The Company does not control or direct the practice of medicine by physicians or health care providers who use the products and does not assume responsibility for compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to physicians. The Company cannot assure that claims, suits or complaints relating to the use of the AutoloGelTM System and treatment administered by physicians will not be asserted against the Company in the future. The production, marketing and sale, and use of the AutoloGelTM System entail risks that product liability claims will be asserted against the Company. These risks cannot be eliminated, and the Company could be held liable for any damages that result from adverse reactions or infectious disease transmission. Such liability could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company currently maintains professional and product liability insurance coverage, but the Company cannot give assurance that the coverage limits of this insurance would be adequate to protect against all potential claims. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to obtain or maintain professional and product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS AutoloGelTM Has Existing Competition in the Marketplace In the market for biotechnology products, the Company faces competition from pharmaceutical companies, biopharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, and other competitors. Other companies have developed or are developing products that may be in direct competition with the AutoloGelTM System. Biotechnology development projects are characterized by intense competition. Thus, the Company cannot assure any investor that it will be the first to the market with any newly developed products or that it will successfully be able to market these products. If the Company is not able to participate and compete in the regenerative biological therapy market, the Company’s financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, larger marketing staffs and more experience in commercializing products. Recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, may be the basis for developments that will compete with the Company’s products. The Company May Issue Additional Equity or Debt Securities Which May Materially and Adversely Affect the Price of Its Common Stock Sales of substantial amounts of shares of the Company’s common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of its common stock to decline. Cytomedix has used, and will likely continue to use, its Common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common stock to fund working capital needs or to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. If additional equity securities are issued, particularly during times when the Company’s Common stock is trading at relatively low price levels, the price of its Common stock may be materially and adversely affected. There Is a Limited Public Trading Market for the Company’s Common Stock The average daily trading volume in Cytomedix Common stock is relatively low. As long as this condition continues, it could be difficult or impossible to sell a significant number of shares of Common stock at any particular time at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. Stockholders may be required to hold shares of Cytomedix’s Common stock for an indefinite period of time. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of Common stock could lower the prevailing market price of the Company’s Common stock. This would limit or perhaps prevent the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of securities. Additionally, the Company has significant numbers of outstanding warrants and options that, if exercised and sold, could put additional downward pressure on the Common stock price. In addition, in recent years, and especially in recent months, the stock market in general, and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and significant downward trends. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and it may adversely affect the price of Cytomedix’s common stock. These broad market fluctuations may reduce the demand for the Company’s stock and therefore adversely affect the price of the Company’s securities, regardless of operating performance. The Company Is Subject to Anti-Takeover Provisions and Laws Provisions in Cytomedix’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without the approval of the Board of Directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of the Company’s outstanding voting Common stock or delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect the Common stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 