ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information under the caption “Competition,” the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Our business and our financial condition have been adversely affected by general economic conditions. The purchase of a satellite radio subscription is discretionary, and we believe that our business and our financial condition have been adversely affected by general economic conditions. In addition, the dramatic slowdown in auto sales negatively impacted our subscriber growth in 2008 and 2009. Demand for our service is difficult to predict. We cannot estimate with any certainty whether consumer demand for our service will be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of subscribers to our service. Our satellite radio service has experienced a decrease in new subscriptions from retail subscribers and most new subscription growth has come from new and used automobiles. Failure of third parties to perform could adversely affect our business. Our business depends in part on the efforts of various third parties, including: • manufacturers that build and distribute satellite radios; • companies that manufacture and sell integrated circuits for satellite radios; • programming providers and on-air talent, including Howard Stern; • retailers that market and sell satellite radios and promote subscriptions to our services; and • vendors that have designed or built, and vendors that support or operate, important elements of our systems, such as our satellites and customer service facilities. If one or more of these third parties do not perform in a sufficient or timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, a number of third parties on which we depend have, and may in the future, experience financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy protection. Such third parties may not be able to perform their obligations to us in a timely manner, if at all, as a result of their financial condition or may be relieved of their obligations to us as part of seeking bankruptcy protection. We design, establish specifications, source or specify parts and components, and manage various aspects of the logistics and production of radios. As a result of these activities, we may be exposed to liabilities associated with the design, manufacture and distribution of radios that the providers of an entertainment service would not customarily be subject to, such as liabilities for design defects, patent infringement and compliance with applicable laws, as well as the costs of returned product. Programming is an important part of our service, and the costs to renew our programming arrangements may be more than anticipated. Third-party content is an important part of our satellite radio service, and we compete with many entities for content. We have entered into a number of important content arrangements, including an agreement with Major League Baseball (“MLB”), which require us to pay substantial sums. Our agreement with MLB expires at the end of the 2012 MLB season. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate renewals of one or more of these agreements, or renew such agreements at costs we believe are attractive. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional third-party content within the costs contemplated by our business plans. We employ, or independently contract with, on-air talent who maintain significant loyal audiences in or across various demographic groups. There can be no assurance that this on-air talent will remain with us or that we will be able to retain their respective audiences. If we lose the services of one or more of them, or fail to attract qualified replacement personnel, it could harm our business and future prospects. 12 Table of Contents We must maintain and pay license fees for music rights. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with, and pay license fees to, BMI, ASCAP and SESAC. These organizations negotiate with copyright users, collect royalties and distribute them to songwriters and music publishers. We have agreements with ASCAP and SESAC through December 2011. We do not have a definitive agreement with BMI, and we continue to operate under an interim agreement with BMI. There can be no assurance that the BMI royalty fee will remain at the current level when the pending agreement is finalized. Under the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, we pay royalties to copyright owners of sound recordings. Those royalty rates may be established through negotiation or, if negotiation is unsuccessful, by the CRB. Our next rate setting proceeding before the CRB is scheduled to commence in January 2011, and, if negotiations prove unsuccessful, these royalty rates may not remain at their current levels following the proceeding. Higher than expected costs of attracting new subscribers, higher subscriber turnover or weaker than expected advertising revenue could each adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. We are spending substantial funds on advertising and marketing and in transactions with automakers, radio manufacturers, retailers and others to obtain and attract subscribers. If the costs of attracting new subscribers are greater than expected, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. We are experiencing, and expect to continue to experience, subscriber turnover, or churn. If we are unable to retain our current subscribers, or the costs of retaining subscribers are higher than we expect, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot predict how successful we will be at retaining customers who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to their satellite radio service. During 2009, we converted approximately 47.6% of the customers who received a promotional subscription as part of the purchase or lease of a new vehicle to a self-paying subscription. Over the same period, we have experienced churn of our self-pay subscribers of approximately 2.03% per month. We cannot predict the amount of churn we will experience over the longer term. Our inability to retain customers who either purchase or lease new vehicles with our service beyond the promotional period, or who purchase or lease a new vehicle that includes a prepaid subscription to our services, and self-pay subscriber churn could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is directly affected by general economic conditions, the number of subscribers to our service and the amount of time subscribers spend listening to the talk and entertainment channels or the traffic and weather services. General economic conditions are affecting our ad revenues. Our ability to generate advertising revenues also depends on several factors, including the level and type of penetration of our services, competition for advertising dollars from other media, and changes in the advertising industry and the economy generally. We directly compete for audiences and advertising revenues with traditional AM/FM radio stations and other media, some of which maintain longstanding relationships with advertisers. We may from time to time modify our business plan, and these changes could adversely affect us and our financial condition. We regularly evaluate our plans and strategy. These evaluations often result in changes to our plans and strategy, some of which may be material and significantly change our cash requirements. These changes in our plans or strategy may include: the acquisition or termination of unique or compelling programming; the introduction of new features or services; significant new or enhanced distribution arrangements; investments in infrastructure, such as satellites, equipment or radio spectrum; and acquisitions, including acquisitions that are not directly related to our satellite radio business. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.7 billion of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. For example, it: • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • limits our ability to borrow additional funds or make capital expenditure; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the audio entertainment industry; and • may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other competitors. 13 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, investments in new technologies and future business opportunities. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur more debt, pay dividends, make distributions, make certain investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into sale lease-back transactions, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets. Failure to comply with the covenants contained in the indentures and agreements governing this debt could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for our business or assets. Our business might never become profitable. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $6.7 billion. We expect our cumulative net losses to grow as we make payments under various contracts, incur marketing and subscriber acquisition costs and make interest payments on existing debt. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately $1.7 billion. If we are unable ultimately to consistently generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, we may not be able to make the required payments on our indebtedness and could ultimately default on our commitments. Our business depends in large part upon automakers, a number of whom have experienced a sharp decline in sales, have reduced production and are experiencing extreme financial difficulties. The sale and lease of vehicles with satellite radios is an important source of subscribers for our satellite radio services. We have agreements with every major automaker to include satellite radios in new vehicles, although these agreements do not require automakers to install specific or minimum quantities of radios in any given period. Economic conditions, particularly the dramatic slowdown in auto sales, negatively impacted subscriber growth for our services in 2008 and 2009. Our subscription growth is dependent, in large part, on sales and vehicle production by automakers. Automotive sales and production are dependent on many factors, including the availability of consumer credit, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and fuel costs. To the extent vehicle sales by automakers continue to decline, or the penetration of factory-installed satellite radios in those vehicles is reduced, and there is no offsetting growth in vehicle sales or increased penetration by other automakers, subscriber growth for our satellite radio services will be adversely impacted. Rapid technological and industry changes could adversely impact our services. The audio entertainment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, and evolving standards. If we are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could make our technologies less competitive in the marketplace. Consumers could pirate our services. Individuals who engage in piracy may be able to obtain or rebroadcast our satellite radio service or access the internet transmission of our services without paying the subscription fee. Although we use encryption technologies to mitigate the risk of signal theft, such technologies may not be adequate to prevent theft of the signals. If signal theft becomes widespread, it could harm our business. Failure of our satellites would significantly damage our business and potential satellite losses may not be covered by insurance. We operate four in-orbit satellites, including two satellites that are used for backup purposes only. The useful lives of these satellites will vary and depend on a number of factors, including: • degradation and durability of solar panels; • quality of construction; • random failure of satellite components, which could result in significant damage to or loss of a satellite; • amount of fuel the satellites consume; and • damage or destruction by electrostatic storms or collisions with other objects in space. 14 Table of Contents We placed our XM-3 and XM-4 satellites into service during the second quarter of 2005 and during the fourth quarter of 2006, respectively. Our XM-1 and XM-2 satellites experienced progressive degradation problems common to early Boeing 702 class satellites and now serve as in-orbit spares. We estimate that the XM-3 and XM-4 satellites will meet their 15-year predicted useful lives, and that XM-1 and XM-2 satellites’ useful lives will end in 2011. An operational failure or loss of XM-3 or XM-4 would, at least temporarily, affect the quality of our service, and could interrupt the continuation of our service and harm our business. We expect to launch the XM-5 satellite, which will serve as an in-orbit spare for the SIRIUS and XM services, in the third quarter of 2010. In the event of any satellite failure prior to that time, we would need to rely on our back-up satellites, XM-1 and XM-2. There can be no assurance that restoring service through XM-1 and XM-2 would allow XM to maintain adequate broadcast signal strength through the date on which XM-5 is brought into service, particularly if XM-1 or XM-2 were to suffer unanticipated additional performance degradation or experience an operational failure. In addition, our network of terrestrial repeaters communicates with our satellites. If the satellites communicating with our repeater network fail unexpectedly, the services would be disrupted for several hours or longer. In the ordinary course of operation, satellites experience failures of component parts and operational and performance anomalies. Components on our in-orbit satellites have failed and from time to time we have experienced anomalies in the operation and performance of these satellites. These failures and anomalies are expected to continue in the ordinary course, and we cannot predict if any of these future events will have a material adverse effect on our operations or the useful life of our existing in-orbit satellites. We maintain in-orbit insurance covering our primary satellites broadcasting our service, but do not maintain insurance on our back-up satellites. Any insurance proceeds will not fully cover our losses in the event of a satellite failure or significant degradation. For example, the policies covering the insured satellites do not cover the full cost of constructing, launching and insuring new satellites or our in-orbit spare satellites, nor will they cover, and we do not have protection against, business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. Our insurance contains customary exclusions, material change and other conditions that could limit recovery under those policies. Further, any insurance proceeds may not be received on a timely basis in order to launch a spare satellite or construct and launch a replacement satellite or take other remedial measures. In addition, the policies are subject to limitations involving uninsured losses, large satellite performance deductibles and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. Our broadcast studios, terrestrial repeater networks, satellite uplink facilities or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorist activities. An earthquake, tornado, flood, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could damage our broadcast studios, terrestrial repeater networks or satellite uplink facilities, interrupt our service and harm our business. We do not have replacement or redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of our terrestrial repeater network. We do have redundant facilities that can be used to assume immediately many of the functions of the broadcast studios and satellite uplink facilities in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to the satellites that transmit to our terrestrial repeater network would likely result in degradation of our service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in certain or all areas. Damage to our satellite uplink facilities could result in a complete loss of our service until we could transfer our operations to our back-up facilities. Electromagnetic interference from others could damage our business. Our satellite radio service may be subject to interference caused by other users of radio frequencies, such as Wireless Communications Service (“WCS”) users. The FCC is seeking comment on proposals by certain WCS licensees for modification of rules regarding their operations in spectrum adjacent to satellite radio, including rule changes to facilitate mobile broadband services in the WCS frequencies. We are participating actively in this proceeding and have opposed the changes requested by WCS licensees out of a concern for their impact on the reception of satellite radio service. We cannot predict the outcome of the FCC proceeding, or the impact on satellite radio reception. Failure to comply with FCC requirements could damage our business. We hold FCC licenses and authorizations to operate commercial satellite radio services in the United States, including authorizations for satellites and terrestrial repeaters, and related authorizations. The FCC generally grants licenses and authorizations for a fixed term. Although we expect our licenses and authorizations to be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Any assignment or transfer of control of any of our FCC licenses or authorizations must be approved in advance by the FCC. 15 Table of Contents The operation of our satellite radio system is subject to significant regulation by the FCC under authority granted through the Communications Act and related federal law. We are required, among other things, to operate only within specified frequencies; to meet certain conditions regarding the interoperability of our satellite radios with those of other licensed satellite radio systems; to coordinate our satellite radio services with radio systems operating in the same range of frequencies in neighboring countries; and to coordinate our communications links to our satellites with other systems that operate in the same frequency band. Non-compliance by us with these requirements or other conditions or with other applicable FCC rules and regulations could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. There is no guarantee that Congress will not modify the statutory framework governing our services, or that the FCC will not modify its rules and regulations in a manner that would have a material impact on our operations. The terms of our licenses, the order of the FCC approving the Merger, and the consent decree we entered into with the FCC require us to meet certain conditions. We have agreed to implement a number of voluntary commitments, including programming, minority and public interest, equipment, subscription rates and other service commitments. Non-compliance with these conditions could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. The FCC has not yet issued final rules permitting us to operate and deploy terrestrial repeaters to fill gaps in our satellite coverage. We are operating our terrestrial repeaters on a “non-interference” basis pursuant to grants of special temporary authority from the FCC. The FCC’s final terrestrial repeater rules may require us to reduce the power of our terrestrial repeaters or limit our ability to deploy additional repeaters. If the FCC requires us to reduce significantly the number or power of our terrestrial repeaters, this would have an adverse effect on the quality of our service in certain markets and/or cause us to alter our terrestrial repeater infrastructure at a substantial cost. If the FCC limits our ability to deploy additional terrestrial repeaters, our ability to improve any deficiencies in our service quality that may be identified in the future would be adversely affected. Changes in consumer protection laws and their enforcement could damage our business. We engage in extensive marketing efforts to attract and retain subscribers to our service. We employ a wide variety of communications tools as part of our marketing campaigns, including print, television, radio and online advertising; telemarketing efforts; and email solicitations. The United States Federal Trade Commission, the FCC and various states agencies have responsibility for consumer protection and have jurisdiction over components of our consumer marketing efforts. Consumer protection laws, rules and regulations are extensive and have developed rapidly. Consumer protection laws in certain jurisdictions cover nearly all aspects of our marketing efforts, including the content of our advertising, the terms of consumer offers. and the manner in which we communicate with subscribers and prospective subscribers. We are engaged in considerable efforts to ensure that all our activities comply with federal and state laws, rules and regulations relating to consumer protection. Modifications to federal and state laws, rules and regulations concerning consumer protection, including decisions by federal and state courts and agencies interpreting these laws, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain subscribers to our service. While we monitor the changes in and interpretations of these laws in consumer-related settlements and decisions, and while we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws, there can be no assurances that new laws or regulations will not be enacted or adopted, or preexisting laws or regulations will not be more strictly enforced, which might adversely affect our operations. The unfavorable outcome of pending or future litigation could have a material adverse effect. We are parties to several legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of our business. We are defending all claims against us. The outcome of these proceedings may not be favorable, and an unfavorable outcome may have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Our business may be impaired by third-party intellectual property rights. Development of our system has depended upon the intellectual property that we have developed, as well as intellectual property licensed from third parties. If the intellectual property that we have developed or use is not adequately protected, others will be permitted to and may duplicate portions of our satellite radio systems or services without liability. In addition, others may challenge, invalidate, render unenforceable or circumvent our intellectual property rights, patents or existing sublicenses or we may face significant legal costs in connection with defending and enforcing those intellectual property rights. Some of the know-how and technology we have developed, and plan to develop, is not now, nor will it be, covered by U.S. patents or trade secret protections. Trade secret protection and contractual agreements may not provide adequate protection if there is any unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss of necessary technologies could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality performance standards, at greater cost or on a delayed basis, which could harm us. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications, which will later mature into patents or inventions that may block our ability to operate our system or license technologies. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights under license agreements or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights in the subject matter of those licenses. This may be expensive. Also, we may not succeed in any such litigation. 16 Table of Contents Third parties may assert claims or bring suit against us for patent, trademark or copyright infringement, or for other infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost, and diversion of effort and adverse findings in any proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; require us to seek licenses from third parties; block our ability to operate our systems or license our technology; or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and market our satellite radio system. Liberty Media Corporation has significant influence over our business and affairs and its interests may differ from ours. Liberty Media Corporation holds preferred stock that is convertible into approximately 40% of the issued and outstanding shares of SIRIUS’ common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the preferred stock held by Liberty Media, we cannot take certain actions, such as certain issuances of equity or debt securities, without the consent of Liberty Media. Additionally, Liberty Media has the right to designate six members of SIRIUS’ fifteen-member board of directors. As a result, Liberty Media has significant influence over our business and affairs. The interests of Liberty Media may differ from our interests. The extent of Liberty Media’s stock ownership in SIRIUS also may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of SIRIUS. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if SIRIUS experiences an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We have generated a federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $4 billion through the year ended December 31, 2009, and we may generate net operating loss carryforwards in future years. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If our parent company, SIRIUS, undergoes an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving SIRIUS’ common stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5% stockholders, SIRIUS’ ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards could have a negative impact on our long-term financial position and results of operations. In April 2009, SIRIUS’ board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to preserve shareholder value and the value of certain tax assets primarily associated with net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses under Section 382 of the Code. SIRIUS has agreed to submit this shareholder rights plan to a vote of its stockholders. If SIRIUS’ stockholders do not approve this shareholder rights plan prior to June 30, 2010 it will terminate in accordance with its terms. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 