Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. We cannot predict when or if the decline in demand in the domestic consumer firearms market, which began in our second fiscal quarter of 2008, will abate. The domestic consumer firearms market experienced a decline in demand beginning during our second fiscal quarter of 2008. The period was marked by an escalation of the subprime loan crisis, a tightening in the credit markets, the continued worsening of the housing market, increasing fuel prices, less than robust employment growth, and generally weak economic conditions. These factors contributed to a general slowdown of consumer spending across a wide variety of industry and product lines. Against this environment, unseasonably warm weather throughout most of the United States adversely affected the retail traffic in the sporting goods channel. At the same time, significant distribution channel purchases in anticipation of a strong hunting season resulted in excess inventory levels, which limited the ability of the distribution channel to purchase additional products. We cannot predict when or if the decline in the domestic consumer firearms market will abate. We are pursuing a new business strategy, which may not be successful. We have expanded our business objective to become a global leader in the business of safety, security, protection, and sport. This objective was designed to enable us to increase our business significantly and reduce our traditional dependence on handguns in general, and revolvers in particular, in the sporting gun market. While we have been successful in substantially expanding our pistol business in multiple markets and in entering the long-gun market with tactical rifles, hunting rifles, and shotguns, we have not yet achieved our objective. Pursuing our strategy to achieve our objective beyond firearms will require us to hire additional managerial, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, and sales employees; to introduce new products and services; to purchase additional machinery and equipment; to expand our distribution channels; to expand our customer base to include a leadership position in sales to law enforcement agencies and the military; and to engage in strategic alliances and acquisitions. We may not be able to attract and retain the additional employees we require, to introduce new products that attain significant market share, to increase our law enforcement and military business, to complete successful acquisitions or strategic alliances, or to penetrate successfully other safety, security, protection, and sport markets. We may be unable to continue to achieve gains in manufacturing productivity and capacity. A key element of our strategy is to enhance our manufacturing productivity in terms of added capacity, increased daily production quantities, increased operational availability of equipment, lower machinery down time, extension of machinery useful life, reduced overtime, increased efficiency, and enhanced product quality. The introduction of new production methods and additional machinery has resulted in significant improvements in our production. For example, we have been able to increase our average daily handgun production by 160% from December 2004 to May 2008 while improving product quality, reducing waste, and reducing overtime. The significant growth of our business, however, requires us to continue to increase our manufacturing capacity. For example, during the last two fiscal years, we have not always been able to satisfy on a timely basis the consumer demand for a some of our most popular new products, including our M&P15 tactical rifles. We plan to continue to seek gains in manufacturing efficiency and capacity. 15 Table of Contents Government settlements may adversely affect our business. We believe we are the only gun manufacturer to enter into settlement agreements with the city of Boston, the Boston Public Health Commission, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, relating to the manner of selling handguns. Adverse publicity regarding the settlement agreements resulted in a boycott by certain of our dealers and customers. A number of dealers stopped carrying our products altogether, and many long time customers began purchasing products from our competitors. Our settlement agreement with the Boston authorities was vacated on April 8, 2002, and the HUD settlement is not being enforced. The settlement agreement dated March 17, 2000 between us, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and HUD has not been formally rescinded. The HUD settlement placed substantial restrictions and obligations on the operation of our business, including restrictions on the design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of our firearm products. It was subsequently signed by two states and 11 cities and counties. As of the signing of the HUD settlement, lawsuits had been filed against us by nine of the 11 cities and counties that signed the HUD settlement. Among other terms, the HUD settlement provided that any city or county that was a party to the HUD settlement and had a lawsuit pending against us would dismiss us with prejudice from its lawsuit subject to a consent order. We do not believe that the HUD settlement is legally binding for numerous reasons, including the lack of consideration received by us for entering into the settlement. No assurance can be given, however, that our position that the HUD settlement is not legally binding would ultimately prevail in any subsequent litigation. We have received confirmation that the HUD settlement will not be enforced but have no indication that the HUD settlement will be formally rescinded. If enforced, these restrictions contained in the HUD settlement could substantially impair our ability to compete, particularly since none of our competitors is subject to such restrictions. Insurance is expensive and difficult to obtain. Insurance coverage for firearm companies, including our company, is expensive and relatively difficult to obtain. Our insurance costs were approximately $5.5 million for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. Our inability to obtain insurance, significant increases in the cost of insurance we obtain, or losses in excess of our insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face intense competition that could result in our losing or failing to gain market share and suffering reduced revenue. We operate in intensely competitive markets that are characterized by competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Any movement away from high-quality, domestic handguns to lower priced or comparable foreign alternatives would adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources and, in certain cases, may have lower cost structures than we possess and that afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, to negotiate lower prices on raw materials and components, to deliver competitive products at lower prices, and to introduce new products and respond to customer requirements more effectively and quickly than we can. Competition is primarily based on quality of products, product innovation, price, consumer brand awareness, and customer service and support. Product image, quality, and innovation are the dominant competitive factors in the firearm industry. Our licensed products and non-firearm products displayed in our catalogs and sold by our licensees or us compete based on the goodwill associated with our name and brand. A decline in the perceived quality of our firearm products, a failure to design our products to meet consumer preferences, or other circumstances adversely affecting our reputation could significantly damage our ability to sell or license those products. Our licensed products compete with numerous other licensed and non-licensed products outside the firearm market. 16 Table of Contents We depend to a great extent on the success of our independent licensees in distributing non-firearm products. It is uncertain whether the licensees we select will ultimately succeed in their respective highly competitive markets. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in designing and introducing new products; • our ability to predict the evolving requirements and desires of our customers; • the quality of our customer services; • product introductions by our competitors; and • foreign labor costs and currency fluctuations, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our products. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success. We currently produce the majority of our handguns and tactical rifles at this facility. The facility also houses our principal research, development, engineering, design, shipping, sales, accounting, finance, and management functions. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of the facility for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to produce and ship our products and to provide service to our customers. We are in the process of making certain changes in our manufacturing operations and modernizing our equipment as a result of the age of the facility and certain inefficient manufacturing processes in order to produce our anticipated volume of products in a more efficient and cost-efficient manner. We may not be successful in attaining increased production efficiencies. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs, thereby harming our operating results. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, components, and other supplies from independent sources necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the materials used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. In most cases, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we could be subject to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our suppliers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce their products that we use in our products. The time lost in seeking and acquiring new sources could hurt our net sales and profitability. We must effectively manage our growth. To remain competitive, we must make significant investments in systems, equipment, and facilities. In addition, we may commit significant funds to enhance our sales, marketing, and licensing efforts in order to expand our business. As a result of the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses, our failure to increase sufficiently our net sales to offset these increased costs would adversely affect our operating results. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operations. We have substantially increased the number of our manufacturing and design programs and plan to expand further the number and diversity of our programs in the future. Our ability to manage our planned growth effectively will require us to • enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • enhance our facilities and expand our equipment; and • successfully hire, train, and motivate additional employees, including additional personnel for our sales, marketing, and licensing efforts. The expansion and diversification of our products and customer base may result in increases in our overhead and selling expenses. We also may be required to increase staffing and other expenses as well as our expenditures on 17 Table of Contents capital equipment and leasehold improvements in order to meet the demand for our products. Any increase in expenditures in anticipation of future sales that do not materialize would adversely affect our profitability. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide funds for the expansion of our business. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such financing requirements at this time. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. Our operating results may involve significant fluctuations. Various factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • the volume of customer orders relative to our capacity; • the success of product introductions and market acceptance of new products by us and our competitors; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of future customer orders; • effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • ability to manage inventory and inventory obsolescence; • pricing and other competitive pressures; and • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any period as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and the failure to do so could impede our growth. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into strategic alliances. We continually explore strategic alliances designed to expand our product offerings, enter new markets, and improve our distribution channels. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. Our success will depend in part on our ability to make successful acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we plan to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions in order to enhance existing products and offer new products, enter new markets and businesses and enhance our current markets and business, enhance our manufacturing productivity and capacity, and capitalize on our widely known brand name. We acquired Thompson/Center Arms in January 2007. Our acquisition strategy involves significant risks. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size, and success of our acquisition efforts. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. Acquisitions also may become more difficult in the future as we or others acquire the most attractive candidates. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including the following: • diversion of management’s attention to acquisition efforts; 18 Table of Contents • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices; • the ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities; • the availability of cash resources, borrowing capacity, or stock at favorable price levels to provide required purchase prices in acquisitions; and • the ability to obtain any requisite governmental or other approvals. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with various companies regarding their potential acquisition by us. In connection with these discussions, we and each potential acquisition candidate exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the prospective acquisition candidate agrees not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time and agrees to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition, such as preparing audited financial information. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the size, timing, and success of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Consequently, our operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. In order to pursue a successful acquisition strategy, we must integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our revenue and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. Our experience in acquiring other businesses is limited. We may be unable to complete effectively the integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth, and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional revenue as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. The integration of acquired businesses involves numerous risks, including the following: • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • the potential disruption of our core businesses; • risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedure, policies, and information systems; • problems assimilating the acquired operations or products; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of the acquired business with our business; 19 Table of Contents • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company; • meeting the challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations; and • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results. We may not be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and reduce our profitability. Our growth strategy may require significant additional funds, the amount of which will depend upon the size, timing, and structure of future acquisitions and our working capital and general corporate needs. Any borrowings made to finance future acquisitions or for operations could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations, or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we finance any future acquisitions in whole or in part through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use our common stock for acquisitions will depend on the market price of our common stock from time to time and the willingness of potential sellers to accept our common stock as full or partial consideration for the sale of their businesses. Our inability to use our common stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue our acquisition program could materially limit our growth. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or obtain the right to use intellectual property from third parties could impair our competitive advantage, reduce our revenue, and increase our costs. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may provide only limited protection. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights or obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property from third parties could reduce our sales and increase our costs. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Patents may not be issued for the patent applications that we have filed or may file in the future. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. We have registered certain of our trademarks in the United States and other countries. We may be unable to enforce existing or obtain new registrations of principle or other trademarks in key markets. Failure to obtain or enforce such registrations could compromise our ability to protect fully our trademarks and brands and could increase the risk of challenge from third parties to our use of our trademarks and brands. In the past, we did not consistently require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, employment agreements, or proprietary information and invention agreements; however, such agreements are now required. Therefore, our former employees and consultants may try to claim some ownership interest in our intellectual property and may use our intellectual property competitively and without appropriate limitations. 20 Table of Contents We may incur substantial expenses and devote management resources in prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. We may become involved in litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop intellectual property that is similar or superior to our intellectual property, duplicate our intellectual property, or design around our patents and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we sell products or from which competing products may be sold. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our intellectual property and products that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may prove to be inadequate and competitors may be able to independently develop similar intellectual properties. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the market for our products. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business. In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face risks associated with international trade and currency exchange. Political and economic conditions abroad may result in a reduction of our foreign sales, as a result of the sale of our products in 50 countries; our importation of firearms from Walther, which is based in Germany; the manufacture of shotguns for us by UTAS, which is based in Turkey; and our purchase of magazines from Mec-Gar in Italy. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could reduce our ability to sell our products in foreign markets, the ability of foreign customers to purchase our products, and our ability to import firearms and parts from Walther and other foreign suppliers. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect most of our sales in U.S. dollars, a portion of our revenue results from goods that are purchased, in whole or in part, from a European supplier, in euros, thereby exposing us to some foreign exchange fluctuations. In the future, more customers or suppliers may make or require payments in non-U.S. currencies, such as the euro. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the sale of our products or the cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We do not enter into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. Our principal market risk relates to changes in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Annually, we purchase approximately $15 million of inventory from a European supplier. We expect that this will increase in the future based on our new agreement with our Turkish supplier. This exposes us to risk from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. A 10% drop in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the euro would, to the extent not covered through price adjustments, reduce our gross profit on that $15 million of inventory by approximately $1.5 million. In an effort to offset our risks from unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations, we periodically enter into euro participating forward options under which we purchase euros to be used to pay the European manufacturer. 21 Table of Contents We face risks associated with international activities. Our foreign sales of handguns, our importation of handguns from Walther, and our shotgun manufacturing alliance in Turkey create a number of logistical and communications challenges. These activities also expose us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following: • compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • limitations on imports and exports; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • the possibility of appropriation of our assets without just compensation; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel and diverse cultures; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • possible employee turnover or labor unrest; • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • political or economic instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, or limitations on imports or exports also could have a material adverse effect on us. Any actions by foreign countries to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade also could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences, could affect the attractiveness of our products to our U.S. customers. We may incur higher employee medical costs in the future. We are self-insured for our employee medical plan. The average age of our Springfield workforce is 46 years. More than 10% of our employees are over age 60. While our medical costs in recent years have generally increased at the same level as the regional average, the age of our workforce could result in higher than anticipated medical claims, resulting in an increase in our costs beyond what we have experienced. We do have stop loss coverage in place for catastrophic events, but the aggregate impact may have an effect on our profitability. Our business is seasonal. Historically, our fiscal quarter ending July 31 had been our weakest quarter, primarily as a result of customers pursuing other sporting activities outdoors with the arrival of more temperate weather and the reduced disposable income of our customers after using their tax refunds for purchases in March and April, historically our strongest months. As a result of our acquisition of Thompson/Center Arms, the degree to which summer seasonality impacts the business has lessened because the hunting industry generally prepares for the hunting season well in advance of cooler temperatures. We now expect that our fiscal quarter ending January 31 will be our weakest quarter, as sales associated with hunting sharply decline as the season winds down. This decline in net sales may result in decreases in our stock price during the late fall and early winter months. We are subject to extensive regulation. Our business, as well as the business of all producers and marketers of firearms and firearm parts, is subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and governmental regulations and protocols, including the National Firearms Act, the Federal Firearms Act, and the Gun Control Act of 1968. These laws generally prohibit the private 22 Table of Contents ownership of fully automatic weapons and place certain restrictions on the interstate sale of firearms unless certain licenses are obtained. We do not manufacture fully automatic weapons, other than for the law enforcement market, and hold all necessary licenses under these federal laws. From time to time, congressional committees consider proposed bills and various states enact laws relating to the regulation of firearms. These proposed bills and enacted state laws generally seek either to restrict or ban the sale and, in some cases, the ownership of various types of firearms. We believe we are in compliance with all such laws applicable to us and hold all necessary licenses. The regulation of firearms could become more restrictive in the future and any such restriction would harm our business. The BATF is asserting various violations by us of the Gun Control Act of 1968 and its attendant rules and regulations following an on-premises inspection of our Springfield, Massachusetts facility. These alleged violations relate to inventory, record keeping, and reporting obligations. The BATF has significant authority, including the authority to revoke our firearm importer and manufacturer licenses for willful violations. We are cooperating fully with the BATF to resolve compliance issues that may have been raised. We are currently involved in numerous lawsuits. We are currently defending lawsuits brought by various cities and counties against us and numerous other manufacturers and distributors arising out of the design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of handguns. In these lawsuits, the various governments seek to recover substantial damages, as well as various types of injunctive relief that, if granted, could affect the future design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of handguns by the defendant manufacturers and distributors. Although the defense of these lawsuits has been successful to date, we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. We, our Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer were named in three similar purported securities class action lawsuits. The complaints in these actions, which have been consolidated into one action, were brought individually and on behalf of all persons who purchased securities of our company between June 15, 2007 and December 6, 2007. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages for alleged violations of Section 10(b) and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. We plan to file a Motion to Dismiss the litigation. We are also involved in two purported stockholder derivative lawsuits in the Superior Court for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which have been consolidated, and another purported derivative action brought in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada, which has been stayed pending the Massachusetts action. Each of the actions was brought by plaintiffs on behalf of our company against certain of our officers and directors. The complaints seek to assert state law claims, including alleged breach of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment arising from our earnings guidance in June 2007 and September 2007, our reduction of earnings guidance in October 2007 and December 2007, our decision in January 2008 to suspend further guidance and not confirm prior guidance until certain market conditions settled, and certain sales of our stock. The putative plaintiffs seek unspecified damages on behalf of our company from the individual defendants. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these class action and derivative lawsuits. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not have to pay significant damages or amounts in settlement above insurance coverage. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation could harm our business. Litigation of this nature also is expensive and time consuming and diverts the time and attention of our management. The ongoing SEC investigation could result in additional costs, monetary penalties, and injunctive relief. The SEC has been conducting an investigation to determine whether there were violations of the federal securities laws in connection with matters relating to the restatement more than three years ago of our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2002 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2003. We have incurred legal costs for our company as well as for several of our current and former officers as a result of reimbursement obligations. Although we have fully cooperated with the SEC in the investigation, the investigation involves the possibility that the SEC could determine that we have violated the federal securities laws. Such a determination could result in sanctions, including mandatory penalties and injunctive relief. 23 Table of Contents On May 8, 2008, we received notice that it is the intent of the Division of Enforcement Staff of the SEC to recommend that the SEC authorize administrative cease-and-desist proceedings against us to prohibit any future violations of the periodic reporting, record keeping, and internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws. The Staff is not recommending the imposition of any monetary sanctions or remedies against us. The purported violations arose from accounting adjustments made by us for fiscal 2002 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2003, which resulted in our restatement of our 2002 quarterly and fiscal year-end financial statements, and our quarterly report for the period ended January 31, 2003. We do not believe that the Staff’s current recommendation, if ultimately authorized by the SEC, will have any material impact on our financial position. Environmental laws and regulations may impact our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws that regulate or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA. CERCLA, RCRA, and related state laws subject us to the potential obligation to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of certain pollutants at our manufacturing facilities and at third-party or formerly owned sites at which contaminants generated by us may be located. This requires us to make expenditures of both a capital and expense nature. In our efforts to satisfy our environmental responsibilities and to comply with environmental laws and regulations, we maintain policies relating to the environmental standards of performance for our operations, and conduct programs to monitor compliance with various environmental regulations. However, in the normal course of our manufacturing operations, we may become subject to governmental proceedings and orders pertaining to waste disposal, air emissions, and water discharges into the environment. We believe that we are generally in compliance with applicable environmental regulations. We may not have identified all existing contamination on our properties, including the property associated with our Thompson/Center Arms acquisition in January 2007, and we cannot predict whether our operations will cause contamination in the future. As a result, we could incur additional material costs to clean up contamination that exceed the amount of our reserves and escrows. We will periodically review the probable and reasonably estimable environmental costs in order to update the environmental reserves. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict with certainty the impact on us of future environmental compliance requirements or of the cost of resolution of future environmental proceedings and claims, in part because the scope of the remedies that may be required is not certain, liability under federal environmental laws is joint and several in nature, and environmental laws and regulations are subject to modification and changes in interpretation. Additional or changing environmental regulation may become burdensome in the future, and any such development could have a material adverse effect on us. We increased our leverage as a result of the sale of senior convertible notes. As a result of the sale in December 2006 of 4% Senior Convertible Notes due in 2026, we incurred $80 million of indebtedness. As a result of this indebtedness, our interest payment obligations have increased. Our interest payment obligation on the notes is $3.2 million annually. The degree to which we are now leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain further financing for working capital, acquisitions, or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy significant debt service obligations. As of April 30, 2008, our consolidated long-term indebtedness was approximately $118.8 million. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be 24 Table of Contents used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; • limiting, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • having a material adverse effect on our business if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, because such failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all or a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash. To a certain extent, our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity. Under the terms of the indenture governing our senior convertible notes, we are limited in our ability to incur future indebtedness until certain conditions are met. Under the terms of the indenture governing our senior convertible notes, we agreed to a limitation on the incurrence of debt by us and our subsidiaries. Until such time as the closing price of our common stock has exceeded 200% of the conversion price of the notes for at least 30 trading days during any period of 40 consecutive trading days, we may not, directly or indirectly, incur debt in excess of designated amounts. This limitation affects our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, including the ability to finance potential acquisitions. If we are unable to make additional borrowings as a result of this limitation, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not have the funds necessary to repay the senior convertible notes at maturity or purchase the notes at the option of the noteholders or upon a fundamental change as required by the indenture governing the notes. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the senior convertible notes will become due and payable by us. In addition, on December 15, 2011, December 15, 2016, and December 15, 2021, holders of the notes may require us to purchase their notes for cash. Noteholders may also require us to purchase their notes for cash upon a fundamental change as described in the indenture governing the notes. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to repay or repurchase the notes when required. No sinking fund is provided for the notes. Our charter documents and Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and discourage a takeover. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Nevada law make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and make a takeover more difficult to complete, even if such a transaction were in the stockholders’ interest or might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. 25 Table of Contents Our stockholders’ rights plan may adversely affect existing stockholders. Our stockholders’ rights plan may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In general and subject to certain exceptions as to existing major stockholders, stock purchase rights issued under the plan become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer or exchange offer of 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After any such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our Board of Directors since the rights may be redeemed by us at $0.01 per stock purchase right at any time before any person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights expire in August 2015. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the legal power and authority to determine the terms of an offering of shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for these shares, to the extent of our shares of authorized and unissued capital stock. Sale of a substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of April 30, 2008, there were outstanding 40,632,039 shares of our common stock. Substantially all of these shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities laws, unless held by an “affiliate” of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the securities laws. Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, officers, and certain principal stockholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 described below. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144, who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and that non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices. As of April 30, 2008, we had outstanding options to purchase 2,247,262 shares of common stock under our stock option plans and other option agreements and 560,418 undelivered restricted stock units under our stock option plans, and we had issued 986,063 of the 10,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan. As of April 30, 2008, we also had outstanding warrants to purchase 70,000 shares of common stock. We have registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to our stock option plans and available for issuance pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan as well as the shares underlying the warrants. Shares covered by such registration statements upon the exercise of stock options or warrants or pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan generally will be eligible for sale in the public 26 Table of Contents market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Conversion of our senior convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of our senior convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. If holders of our senior convertible notes elect to convert their notes and sell material amounts of our common stock in the market, such sales could cause the price of our common stock to decline, and such downward pressure on the price of our common stock may encourage short selling of our common stock by holders of our senior convertible notes or others. To the extent that holders of our senior convertible notes elect to convert the notes into shares of our common stock and sell material amounts of those shares in the market, our stock price may decrease as a result of the additional amount of shares available on the market. The subsequent sales of these shares could encourage short sales by holders of senior convertible notes and others, placing further downward pressure on our stock price. If there is significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock, it may encourage holders of senior convertible notes or others to sell shares by means of short sales to the extent permitted under the U.S. securities laws. Short sales involve the sale by a holder of notes, usually with a future delivery date, of common stock the seller does not own. Covered short sales are sales made in an amount not greater than the number of shares subject to the short seller’s right to acquire common stock, such as upon conversion of notes. A holder of notes may close out any covered short position by converting its notes or purchasing shares in the open market. In determining the source of shares to close out the covered short position, a holder of notes will likely consider, among other things, the price of common stock available for purchase in the open market as compared to the conversion price of the notes. The existence of a significant number of short sales generally causes the price of common stock to decline, in part because it indicates that a number of market participants are taking a position that will be profitable only if the price of the common stock declines. We may issue securities that could dilute your ownership and the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to us. We may delay, limit, or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. We may also issue equity securities as consideration for acquisitions we may make. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many factors. Many factors could affect the trading price of our common stock, including the following: • variations in our operating results; • the relatively small public float of our common stock; • introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • the success of our distributors; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; 27 Table of Contents • general economic, political, and market conditions; • governmental policies and regulations; • the performance of the firearm industry in general; and • factors relating to suppliers and competitors. In addition, market demand for small-capitalization stocks, and price and volume fluctuations in the stock market unrelated to our performance, could result in significant fluctuations in market price of our common stock. The performance of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise equity in the public markets and adversely affect the growth of our business. We do not pay cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Moreover, financial covenants under certain of our credit facilities, as well as under the indenture covering our senior convertible notes, restrict our ability to pay dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 