ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. Our results may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in the telecommunications industry and the economy in general. We expect industry and economic conditions to affect our business in many ways, including the following: • our current and prospective customers may make limited capital expenditures; • consolidation of or other strategic transactions by our customers may cause delays, disruptions or reductions in their capital spending plans as well as increase their relative purchasing power in any negotiation; • we will continue to have limited ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales; • we will experience a continuing high level of competition as a result of limited demand which may cause downward pressure on the pricing of our products resulting in reduced gross margins and constrained revenue growth; • many of our competitors have broader product lines than we do, which allows them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively; • new competitive entrants may be located in geographies with lower cost structures than ours allowing them a greater degree of price flexibility; • we will need to continue to balance our initiatives to manage our operating costs against the need to keep pace with technological advances; • the convergence of service provider network architectures on more common and undifferentiated solutions versus technical innovation may create new competitive challenges; • intense competition may enable customers to demand more favorable terms and conditions of sales including extended payment terms; and • any bankruptcies or weakening financial condition of any of our customers may require us to write off amounts due from prior sales. Any of these factors alone or in combination could have an adverse impact on our revenue, operating results and financial condition. Our business will continue to rely on sales of our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products and services for a significant portion of our revenue, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer if demand for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products significantly declines. We currently derive all of our revenue from sales of products and services related to our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products, which include our optical switching and multiservice access products. Revenues for these products, and in particular for our optical switching products, have declined in recent years, and we believe the portion of the bandwidth management market that we serve is in secular decline. Accordingly, our investments in this part of our business have been, and remain, focused primarily on sustaining engineering efforts, including targeted, incremental feature development tied to tangible revenue opportunities. Despite challenging market conditions and limited opportunities for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products, we expect these products will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the near term, and continued customer acceptance of these products is therefore critical to our success. As a result, factors adversely 9 Table of Contents affecting the pricing of, or demand for, these products could cause a significant decrease in our revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • our decision not to focus our investments on the development of next-generation bandwidth management and access platforms for service providers; • perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our Intelligent Bandwidth Management business; • the adoption of, or shifts to, new network architectures or industry standards by customers; • the development of more advanced technologies or additional features by competitors; • a decision by the Company not to develop certain features or enhancements requested by current or prospective customers, or to discontinue certain products or divest our interests in certain product lines; • the loss of key employees with essential knowledge; and • difficulties associated with obtaining component parts for the products. Any of these factors alone or in combination could result in a significant reduction in orders from our customers or the loss of existing or prospective customers, which could materially reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and financial condition may suffer if IQstream fails to achieve market acceptance. Customer trials for IQstream, our Mobile Broadband Optimization solution, remain ongoing. Our trial activities to date have been useful in demonstrating IQstream’s core platform capabilities. However, the pace of market acceptance remains slower than anticipated due to extended product evaluation timeframes, mobile operators’ heightened interest in a more integrated, end-to-end mobile optimization strategy and competitive pricing pressure from providers of traditional backhaul bandwidth services. As a result, we have not yet recognized any revenue for these products. The success of IQstream is dependent on acceptance by mobile operators. There can be no assurance that mobile operators will order and commercially deploy IQstream or that IQstream will receive sufficient customer acceptance. If the market for IQstream does not develop and grow substantially, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Further, even if IQstream initially obtains market acceptance, we may not be able to effectively enhance or support the product or successfully respond on a timely basis to products introduced into the marketplace by competitors. If our IQstream solution does not perform as expected, does not integrate properly with customer networks, or does not contain the capabilities and features required by our customers, our solution may not become widely accepted and we may not be able to sell IQstream profitably or in any significant volume. Other factors that could negatively impact the value proposition for or applicability of IQstream include, but are not limited, to: • the emergence of new, lower cost backhaul services or products in the market; • the adoption of new network architectures by mobile operators; • changes to mobile network security architectures and standards; and • the adoption and rapid dissemination of new content coding schemes by content providers. Any of these factors alone or in combination could adversely affect the timing or level of market acceptance for IQstream. The failure of IQstream to be accepted by, or compete effectively in, the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. If we experience further delays in the development, deployment or market acceptance of IQstream, we may miss an emerging market opportunity and our operating results may suffer. We announced the introduction of IQstream in the fourth quarter of fiscal of 2010. We have experienced delays in the development of IQstream and the evaluation process for IQstream by mobile operators has taken substantially longer than anticipated. Given the extended trial process to date for IQstream, there can be no 10 Table of Contents assurance that we will be able to market or sell our IQstream solution in a timely manner. Service providers have been relatively slow to deploy new, complex products in their networks, and the sales cycle for these products tends to be long and unpredictable due to the lengthy customer evaluation and approval process required before products can be deployed in operators’ networks. In addition, the deployment of new products by operators is often subject to the readiness and performance of the operator and its vendors, as well as evolving operator requirements and changes in their capital spending plans. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into, and no control over, the pace at which mobile operators will adopt our IQstream solution in their networks, if at all. In addition, our ability to realize revenue from IQstream depends on, among other things, our ability to meet our product development goals and successfully complete lab and field tests with prospective customers. We may encounter technical or other problems in connection with the further development of IQstream that could result in delayed deployment of, or inability to introduce, IQstream into operators’ networks. Development and deployment delays could result from numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • unanticipated engineering difficulties; • the timing and level of research and development expenses; • changing market or competitive product requirements; • stringent and/or unique technical requirements of customers; • failure of our suppliers to meet our technical and commercial requirements; • difficulties associated with obtaining component parts for the products; • integration and interoperability challenges; and • claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property. Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if customers delay purchases, or if acceptance of IQstream continues to be slower than expected, or to a lesser degree than expected, if at all. Any further delays in the development, testing, marketing, customer acceptance or deployment of IQstream could result in such products missing an emerging market opportunity. We may experience difficulties identifying, analyzing or consummating strategic alternatives, and any such alternatives may not achieve desired results. In light of conditions affecting our businesses, we have intensified our pursuit of strategic alternatives. These alternatives include: asset sales or other business combination transactions, the discontinuation of products or product lines and recapitalization alternatives, such as cash distributions. The pursuit of strategic alternatives for our businesses may disrupt operations and distract management, and create uncertainties regarding the future direction of our business or products, which could result in the loss of actual or potential customers, employees or business partners. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to identify suitable third parties for any such strategic transactions. Even if we identify suitable third parties, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or consummate a transaction. Furthermore, the pursuit of any such transaction may require the expenditure of substantial legal and other fees, which may by incurred whether or not a transaction is consummated. If we are unable to identify suitable third parties for strategic transactions, we may decide to discontinue certain products or product lines, or otherwise exit all or certain portions of our business. If we divest or otherwise exit certain portions of our business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We also may incur certain liabilities and costs in connection with any divestiture or discontinuation of products or product lines, such as workforce reduction costs, costs associated with closing excess facilities and disposing of or writing off excess inventory and equipment, and contract termination costs. Any decision we make regarding our strategic alternatives will necessarily involve risks and uncertainties and present challenges in implementation and integration. As a result, pursuit of any such alternatives may not lead to increased stockholder value and, whether or not we pursue any strategic alternatives, the value of our shares may decrease. 11 Table of Contents Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have previously taken steps, including workforce reductions, facilities consolidations, office closures and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost structure of our operations to better align our resources with market opportunities. We cannot provide assurance that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses or products. Any decision to further limit investment in, or to exit, or dispose of businesses may result in additional costs and the recording of additional charges. We also cannot predict whether any future restructuring or streamlining of operations will adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, the loss of which, in turn, could adversely affect the execution of our strategy and therefore our operating results. If we cannot effectively manage our cost structure in line with our investment in growth opportunities, we may fail to meet strategic and market expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must continue to effectively manage our investments in product development in both existing and new markets for our products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent introductions of new products and evolving customer requirements. Customers continuously demand new features for existing products as well as new technologies and solutions. Due to challenging market conditions and limited opportunities for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products, we determined not to focus our investments on the development of next-generation bandwidth management platforms for service providers, and our research and development efforts in this area of our business remain focused on supporting customers with sustaining engineering efforts, including targeted, incremental feature development tied to tangible revenue opportunities. As a result, we may fail to develop, or choose not to develop, new features or products requested by current and prospective customers. In addition, reduced demand for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products and/or competitive pressures may cause us to alter our investment in, or discontinue or divest our interests in certain products or product lines. Such actions could have an adverse impact on our future revenue and results of operations. Managing our efforts to keep pace with new technologies and reduce operating expense is difficult and there is no assurance that we will be successful. We also have made significant investments in our IQstream solution and expect that any decision to continue our marketing and development efforts with respect to IQstream would require significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which would be incurred before any significant revenue related to the products is realized, if at all. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance and realize significant revenues from IQstream, or if we fail to generate sufficient revenue from our other products and services, we may not be able to recover certain costs and may incur significant losses which could impact the strategic direction of our business. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain operating profitability. Intense competition could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Competition for limited bandwidth management opportunities is intense and continues to be dominated by large, incumbent equipment suppliers. Competition is generally based upon a combination of price, established customer relationships, broad product portfolios, large service and support teams, technology, functionality and scalability. Large companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena, Huawei, Ericsson, and Tellabs have historically dominated the bandwidth management market and may be in a better position to take advantage of the trend among larger service providers to reduce the number of communications suppliers in their networks. Many of our competitors in this market have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do and are able to devote greater resources to research and development of new products. Most of these competitors also have long-standing existing relationships with our current and prospective customers and often deploy aggressive pricing tactics in order to compete with our products. Our competitors, both large and small, may develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products less desirable or even obsolete. Moreover, many of these competitors have more diverse product lines which allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively. 12 Table of Contents Competition in the mobile broadband optimization market varies depending on which segment of the mobile network the products serve. Competition in the backhaul segment of the network, where Sycamore’s IQstream solution is targeted, largely consists of alternative technologies and services focused on increasing capacity rather than solutions designed to optimize and reduce content traversing the backhaul. These alternative technologies include fiber optic transmission, Internet offloading, pseudo-wire, traditional leased lines, Ethernet private lines and high capacity mesh or point-to-point microwave. Competition from alternative solutions such as traditional and new backhaul bandwidth services includes competitive pricing pressure from providers of such services. In addition, widespread and increasing adoption of open industry standards and the presence of large, incumbent equipment suppliers in service provider networks may make it easier for providers of alternative or complementary technologies to introduce new products or add features to existing products that compete directly with IQstream. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in this market or capture meaningful market share, and our business could be harmed if competitors introduce products and services that provide greater performance, offer additional features and functionality or are more reliable or less expensive than our IQstream solution. As a result of intense competition in the markets we serve, we expect to encounter competitive tactics such as the following: • price discounting; • early announcements of competing products and other marketing efforts; • customer financing assistance; • complete solution sales from one single source; • bundling multi-vendor solution integration services with turnkey network operating service offerings; • integration of similar feature capabilities into existing network elements; • adoption of new content encoding schemes by content providers that diminish the role of network based optimization solutions; • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property infringement allegations. These tactics may be effective in a highly concentrated customer base like ours. Our customers are under increasing pressure to deliver their services at the lowest possible cost. As a result, product pricing is an important factor in customer decisions. In certain cases, our larger competitors have greater scale and more diverse product lines that allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively and absorb the significant cost structure associated with research and development across their entire business. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the average selling price of our products by a reduction in the cost of our products, our gross margins will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience revenue reductions, order cancellations, lost customer opportunities and reduced gross margins, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our business. The communications industry has experienced significant consolidation and we expect this trend to continue. Over the past several years, a number of larger communications service providers and network equipment suppliers have completed merger transactions which have had a significant impact on the telecommunications industry. Such consolidation among our customers may cause delays or reductions in their capital expenditure plans and may cause increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available 13 Table of Contents customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Consolidation may also result in service providers substantially reducing the number of suppliers in their networks or choosing to standardize on a certain vendor’s networking platform. In addition, consolidation among network equipment suppliers may result in stronger competitors and a change in our relative market position. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business. We expect a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be generated from a limited number of customers. A significant portion of our revenue is, and we expect will continue to be, generated from a limited number of customers. The loss of any one of these customers or any substantial reduction in orders by any one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. None of our customers are contractually committed to purchase any minimum quantities of products from us and orders are generally cancelable prior to shipment. In addition, we believe that consolidation in the communications industry will continue, which may further reduce the number of prospective customers, slow purchases and delay network deployment decisions. We also utilize channel relationships with distribution partners including resellers, distributors and systems integrators for the sale of our products to service providers, including government entities and utility operators. We have entered into agreements with several distribution partners, some of which also sell products that compete with our products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain or attract distribution partners on a timely basis or at all, or that the distribution partners will devote adequate resources to selling our products. If we are unable to develop and manage new channels of distribution to sell our products to service providers, or if our distribution partners are unable to convince service providers to deploy our networking solutions, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Through our resellers, we generate a portion of our revenue from government entities and the loss or decline of existing or future government entity funding could adversely affect our revenue and cash flows. These government entities may be subject to budget cuts, budgetary constraints, a discontinuation of funding or changes in the political or regulatory environment that may cause the entities to terminate projects, divert funds or delay implementation or expansion. A significant reduction or delay in orders by one or more of these entities could materially reduce our revenue and cash flows. As with most government contracts, these entities may terminate the contracts at any time without cause. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government entities. If the results of these audits or investigations are negative, our reputation could be damaged, contracts could be terminated or significant penalties could be assessed. If a contract is terminated for any reason, our ability to fully recover certain amounts may be impaired resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain current and prospective customers may have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may negatively impact our results of operations. Our current and prospective customers include large communications service providers, key resellers and government entities who have substantial purchasing power and, as a result, may have significant leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. The decision by current and prospective customers to purchase our products typically involves a lengthy sales cycle with a significant evaluation and qualification process, a protracted consultation and contract negotiation process, as well as extensive product testing for interoperability and network customization. As we seek to do business with certain customers, and in particular with prospective customers of our IQstream solution, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are unfavorable in the near term in order to consummate a sale. Such terms, which may include (i) pricing concessions, (ii) commitments to develop additional features, (iii) penalty clauses, or (iv) other terms and conditions which may affect the timing of revenue recognition, could negatively affect our revenue potential and increase our 14 Table of Contents susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our results. Service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest, or that would not be profitable in the long term. The failure of prospective customers to purchase our mobile broadband optimization solutions, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, we may continue to spend considerable resources that we may not be able to offset with corresponding revenue. We may experience risks in our investments due to changes in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. As of July 31, 2012, we had $136.7 million in cash and cash equivalents plus $302.7 million in short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities which may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are subject to interest rate risk and may decline in value if market interest rates increase. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Current economic and market conditions make forecasting difficult. Current economic and market conditions, together with the inherent inconsistent and unpredictable ordering patterns of our customers, have limited our ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales, making it difficult to provide estimates of revenue and operating results. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results. If our revenue and operating results are below the expectations of our investors and market analysts, it could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect our common stock price. In general, our revenue and operating results in any reporting period may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • fluctuation in demand for our products; • the timing, volume and product mix of sales of our products; • changes in customer requirements, including delays or order cancellations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • the level of market acceptance of our new products and services by customers; • changes in the price or availability of components for our products; • the timing of revenue recognition and deferred revenue; • readiness of customer sites for installation; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria and related revenue recognition issues; • manufacturing and shipment delays; and • general economic conditions as well as those specific to the telecommunications and related industries. 15 Table of Contents We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. The factors discussed above are extremely difficult to predict and impact our revenue and operating results. In addition, our ability to forecast our future business has been significantly impaired by economic and market conditions. As a result, we believe that our revenue and operating results are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Customer purchase decisions have historically taken a long period of time. We believe that some customers who make a decision to deploy our products will expand their networks slowly and deliberately. In addition, we could receive purchase orders on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of the nature of our business, we cannot predict these sales and deployment cycles. The long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers may tend to issue large purchase orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our future operating results may be below our expectations or those of public market analysts and investors, and our revenue may decline or recover at a slower rate than anticipated by us or analysts and investors. In either event, the price of our common stock could decrease. We utilize contract manufacturers to supply our products, and any disruption in these relationships may cause us to fail to meet our customers’ demands and may damage our customer relationships. We have limited internal manufacturing capabilities. We outsource the manufacturing of our proprietary products to contract manufacturers who manufacture our products in accordance with our specifications and fill orders on a timely basis. We may not be able to manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers effectively, and our contract manufacturers may not meet our future requirements for quality or timely delivery. Our contract manufacturers also build products for other companies, and we cannot be assured that they will have sufficient quantities of inventory available to fill our customer orders or that they will allocate their internal resources or capacity to fill our orders on a timely basis. Un-forecasted customer demand may increase the cost to build our products due to fees charged to expedite production and other related charges. Alternatively, reduced product purchases from our contract manufacturers due to a decline in customer demand could lead them to charge us higher prices to fill all or certain orders. The contract manufacturing industry is a highly competitive, capital-intensive business with relatively low profit margins, and in which acquisition or merger activity is relatively common. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer or new facility and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming, and could result in a significant interruption in the supply and/or quality of our products. If we are required or choose to change contract manufacturers for any reason, our revenue, gross margins and customer relationships could be adversely affected. We and our product suppliers typically rely on single or limited sources for supply of certain components and our business may be seriously harmed if the availability of supply of any of these components is disrupted. We and our product suppliers purchase several key components from single or limited sources. We generally purchase our key components on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts for these components. In the event of a disruption in supply of key components including, but not limited to, production disruptions, low yield or discontinuance of manufacture, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. Any such failure could impair our ability to deliver products to customers or require us to purchase additional excess inventory, which would adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In addition, our reliance on key component suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties or quality variations. The loss of a source of supply for key components or a disruption in the supply chain could 16 Table of Contents require us to incur additional costs to redesign products that use those components or cause us to end-of-life or discontinue those products. Also, electronic products are experiencing shorter product life cycles which may require us to build inventories to forecasted sales demand rather than to order levels. During the past several years, component suppliers have planned their production capacity to better match demand. If the demand for certain components increases beyond the component supplier’s planned production capacity, there may be component shortages which may increase procurement costs. In addition, consolidation in the component industry could result in reduced competition for supply of key components and higher component prices. If any of these events occurred, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to anticipate inventory requirements may result in inventory charges or delays in product shipments. During the normal course of business, we may provide purchase orders to our contract manufacturers for up to six months prior to scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our product requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess cancellation penalties or we may have excess inventory which could negatively impact our gross margins. If we underestimate our product requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory that could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipment to our customers. We also could incur additional charges to expedite the manufacture of our products to meet our customer deployment schedules. If we over or underestimate our product requirements, our revenue and gross profit may be impacted. Product performance problems could adversely affect our revenue, operating results and financial condition. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance or reliability requirements, our relationships with current and prospective customers may be adversely affected. The design, development and deployment of our products often involve problems with software, components, manufacturing processes and interoperability with other network elements. If we are unable to identify and fix errors or other problems, or if our customers experience interruptions or delays that cannot be promptly resolved, we could experience: • loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition or accounts receivable collection; • loss of customers and market share; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and other resources; • delays in response to other customer issues or new product development; • increased service, warranty and insurance costs; and • legal actions by our customers. These factors may adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our products are often critical to the performance of our customers’ networks. Generally, we seek to limit liability in our customer agreements. If we are not successful in limiting our liability, or these contractual limitations are not enforceable or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a successful claim could harm our business. The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. International sales have historically represented a significant amount of our total sales including 21% of total revenue for fiscal 2012 and 33% of total revenue for fiscal 2011. We have a substantial international customer base and we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk to the extent that our revenue is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Doing business internationally requires significant 17 Table of Contents management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect sales channels and to support customers in geographically diverse markets. In addition, we have a research and development facility in Shanghai, China, which conducts a significant amount of our research and development activities. We may not be able to maintain or expand international market demand for our products. In addition, our business derived from international operations is subject to inherent risks, including: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and conducting foreign operations in compliance with local laws and customs; • reliance on distribution partners for the resale of our products in certain markets and for certain types of product offerings, such as the integration of our products into third-party product offerings; • the need to work with third parties in certain countries to perform installation and obtain customer acceptance may impact the timing of revenue recognition; • the need to maintain staffing, or to work with third parties, to provide service and support in international locations; • the impact of slowdowns, recessions or other economic disruptions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including trade and environmental protection measures and import and licensing requirements; • obtaining export licensing authority on a timely basis and maintaining ongoing compliance with import, export and re-export regulations; • certification requirements; • currency fluctuations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability, particularly in emerging markets. These factors may adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition. Environmental regulations could harm our operating results. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products such as, but not limited to, the European Union Directive entitled, “The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment”. Environmental laws and regulations can vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and often make producers financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and ultimate disposal of their products. We will need to ensure that we comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulations. If we are not in compliance with such legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may be unable to ship products to certain markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and we could also be subject to governmental fines, penalties and liability to our customers if we were found to be in violation of these laws. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with 18 Table of Contents environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant capital expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. Additionally, we could be forced to write off inventory that is found not to be compliant with evolving environmental regulations. If we are unable to retain and recruit key personnel, our business may be harmed. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel, who have critical industry knowledge, experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business strategy, many of whom would be difficult to replace. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies or similar perquisites covering any of our employees. Virtually all of our key employees have been granted share-based awards that are intended to represent an integral component of their compensation package. These share-based awards may not provide the intended incentive to our employees if our stock price fails to appreciate, experiences significant volatility or if a failure to make our SEC filings on a timely basis prevents our employees from receiving or exercising stock options. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring qualified personnel could delay the development or performance of our products, and negatively impact our ability to sell and support our products. Adverse resolution of disputes, litigation and claims may harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We are currently a nominal defendant in a derivative lawsuit and may become a party to other litigation, disputes and claims in the normal course of our business. The highly technical nature of our products makes them susceptible to allegations of patent infringement. Litigation is by its nature uncertain and unpredictable and there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of such claims will not exceed the amounts accrued for such claims, if any. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of a legal matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits and other disputes in which we are involved, see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. Our ability to compete and pursue strategic alternatives could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or are determined to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners and control access to and distribution of our products, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, United States patent laws may not effectively protect our proprietary rights at the outset due to the lengthy process required to obtain a patent. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete and pursue strategic alternatives effectively could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could be lengthy and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In the course of our business, we may receive 19 Table of Contents claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies in our products. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would require us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, manufacturers or suppliers against the alleged infringement. Regardless of their merit, these claims could result in costly litigation and subject us to the risk of significant liability for damages. Such claims would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve, would divert management time and attention and would put us at risk to: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign those products that use such technology; or • accept a return of products that use such technologies. If we are forced to take one or more of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. In addition, we license public domain software and proprietary technology from third parties for use in our existing products, as well as new product development and enhancements. We cannot be assured that such licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if at all. The inability to maintain or obtain any such license required for our current or future products and enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products. Adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our results. We are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provisions. While we believe that we have adequately provided for our tax liabilities, it is possible that the amount paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amount provided. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts owed by us are recorded in the period they become known. The ultimate outcome of these tax contingencies could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryovers could be subject to significant limitations pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company has significant federal and state net operating loss and tax credit carryovers. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses may be subject to limitations pursuant to the ownership change rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended. The occurrence of ownership changes, as defined in Section 382, is not controlled by the Company, and could significantly limit the amount of net operating loss carryovers and research and development credits that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income. Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The occurrence of any one or more of 20 Table of Contents the factors noted above could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. In addition, the following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate: • loss of a major customer; • significant changes or slowdowns in the funding and spending patterns of our current and prospective customers; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements; • failure of our products to achieve market acceptance, or failure by us to meet product milestones; • announcements by us of the sale, divestiture, end-of-life or discontinuation of certain products or product lines; • regulatory changes in telecommunications; • variations between our actual results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the future; • changes in market valuations of networking and telecommunications companies; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; and • announcements or implementation of capital restructurings, such as significant cash distributions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Significant insider ownership, provisions of our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law may limit stockholders’ ability to influence key transactions, including changes of control. As of July 31, 2012, our officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to certain stockholders. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 