ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict the timing, amount or nature of any future distributions to our stockholders. Under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”), the Dissolution period and the Company’s corporate existence will continue for at least three years from the date we filed the Certificate of Dissolution. Subject to uncertainties inherent in the winding up of our business, we expect to make a liquidating distribution as promptly as practicable after payment of, or provision for, outstanding claims. No assurances can be made as to the ultimate amounts to be distributed or the timing of any liquidating distributions. This uncertainty primarily stems from the procedures established under Delaware law for the dissolution of a Delaware corporation. Delaware law permits creditors and other claimants to assert claims against us, and it could take an undefined amount of time to resolve these claims. Also, under Delaware law, before a dissolved corporation may make any liquidating distributions to its stockholders, it must pay or make reasonable provision to pay all of its claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional or un-matured claims known to the corporation. Liquidating distributions also could be delayed if the Board determines that it is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders to effectuate the Dissolution in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL as opposed to those prescribed by Section 281(b) of the DGCL. The procedures of Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL would require that any distribution be subject to prior completion of proceedings in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The Plan of Dissolution provides for the Dissolution to be effected pursuant to Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL, but allows the Company to elect to effect the Dissolution pursuant to Section 281(b) of the DGCL. Although we have initiated the Dissolution pursuant to Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL, the Plan of Dissolution allows the Company to later elect to complete the Dissolution pursuant to Section 281(b) of the DGCL. Any final liquidating distributions could also be delayed due to other factors, including, without limitation: • if we become a party to lawsuits or other claims asserted by or against us, including any claims or litigation arising in connection with our decision to liquidate and dissolve or with respect to our indemnification or other obligations under the Asset Sale Agreement; • if we are unable to liquidate our remaining non-cash assets, or such liquidation takes longer than expected; • if we are unable to resolve any claims with creditors or third parties, or if such resolutions take longer than expected; or • if we are unable to obtain relief from the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Any of the foregoing could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, under the DGCL, certain claims and demands may be asserted against us at any time during the three year period. Accordingly, we may retain funds to maintain insurance coverage or establish and set aside a reasonable amount of cash or other asserts as a contingency reserve to satisfy claims against and obligations of the Company that may arise during the wind down period. As a result of these factors, we may retain for distribution at a later date some or all of the estimated amounts that we expect to distribute to our stockholders. The amount available for distribution to our stockholders could be reduced if our expectations regarding our wind down costs are inaccurate. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as administrative costs, salaries, directors’ and officers’ insurance, federal and state income taxes, business and local taxes, legal and accounting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred as we seek to wind down our business. Our expectations regarding our expenses may be inaccurate. Any unexpected claims, liabilities or expenses, or any claims, liabilities or expenses that exceed our current estimates, could reduce the amount of cash available for ultimate distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may experience claims pursuant to our indemnification or other obligations under the Asset Sale Agreement, and payments to resolve those claims could be significant. Any such payments will reduce the assets available for distribution to our stockholders. If available cash and amounts received in sales of our remaining assets together with any cash on hand are not adequate to provide for our obligations, liabilities, expenses and claims, we may not be able to make any liquidating distributions to our stockholders. 5 Table of Contents We have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs to enforce our rights under the Asset Sale Agreement. On April 22, 2013, the Company filed a complaint in the Complex Commercial Litigation Division of the Superior Court of the State of Delaware against Buyer, Marlin Executive Fund III, L.P. and Marlin Equity III, L.P. (collectively with Buyer, the “Marlin Parties”) in connection with the Asset Sale. The complaint asserted claims for breach of contract against the Marlin Parties and for declaratory judgment against Buyer for certain amounts due to the Company under the Asset Sale Agreement and certain agreements related thereto. On May 28, 2013, the Company and the Marlin Parties reached an agreement pursuant to which Buyer paid the Company an aggregate amount of approximately $1.7 million, comprising (i) the undisputed amount owed with respect to the Company’s operation of Sycamore Networks (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. (“Sycamore Shanghai”) during the period between the closing of the Asset Sale and the transfer of Sycamore Shanghai to Buyer and (ii) the undisputed portion of the working capital adjustment. In connection with such agreement, the Company and the Marlin Parties have jointly selected a Neutral Accountant (as defined in the Asset Sale Agreement) to determine the remaining issues reflecting amounts in dispute of approximately $1.4 million. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs in connection with pursuing these claims and otherwise enforcing our rights under the Asset Sale Agreement, which may reduce the amount available for distribution to our shareholders. For additional information concerning this matter, see Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies.” We may experience difficulties identifying, analyzing or consummating alternatives with respect to the IQstream Business and our remaining non-cash assets, and any such alternatives may not achieve desired results. The Company’s primary non-cash assets consist of its intellectual property and other assets relating to the IQstream Business, patents and patent applications related to or used in the Intelligent Bandwidth Management Business, our real estate holdings in Tyngsborough, Massachusetts, our investments in private companies and certain other assets that were not sold to Buyer in the Asset Sale. While we continue to pursue the sale or monetization of these assets in accordance with the Plan of Dissolution, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully sell these assets. On September 5, 2013, the Company terminated an agreement to sell approximately 102 acres of undeveloped land located in Tyngsborough, Massachusetts to Tyngsborough Commons for a total purchase price of $3.5 million due to Tyngsborough Commons’ failure to either close the sale on or before August 30, 2013 or pay to the Company the $100,000 additional deposit required to exercise the right to extend the period for closing the sale by 45 days, as provided in the agreement. As a result of the termination, and pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the Company retained as liquidated damages $125,000 in deposits previously paid by Tyngsborough Commons. The Company intends to continue to pursue available options with respect to a sale of the Tyngsborough land. However, the price at which we may be able to sell the land may depend on factors beyond the Company’s control, including, without limitation, the condition of the local real estate market, the availability of financing to prospective purchasers of the land, and public market perceptions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the amount of consideration the Company may be able to obtain for the land or as to any time frame within which a potential sale might occur. On March 27, 2013, in light of the Board’s views as to the prospects for the IQstream Business, the Board determined to terminate all of the remaining IQstream Employees, effective April 1, 2013. The Company continues to pursue available options with respect to the assets of the IQstream Business, including a possible sale of the intellectual property, equipment and other assets of the IQstream Business, either together or separately. There can be no assurances what value, if any, we may receive in connection with our exploration of options with respect to the IQstream Business or that any value we receive will exceed the liabilities and costs expended with respect to the IQstream Business prior to any such transaction. We are continuing to explore our options with respect to our other remaining non-cash assets, including patents and patent applications related to or used in the Intelligent Bandwidth Management Business and certain other fixed assets. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to identify suitable third parties for any such transactions. Even if we identify suitable third parties, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or consummate a transaction. Furthermore, the pursuit of any such transaction may require the expenditure of substantial legal and other fees, which may be incurred whether or not a transaction is consummated. Any decision we make regarding our options will necessarily involve risks and uncertainties and present challenges in implementation. 6 Table of Contents As a result, pursuit of any such options may not lead to increased stockholder value and, whether or not we pursue any available options, the amounts available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders may decrease. We may undergo, or may already have undergone, an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which could affect our ability to offset gains, if any, realized from the sale of the Company’s assets against our net operating losses and certain of our tax credit carryovers, which could reduce the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change to utilize its net operating losses and tax credits existing as of the date of such ownership change. Under the rules, such an ownership change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of a company’s stock within a rolling three-year period. The rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company. The Company completed an updated Section 382 study through July 31, 2011, and the results of this study showed that no ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code had occurred through July 31, 2011. If we were to undergo one or more “ownership changes” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code, or if one has already occurred, our net operating losses and certain of our tax credits existing as of the date of each ownership change may be unavailable, in whole or in part, to offset gains, if any, from the sale of the Company’s assets. If we are unable to offset fully for U.S. federal income tax purposes gains, if any, realized in respect of the sale of assets with its tax loss carry-forwards, we may incur U.S. federal income tax liability that could reduce the assets available for distribution to our stockholders. Our stockholders may be liable to our creditors for part or all of the amount received from us in our liquidating distributions if reserves are inadequate. In connection with the Plan of Dissolution, we may establish a contingency reserve designed to satisfy any additional claims and obligations that may arise. Any contingency reserve may not be adequate to cover all of our claims and obligations. Under the DGCL, if we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our claims and obligations during the three-year period after we file the Certificate of Dissolution, each stockholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of the lesser of (i) such stockholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve and (ii) the amounts previously received by such stockholder in the Dissolution from us and from any liquidating trust or trusts. Accordingly, in such event, a stockholder could be required to return part or all of the liquidating distributions previously made to such stockholder, and a stockholder could receive nothing from us under the Plan of Dissolution. In addition, although the Board determined that all amounts distributed to our stockholders prior to the filing of the Certificate of Dissolution were (or will be when declared) appropriately paid out of surplus as defined under the DGCL and otherwise not required to satisfy liabilities to our creditors, to the extent that the contingency reserve is determined to be inadequate for payment of our claims and obligations, and it is further determined that the Board’s determination was incorrect at the time of the declaration of such distributions, it is possible that creditors could seek to recoup such amounts from our stockholders. Moreover, if a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a situation in which a stockholder may incur a net tax cost if the repayment of the amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable in an amount equal to the amount of the taxes paid on amounts previously distributed. We closed our stock transfer books on March 7, 2013 and trading of the Common Stock was suspended on the NASDAQ Global Select Market as of March 7, 2013, each of which may make it difficult for stockholders to trade their shares. On March 7, 2013 (the “Final Record Date”), we closed our stock transfer books and discontinued recording transfers of shares of the Company’s common stock, $0.001 par value per share (the “Common Stock”) on our stock transfer books, except transfers by will, intestate succession or operation of law. Therefore, shares of the Common Stock ceased being freely transferable after the Final Record Date. All liquidating distributions from us or a liquidating trust, if any, will be made to our stockholders pro rata according to their respective holdings of common stock as of the Final Record Date. Following the filing of our Certificate of Dissolution, trading of the Common Stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market was suspended effective as of the close of trading on March 7, 2013 and, on March 15, 2013, we filed a Form 25 with the SEC to delist our Common Stock, which became effective prior to the opening of trading on March 25, 2013. Following the suspension of trading of the Common Stock, shares of our Common Stock held in street name with brokers have been trading in the over-the-counter market on the Pink Sheets, an electronic bulletin board 7 Table of Contents established for unlisted securities, under the symbol “SCMR.PK”. The Company has been informed that the Common Stock has been trading under “due-bill” contractual obligations between the seller and purchaser of the stock, who negotiate and rely on themselves with respect to the allocation of stockholder proceeds arising from ownership of the shares. Such trading has reduced the market liquidity of the Common Stock. As a result, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the Common Stock, if they are able to trade the Common Stock at all. Liquidity in the Company’s shares may be further reduced if and when the Company announces the sale of one or more of its assets, the resolution of any outstanding claims or disputes, or additional liquidating distributions. The market price of the Common Stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant price volatility. Trading in the Common Stock is inherently risky and highly speculative and the market for our stock is highly illiquid. The only value associated with our shares is the right to receive further distributions as part of the liquidation process. Because of the difficulty in estimating the amount and timing of the liquidating distributions, and due to the other risk factors discussed herein, our Common Stock may be subject to significant volatility and may trade above or below the amount of any liquidating distribution(s) that may be made. Until we obtain relief from the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, we will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We continue to be required to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. In order to eliminate these expenses we intend to seek relief from the SEC from the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, but no assurances can be given as to when or if such relief will be obtained. If we do not obtain such relief, and, in any event, until such time as we obtain such relief, we will continue to incur significant costs in complying with our public company reporting requirements. If we are unable to retain key personnel, our ability to successfully complete the wind down may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement the Plan of Dissolution is partially dependent upon our ability to retain our remaining personnel. As of July 31, 2013, the Company had only three employees. The retention of qualified personnel is difficult under the circumstances. While we have offered our key personnel certain financial incentives to remain with the Company, there is no legal obligation that would require those individuals to remain with the Company. Failure to retain these personnel could harm the implementation of the Plan of Dissolution, particularly during the current period. In the event we are unable to retain key personnel, we may be required to retain outside consultants to perform their duties or hire employees at a premium salary to perform certain key functions and day-to-day tasks. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 