Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors (including the risk factor on the investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice for potential FCPA violations) together with all the other information included in the Form 10-K, in evaluating our company, our business, and our prospects. Our performance is influenced by a variety of general economic and political factors. Our performance is influenced by a variety of general economic factors. For example, the domestic consumer firearm market experienced a decline in demand beginning during our second fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2007. This period was marked by an escalation of the subprime loan crisis, a tightening in the credit markets, the continued worsening of the housing market, increasing fuel prices, less than robust employment growth, and generally weak economic conditions. These factors contributed to a general slowdown of consumer spending across a wide variety of industry and product lines, and against this environment, unseasonably warm weather throughout most of the United States adversely affected the retail traffic in the sporting goods channel. At the same time, significant distribution channel purchases in anticipation of a strong hunting season resulted in excess inventory levels, which limited the ability of the distribution channel to purchase additional products. We expect that prevailing economic conditions and consumer spending patterns will continue to affect our business. Political and other factors also can affect our performance. Despite the continuing weakness of the overall economy, we began to experience strong consumer demand for our handguns and tactical rifle products beginning in our third fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009, with net product sales increasing 25.9% for the quarter and order backlog increasing by more than $95 million over the comparable quarter in the previous year and $102 million over the prior sequential quarter. For the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2009, our backlog grew an additional $145 million to $268 million. This period was marked by a new administration taking office in Washington, D.C., speculation surrounding increased gun control, and heightened fears of terrorism and crime. Throughout fiscal 2010, the significant increase in consumer demand began to wane and backlog for the first three successive quarters declined. During this time, we experienced some cancellation of the orders that had been received during the peak order period. Ongoing changes in the political and other factors that contributed to the very strong consumer demand for our handgun and tactical rifle products, particularly in an overall weak economic environment, may adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents The weakness of demand for our hunting products is adversely affecting our overall results. Sales of our hunting products have been disappointing since our acquisition of Thompson/Center Arms. Throughout fiscal 2009, we experienced a significant decline in demand for our hunting products, including bolt-action hunting rifles, interchangeable system rifles, fixed-barrel black powder firearms, and related parts and accessories. Hunting firearm sales declined by more than 33% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009, and, during fiscal 2009, we recorded an impairment charge relating to our hunting business of $98.2 million, less related deferred tax liabilities of $21.8 million, resulting in a $76.5 million adverse impact to after-tax profits. Among other things, we attribute the weakness in our hunting products to the severe weakness in the economy, excess levels of hunting product inventory in the sporting goods distribution channel, and the premium nature of the hunting products we offer. We have taken a number of actions to address the weak demand for our hunting products and to reduce the losses we have been incurring, including the introduction of lower price-point products in an effort to reach a larger segment of the market, moving from a direct sales force to a manufacturers’ representative model, and instituting cost-cutting initiatives and workforce reductions at our Rochester, New Hampshire facility. To date, although demand appears to have stabilized for our hunting products and we have been able to reduce the losses being incurred in this portion of our business, we may still consider the disposal of all or portions of our hunting business if we are unable to return it to an acceptable level of profitability. We remain dependent on the sale of our firearm products in the sporting goods distribution channel. We manufacture a wide array of pistols, revolvers, tactical rifles, hunting rifles, black powder firearms, handcuffs, and firearm-related products and accessories for sale to a wide variety of customers, including gun enthusiasts, collectors, hunters, sportsmen, competitive shooters, individuals desiring home and personal protection, law enforcement agencies and officers, and military agencies in the United States and throughout the world. We have made substantial efforts during the last several years to increase our sales to law enforcement and military agencies in the United States and throughout the world. Our efforts to increase firearm sales to law enforcement agencies have been successful to date with over 550 agencies in the United States and almost 50 agencies abroad selecting or approving for carry our M&P Series of pistols. We have not, however, yet secured any major contracts to supply firearms to any large domestic military agencies. Although we believe that we now are able to offer a broad array of competitive products to the military, we cannot predict whether or when we will be able to secure any major military supply contracts. As a result, approximately 82.2% of our net firearm sales remains in the sporting goods distribution channel. From time to time, we have been capacity constrained in our firearm business. From time to time, we have been capacity constrained and have been unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for some of our firearm products. Capacity constraints remain despite our achieving significant improvements in our production as a result of enhanced production methods and the purchase of additional machinery. During the last several years, we have enhanced our manufacturing productivity in terms of added capacity, increased daily production quantities, increased operational availability of equipment, reduced machinery down time, extended machinery useful life, and increased manufacturing efficiency. During the recent significant increase in consumer demand, not only did our capacity constraints prevent us from satisfying many consumer orders, but we also lost market share to several of our firearm competitors that we believe were able to capitalize on existing excess capacity in their facilities. Future significant increases in consumer demand for our products or increased business from law enforcement or military agencies may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing equipment. We may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time to time and may not have adequate financial resources to increase capacity to meet demand. We may suffer excess capacity and increased overhead if we increase our capacity to meet demand and that demand decreases. Our agreement with Walther could be terminated. We are the exclusive U.S. importer and distributor of Walther firearms and hold the production rights for the Walther PPK pistol in the United States, which we manufacture at our Houlton, Maine facility. Our current 17 Table of Contents agreement with Carl Walther GmbH is set to expire at the end of fiscal 2011. In addition, there are provisions in the agreement that give Carl Walther GmbH the right to terminate the agreement with proper notice. The failure to renew the existing agreement or the cancellation or expiration of the agreement would have a significant negative impact on our revenue and would create excess capacity at our Houlton, Maine facility. Walther sales represented approximately 10.7%, 10.2%, and 9.2% of our net sales for the years ended April 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success, as we currently produce the majority of our handguns and tactical rifles at this facility. The facility also houses our principal research, development, engineering, design, shipping, sales, finance, and management functions. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of this facility for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to produce and ship many of our firearm products and to provide service to our customers. We frequently make certain changes in our manufacturing operations and modernize our equipment as a result of the age of the facility and certain inefficient manufacturing processes in order to produce our anticipated volume of products in a more efficient and cost-efficient manner. We may not be successful in attaining increased production efficiencies. We rely heavily on third parties that act on our behalf. In our firearm business, we are often represented by third parties, including independent sales representatives, consultants, agents, and distributors. These representatives sometimes have the ability to enter into agreements on our behalf. The actions of these third parties could adversely affect our business if they enter into low margin contracts or conduct themselves in a manner that damages our reputation in the marketplace. We also face a risk that these third parties could violate domestic or foreign laws, which could put us at risk for prosecution in the United States or internationally. We face risks associated with government contracts. We have contracts with various government entities, including the U.S. government, in connection with our perimeter security business and may enter into such contracts in the future in connection with our firearm business. U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for convenience or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we are generally entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. In the case of a termination for default, the government typically pays only for the work it has accepted, and we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages the government suffers. Government contracts are subject to political and budgetary constraints. Although U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years, there is no that assurance this trend will continue. Current or future economic conditions, as well as competing demands for federal funds, could impact U.S. defense spending. We cannot predict the amount of total funding or funding for individual programs in future years. Reductions in or the elimination of funding for existing programs in which we participate or the reallocation of spending to programs in which we do not participate may adversely affect our operating results. The congressional budget authorization and appropriation process also impacts our government contracts. Multi-year U.S. government contracts typically are not fully funded at inception. While contract performance may extend over several years, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis. Delays or changes in appropriations may impact the funding available for our government contracts, as well as the timing of available funds. Other risks associated with government contracts include changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies, significant changes in contract scheduling, the potential for price adjustments and refunds following government audits, possible suspension or debarment if we are convicted or found liable of violating certain legal or regulatory requirements, and the prospect of contract award protests. 18 Table of Contents There is intense competition for U.S. government business from a diverse group of suppliers. Some of our competitors possess significantly greater resources than we do, which may enable them to respond more rapidly to changing market conditions. Our future success in securing government contracts depends upon our ability to effectively and efficiently develop and market our products and services. Our inability to secure government contracts could negatively impact our operating results. We could be subject to suspension or debarment from government contracting. We could be suspended or debarred from government contracting activities. Our failure to comply with the terms of one or more of our government contracts or with any of the government statutes and regulations, or the indictment or conviction on criminal charges by any of our subsidiaries or employees (including misdemeanors) relating to any of our government contracts could result in debarment. In addition, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and costs. Some federal and state statutes and regulations provide for automatic debarment in certain circumstances, such as upon a conviction for a violation. The suspension or debarment in any particular case may be limited to the facility, contract, or subsidiary involved in the violation or could be applied to our entire company in various circumstances. Even a narrow suspension or debarment could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our ability to renew contracts and to secure new contracts, both with governments and private customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The sale of our licensed products depends on the goodwill associated with our name and brand and the success of our licensees. Our licensed products and non-firearm products displayed in our catalogs and sold by us or our licensees compete based on the goodwill associated with our name and brand and the success of our licensees. A decline in the perceived quality of our firearm products, a failure to design our products to meet consumer preferences, or other circumstances adversely affecting our reputation could significantly damage our ability to sell or license those products. Our licensed products compete with numerous other licensed and non-licensed products outside the firearm market. Our businesses could sustain losses on “fixed-price” contracts. Under “fixed-price” contracts, we provide our perimeter security products and services for a predetermined price regardless of the actual costs incurred over the life of the project. Many fixed-price contracts involve large facilities and present the risk that our costs to complete a project may exceed the agreed upon fixed price. The fixed or maximum fees negotiated for such projects may not cover our actual costs and desired profit margins. If our actual costs for a fixed-price project is higher than we expect, our profit margins on the project will be reduced or we could suffer a loss. Our perimeter security business may incur liabilities related to professional services. Because we engineer our perimeter security products for use as a security measure for our customers, our failure to properly engineer the products in accordance with the standards to which they are sold could subject us to damages, which may include punitive damages. In addition, many of our perimeter security installation contracts include liquidated damages provisions under which we could be subject to damages as a result of delays in the performance of our work under the contract. These damage claims may exceed any insurance coverage that we currently maintain. Percentage-of-completion accounting used for our perimeter security contracts can result in overstated or understated profits or losses. We account for the revenue for our perimeter security contracts in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method of accounting requires us to calculate revenue and profit to be recognized in each reporting period for each project based on our predictions of future outcomes for each project, including our estimates of the total cost to complete the project, the project schedule and completion date, the percentage of the project that is completed, and the amounts of any change orders. Our failure to estimate accurately these factors, which are often subjective, could result in overstated or understated profits or losses for certain projects during a reporting period. 19 Table of Contents We may act as a general contractor for certain perimeter security projects, which will subject us to risks associated with facility construction and development activities, including cost overruns, delays, and other contingencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may act as a general contractor in connection with certain perimeter security projects. When we act as a general contractor, we are subject to various risks associated with construction (including shortages of labor and materials, work stoppages, labor disputes, failure to timely receive necessary approvals and permits, government regulations, and weather interference), which could cause construction delays. We are also responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including work assigned to subcontractors. Claims may be asserted against us for construction defects, personal injury, or property damage caused by the subcontractors, and, if successful, these claims give rise to liability. The cost of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies may be limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are unable to obtain adequate insurance against these claims in the future, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, a portion of construction work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the construction of our projects. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in the markets in which we act as a general contractor. Inadequate subcontractor resources could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our dependence on subcontractors could adversely affect us. We depend on third-party subcontractors to complete various aspects of our perimeter security projects whether or not we serve as a general contractor. Our ability to complete our projects on time and within our expected cost may be at risk based on subcontractor performance. Failure to complete a project on time may reduce our profit on that project, may subject us to damages by the customer, and puts at risk our ability to obtain work with that customer in the future. Substandard work on the part of our subcontractors could lead to a risk of product liability claims as well as customer dissatisfaction. Our perimeter security division could be adversely affected by severe weather. Adverse effects of severe weather conditions may include the following: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; • disruption of work schedules; • increased labor and materials costs in areas resulting from weather-related damage; • weather-related damage to our products, jobsites, or facilities; • inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. We typically remain obligated to perform our installation services after a natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause relieving us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are unable to react quickly to force majeure events, our installation operations may be affected significantly, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may incur higher employee medical costs in the future. Our firearm businesses are self-insured for our employee medical plan. The average age of employees working in our firearm division is 47 years. Approximately 14% of those employees are age 60 or over. While our medical costs in recent years have generally increased at the same level as the regional average, the age of our workforce could result in higher than anticipated medical claims, resulting in an increase in our costs beyond what we have 20 Table of Contents experienced. We have stop loss coverage in place for catastrophic events, but the aggregate impact may have an effect on our profitability. Insurance and bonding is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. Insurance coverage for firearm companies, including our company, is expensive and from time to time relatively difficult to obtain. Our insurance costs were approximately $8.5 million in fiscal 2010. An inability to obtain insurance, significant increases in the cost of insurance we obtain, or losses in excess of our insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. As is customary in the construction industry, we are often required to provide performance and surety bonds to customers in connection with providing our perimeter security solutions. These bonds indemnify the customer if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. Our inability to provide bonding with the terms and conditions required by our customers may result in an inability to compete for or win a project. The issuance of performance and surety bonds is at the insurer’s sole discretion. Bonds may be more difficult to obtain in the future or they may only be available at significant additional costs. If we are unable to provide bonding, we may lose the ability to bid on large installation projects. Our business is seasonal. Historically, our fiscal quarter ending July 31 had been our weakest quarter, primarily as a result of customers pursuing other sporting activities outdoors with the arrival of more temperate weather and the reduced disposable income of our customers after using their tax refunds for purchases in March and April, historically our strongest months. As a result of our acquisition of Thompson/Center Arms, the degree to which summer seasonality impacts our business has lessened because the hunting industry generally prepares for the hunting season well in advance of cooler temperatures. In addition, with the acquisition of USR in fiscal 2010, weather-related seasonality and timing associated with the end of the federal budget period each September 30th can result in the potential for lower sales in the winter. We now expect that our fiscal quarter ending January 31st will be our weakest quarter, as sales associated with hunting sharply decline as the season winds down and construction projects in our perimeter security division are subject to delay due to snow, freezing temperatures, or inclement weather throughout much of the nation. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs, thereby harming our operating results. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, components, and other supplies from independent sources necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the materials used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. In most cases, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we could be subject to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our suppliers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce their products that we use in our products. The time lost in seeking and acquiring new sources could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. Shortages of ammunition also can adversely affect the demand for our products. We may be unsuccessful in achieving one or more of our goals to increase revenue, increase gross margins, and reduce operating expense ratios. We may be unsuccessful in achieving one or more of our goals to increase revenue, increase gross margins, and reduce operating expense ratios. Our ability to achieve these goals depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to introduce new products and services with significant customer appeal, pressures on the prices of our products and services, increases in required capital expenditures, and increases in the costs of labor and materials. 21 Table of Contents We face intense competition that could result in our losing or failing to gain market share and suffering reduced revenue. We operate in intensely competitive markets that are characterized by competition from major domestic and international companies in our firearm business and from a large number of competitive companies and alternative solutions in our perimeter security business. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Any movement away from high-quality, domestic handguns to lower priced or comparable foreign alternatives would adversely affect our firearm business. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources and, in certain cases, may have lower cost structures than we possess and that may afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, to negotiate lower prices on raw materials and components, to deliver competitive products at lower prices, and to introduce new products and respond to customer requirements more effectively and quickly than we can. Competition is primarily based on quality of products, product innovation, price, consumer brand awareness, alternative solutions, and customer service and support. Pricing, product image, quality, and innovation are the dominant competitive factors in the firearm industry. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in designing and introducing innovative new products and services; • our ability to predict the evolving requirements and desires of our customers; • the quality of our customer service; • product and service introductions by our competitors; and • foreign labor costs and currency fluctuations, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our products. Our objective of becoming a global leader in the businesses of safety, security, protection, and sport may not be successful. Our objective of becoming a global leader in the businesses of safety, security, protection, and sport may not be successful. This objective was designed to diversify our business and to reduce our traditional dependence on handguns in general, and revolvers in particular, in the sporting goods distribution market. While we have been successful in substantially expanding our pistol business in multiple markets, in entering the long-gun market with tactical rifles and hunting rifles, and in entering the perimeter security business, we have not yet fully achieved our broader objectives. Pursuing our strategy to fulfill our objective may require us to hire additional managerial, manufacturing, marketing, and sales employees; to introduce new products and services; to purchase additional machinery and equipment; to expand our distribution channels; to expand our customer base to include a leadership position in sales to law enforcement agencies and the military; and to engage in strategic alliances and acquisitions. We may not be able to attract and retain the additional employees we require, to introduce new products that attain significant market share, to increase our law enforcement and military business, to complete successful acquisitions or strategic alliances, or to penetrate successfully other safety, security, protection, and sport markets. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and the failure to do so could impede our growth. We have entered into strategic alliances in the past and anticipate that we will enter into additional strategic alliances in the future. We continually explore strategic alliances designed to expand our product offerings, enter new markets, and improve our distribution channels. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. 22 Table of Contents The successful execution of our strategy will depend in part on our ability to make successful acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we plan to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions in order to enhance existing products and offer new products, enter new markets and businesses, and enhance our current markets and business. Our acquisitions of Thompson/Center Arms in January 2007 and USR in July 2009 are the only acquisitions that we have completed to date. Our acquisition strategy involves significant risks. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size, and success of our acquisition efforts. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. Acquisitions also may become more difficult in the future as we or others acquire the most attractive candidates. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including the following: • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices; • the ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities; • the availability of cash resources, borrowing capacity, or stock at favorable price levels to provide required purchase prices in acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention to acquisition efforts; and • the ability to obtain any requisite governmental or other approvals. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with various companies. In connection with these discussions, we and each potential acquisition candidate exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the prospective acquisition candidate agrees not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time and agrees to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition, such as preparing audited financial information. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated but may result in increased legal and consulting costs in our income statement. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the size, timing, and success of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Consequently, our operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These interim fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. In order to pursue a successful acquisition strategy, we may need to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our revenue and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. Our experience in acquiring other businesses is limited. We may be unable to complete effectively an integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our 23 Table of Contents operations; to achieve our operating, growth, and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional revenue as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. The integration of acquired businesses involves numerous risks, including the following: • the potential disruption of our core businesses; • risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of the acquired business with our business; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company; • meeting the challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results; • the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions; and • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems. We may not be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisition, and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and reduce our profitability. Our growth strategy may require significant additional funds, the amount of which will depend upon the size, timing, and structure of future acquisitions and our working capital and general corporate needs. Any borrowings made to finance future acquisitions or for operations could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations, or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we finance any future acquisitions in whole or in part through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use our common stock for acquisitions will depend on the market price of our common stock from time to time and the willingness of potential sellers to accept our common stock as full or partial consideration for the sale of their businesses. Our inability to use our common stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue our acquisition program could materially limit our growth. The failure to manage our growth could adversely affect our operations. To remain competitive, we must make significant investments in systems, equipment, and facilities. In addition, we may commit significant funds to enhance our sales, marketing, and licensing efforts in order to expand our business. As a result of the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses, our failure to increase sufficiently our net sales to offset these increased costs would adversely affect our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Revenue in our perimeter security business has compounded growth of approximately 215.1% in the last three years. This rapid expansion in the size of the business has required us to rapidly increase our number of employees and the size of our office space and to build additional relationships with suppliers. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operations. We have substantially increased the number of our manufacturing and design programs as well as our perimeter security offerings and plan to expand further the number and diversity of our programs in the future. Our ability to manage our planned growth effectively will require us to • enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • enhance our facilities and purchase additional equipment, which will include ongoing modernization of our Springfield facility and securing by lease or purchase an enlarged facility for our perimeter security business; and • successfully hire, train, and motivate additional employees, including additional personnel for our sales, marketing, and licensing efforts. The expansion and diversification of our products and customer base may result in increases in our overhead and selling expenses. We also may be required to increase staffing and other expenses as well as our expenditures on capital equipment and leasehold improvements in order to meet the demand for our products. Any increase in expenditures in anticipation of future sales that do not materialize would adversely affect our profitability. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide funds for the expansion of our business. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such financing requirements at this time. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or obtain the right to use intellectual property from third parties could impair our competitive advantage, reduce our revenue, and increase our costs. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may provide only limited protection. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights or obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property from third parties could reduce our sales and increase our costs. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Patents may not be issued for the patent applications that we have filed or may file in the future. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. We have registered certain of our trademarks in the United States and other countries. We may be unable to enforce existing or obtain new registrations of principle or other trademarks in key markets. Failure to obtain or enforce such registrations could compromise our ability to protect fully our trademarks and brands and could increase the risk of challenges from third parties to our use of our trademarks and brands. In the past, we did not consistently require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, employment agreements, or proprietary information and invention agreements; however, such agreements are now required. Therefore, our former employees and consultants may try to claim some ownership interest in our intellectual property and may use our intellectual property competitively and without appropriate limitations. We may incur substantial expenses and devote management resources in prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. We may become involved in litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop intellectual property that is similar or superior to our intellectual property, duplicate our intellectual property, or design around our patents and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our 25 Table of Contents products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we sell products or from which competing products may be sold. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our intellectual property and products that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may prove to be inadequate and competitors may be able to independently develop similar intellectual property. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the markets for our products. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business. In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face risks associated with international currency exchange. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect most of our sales in U.S. dollars, a portion of our revenue results from goods that are purchased, in whole or in part, from a European supplier, in euros, thereby exposing us to some foreign exchange fluctuations. In the future, more customers or suppliers may make or require payments in non-U.S. currencies, such as the euro. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the sale of our products or the cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if a currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We do not enter into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. Our principal market risk relates to changes in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Annually, we purchase approximately $25 million of inventory from a European supplier. This exposes us to risk from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. A 10% drop in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the euro would, to the extent not covered through price adjustments, reduce our gross profit on that $25 million of inventory by approximately $2.5 million. In an effort to offset our risks from unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations, we periodically enter into euro participating forward options under which we purchase euros to be used to pay the European manufacturer. We face risks associated with international activities. Political and economic conditions abroad may result in a reduction of our sales, as a result of the sale of our products in more than 50 foreign countries; our importation of firearms from Walther, which is based in Germany; and our purchase of ammunition magazines from Italy. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could reduce our ability to sell our products in foreign markets, the ability of foreign customers to purchase our products, and our ability to import firearms and parts from Walther and other foreign suppliers. Our foreign sales of handguns and our importation of handguns from Walther create a number of logistical and communications challenges. These activities also expose us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following: • compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • limitations on imports and exports; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; 26 Table of Contents • the possibility of appropriation of our assets without just compensation; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel and diverse cultures; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • possible employee turnover or labor unrest; • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • political or economic instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, or limitations on imports or exports also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any actions by foreign countries to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade also could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences, could affect the attractiveness of our products to our U.S. customers. We are subject to extensive regulation. Our business, as well as the business of all producers and marketers of firearms and firearm parts, is subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and governmental regulations and protocols, including the National Firearms Act and the Gun Control Act of 1968. These laws generally prohibit the private ownership of fully automatic weapons and place certain restrictions on the interstate sale of firearms unless certain licenses are obtained. We manufacture fully automatic weapons for the law enforcement and military markets, and hold all necessary licenses under these federal laws. From time to time, congressional committees consider proposed bills and various states enact laws relating to the regulation of firearms. These proposed bills and enacted state laws generally seek either to restrict or ban the sale and, in some cases, the ownership of various types of firearms. We believe we are in compliance with all such laws applicable to us and hold all necessary licenses. The regulation of firearms could become more restrictive in the future and any such restriction would harm our business. In addition, a significant number of our products are serial number controlled and detailed acquisition and disposition records must be kept to ensure compliance with federal regulations as administered by the ATF. Also, the export of our products is controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). ITAR implements the provisions of the Arms Export Control Act as described in the Code of Federal Regulations and is enforced by the U.S. Department of State. Among its many provisions, ITAR requires a license application for the export of firearms and congressional approval for any application with a total value of $1 million or higher. Because our manufacturing process includes certain toxic, flammable, and explosive chemicals, we are subject to the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (“CFATS”), as administered by the Department of Homeland Security, which requires that we take additional reporting and security measures related to our manufacturing process. As a government contractor, we are required to comply with the FAR, a set of regulations established to govern the process through which the government purchases goods and services. In our perimeter security business, we are also subject to numerous construction regulations and safety regulations that apply to construction sites, and local permitting requirements at each location where we install our products. In addition, like many other manufacturers, we are subject to compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and many other regulations surrounding employment law, environmental law, and taxation. Compliance with all of these regulations is costly and time consuming. Although we take every measure to ensure compliance with the many regulations we are subject to, inadvertent violation of any of these regulations could cause us to incur fines and penalties and may also lead to restrictions on our ability to sell our products and services. 27 Table of Contents We are currently involved in numerous lawsuits. We are currently involved in numerous lawsuits, including a lawsuit involving a municipality, a securities class action lawsuit, and two purported stockholder derivative lawsuits. We are currently defending a lawsuit brought by the City of Gary, Indiana against us and numerous other manufacturers and distributors arising out of the design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of handguns. The city seeks to recover substantial damages, as well as various types of injunctive relief that, if granted, could affect the future design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of handguns by the defendant manufacturers and distributors. We believe that the various allegations are unfounded and, in addition, that any accidents and any results from them were due to negligence or misuse of the firearm by a third party and that there should be no recovery against us. We, our Chief Executive Officer, and our former Chief Financial Officer were named in three similar purported securities class action lawsuits, which were subsequently consolidated into one action The plaintiffs seek damages for alleged violations of Section 10(b) and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. On March 26, 2009, the Court, on our motion, dismissed our Chairman of the Board from the litigation. On May 11, 2010, the Court certified the consolidation action as consisting of a class of persons who purchased our securities between June 15, 2007 and December 6, 2007 and suffered damage as a result. The Court scheduled discovery concerning the facts of this action ended on May 28, 2010. Examination of any experts put forth by the parties ends on October 1, 2010. The parties will then have until October 29, 2010 to move for summary disposition of the case. We are involved in two purported stockholder derivative lawsuits brought in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. These actions were brought by putative plaintiffs on behalf of our company against certain of our officers and directors. On December 15, 2009, the Court ordered the actions consolidated. On January 29, 2010, the plaintiffs filed their Verified Consolidated Shareholder Complaint (“Consolidated Complaint”). We moved to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint on March 31, 2010. The plaintiffs opposed that motion on May 28, 2010. A hearing of the matter before the Court is currently scheduled to occur on July 15, 2010. We are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not have to pay significant damages or amounts in settlement above insurance coverage. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation could harm our business. Litigation of this nature also is expensive and time consuming and diverts the time and attention of our management. Reference is made to Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the other lawsuits to which we are subject. We are under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice for potential FCPA violations. On January 19, 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) unsealed indictments of 22 individuals from the law enforcement and military equipment industries, one of whom was our Vice President-Sales, International & U.S. Law Enforcement. We were not charged in the indictment. We also were served with a Grand Jury subpoena for the production of documents. We have always taken, and continue to take seriously, our obligation as an industry leader to foster a responsible and ethical culture, which includes adherence to laws and industry regulations in the United States and abroad. Although we are cooperating fully with the DOJ in this matter and have undertaken a comprehensive review of company policies and procedures, the DOJ may determine that we have violated FCPA laws. We cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or its outcome. There could be additional indictments of our company, our officers, or our employees. If the DOJ determines that we violated FCPA laws, or if our employee is convicted of FCPA violations, we may face sanctions, including significant civil and criminal penalties. In addition, we could be prevented from bidding on domestic military and government contracts, and could risk debarment by the U.S. Department of State. We also face increased legal expenses and could see an increase in the cost of doing international business. We could also see private civil litigation arising as a result of the outcome of the investigation. In addition, responding to the investigation may divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations. Regardless of the outcome of the investigation, the publicity surrounding the investigation and the potential risks associated with the investigation could negatively impact the perception of our company by investors, customers, and others. 28 Table of Contents We are under investigation by the SEC for potential violation of federal securities laws. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2010, we received a letter from the staff of the SEC giving notice that the SEC is conducting a non-public, fact-finding inquiry to determine whether there have been any violations of the federal securities laws. It appears this civil inquiry was triggered in part by the DOJ investigation into potential FCPA violations. We have always taken, and continue to take seriously, our obligation as an industry leader to foster a responsible and ethical culture, which includes adherence to laws and industry regulations in the United States and abroad. Although we are cooperating fully with the SEC in this matter, the SEC may determine that we have violated federal securities laws. We cannot predict when this inquiry will be completed or its outcome. If the SEC determines that we have violated federal securities laws, we may face injunctive relief, disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, and sanctions, including fines and penalties, or may be forced to take corrective actions that could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, and liquidity. We also face increased legal expenses and could see an increase in the cost of doing business. We could also see private civil litigation arising as a result of the outcome of this inquiry. In addition, responding to the inquiry may divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations. Regardless of the outcome of the inquiry, the publicity surrounding the inquiry and the potential risks associated with the inquiry could negatively impact the perception of our company by investors, customers, and others. Environmental laws and regulations may impact our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws that regulate or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, CERCLA, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by RCRA. CERCLA, RCRA, and related state laws subject us to the potential obligation to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of certain pollutants at our manufacturing facilities and at third-party or formerly owned sites at which contaminants generated by us may be located. This requires us to make expenditures of both a capital and expense nature. In our efforts to satisfy our environmental responsibilities and to comply with environmental laws and regulations, we maintain policies relating to the environmental standards of performance for our operations and conduct programs to monitor compliance with various environmental regulations. However, in the normal course of our manufacturing operations, we may become subject to governmental proceedings and orders pertaining to waste disposal, air emissions, and water discharges into the environment. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental regulations. We may not have identified all existing contamination on our properties, including the property associated with our Thompson/Center Arms acquisition in January 2007, and we cannot predict whether our operations will cause contamination in the future. As a result, we could incur additional material costs to clean up contamination that exceed the amount of our reserves and escrows. We will periodically review the probable and reasonably estimable environmental costs in order to update the environmental reserves. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict with certainty the impact on us of future environmental compliance requirements or of the cost of resolution of future environmental proceedings and claims, in part because the scope of the remedies that may be required is not certain, liability under federal environmental laws is joint and several in nature, and environmental laws and regulations are subject to modification and changes in interpretation. Additional or changing environmental regulation may become burdensome in the future, and any such development could have a material adverse effect on us. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy significant debt service obligations. As of April 30, 2010, our consolidated long-term indebtedness was $80.0 million. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our indebtedness and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 29 Table of Contents • reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; • limiting, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • having a material adverse effect on our business if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, because such failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all or a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash. To a certain extent, our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity. Under the terms of the indenture governing our senior convertible notes, we are limited in our ability to incur future indebtedness until certain conditions are met. Under the terms of the indenture governing the 4% senior convertible notes due in 2026 that we sold in December 2006, we agreed to a limitation on the incurrence of debt by us and our subsidiaries. Until such time as the closing price of our common stock has exceeded 200% of the conversion price of the notes for at least 30 trading days during any period of 40 consecutive trading days, we may not, directly or indirectly, incur debt in excess of designated amounts. This limitation affects our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, including the ability to finance potential acquisitions. If we are unable to make additional borrowings as a result of this limitation, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not have the funds necessary to repay the senior convertible notes at maturity or purchase the notes at the option of the noteholders or upon a fundamental change as required by the indenture governing the notes. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the senior convertible notes will become due and payable by us. In addition, on December 15, 2011, December 15, 2016, and December 15, 2021, holders of the notes may require us to purchase their notes for cash. Noteholders may also require us to purchase their notes for cash upon a fundamental change as described in the indenture governing the notes. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to repay or repurchase the notes when required. No sinking fund is provided for the notes. Our governing documents and Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and discourage a takeover. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Nevada law make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and make a takeover more difficult to complete, even if such a transaction were in our stockholders’ interest or might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. Our stockholders’ rights plan may adversely affect existing stockholders. Our stockholders’ rights plan may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In general and subject to certain exceptions as to existing major stockholders, stock purchase rights issued under the plan become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer or exchange offer of 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After any such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our 30 Table of Contents common stock at 50% of the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors since the rights may be redeemed by us at $0.01 per stock purchase right at any time before any person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights expire in August 2015. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Our board of directors has the legal power and authority to determine the terms of an offering of shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for these shares, to the extent of our shares of authorized and unissued capital stock. Sale of a substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of April 30, 2010, there were 59,922,031 shares of our common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities laws, unless held by an “affiliate” of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the securities laws. Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, officers, and certain principal stockholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 described below. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144, who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and that non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices. As of April 30, 2010, we had outstanding options to purchase 3,207,264 shares of common stock under our incentive stock plans and other option agreements and 210,727 undelivered restricted stock units under our incentive stock plans, and we had issued 1,544,761 of the 10,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan. As of April 30, 2010, we also had outstanding warrants to purchase 70,000 shares of common stock. We have registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to our incentive stock plans and available for issuance pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan as well as the shares underlying the warrants. Shares covered by such registration statements upon the exercise of stock options or warrants or pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents If holders of our senior convertible notes elect to convert their notes and sell material amounts of our common stock in the market, such sales could cause the price of our common stock to decline, and such downward pressure on the price of our common stock may encourage short selling of our common stock by holders of our senior convertible notes or others. The conversion of some or all of our senior convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. To the extent that holders of our senior convertible notes elect to convert the notes into shares of our common stock and sell material amounts of those shares in the market, our stock price may decrease as a result of the additional amount of shares available on the market. The subsequent sales of these shares could encourage short sales by holders of senior convertible notes and others, placing further downward pressure on our stock price. If there is significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock, it may encourage holders of senior convertible notes or others to sell shares by means of short sales to the extent permitted under the U.S. securities laws. Short sales involve the sale by a holder of notes, usually with a future delivery date, of common stock the seller does not own. Covered short sales are sales made in an amount not greater than the number of shares subject to the short seller’s right to acquire common stock, such as upon conversion of notes. A holder of notes may close out any covered short position by converting its notes or purchasing shares in the open market. In determining the source of shares to close out the covered short position, a holder of notes will likely consider, among other things, the price of common stock available for purchase in the open market as compared to the conversion price of the notes. The existence of a significant number of short sales generally causes the price of common stock to decline, in part because it indicates that a number of market participants are taking a position that will be profitable only if the price of the common stock declines. We may issue securities that could dilute shareholder ownership and the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to us. We may delay, limit, or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. We may also issue equity securities as consideration for acquisitions we may make. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Our operating results may involve significant fluctuations. Various factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • the volume of customer orders relative to our capacity; • the success of product and service introductions and market acceptance of new products by us and our competitors; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of future customer orders; • effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • ability to manage inventory and inventory obsolescence; • pricing and other competitive pressures; and • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any period as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. 32 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many factors. Many factors could affect the trading price of our common stock, including the following: • variations in our operating results; • the relatively small public float of our common stock; • introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors; • the success of our distributors; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; • general economic, political, and market conditions and consumer spending patterns; • governmental policies and regulations; • the general performance of the markets in which we participate; and • factors relating to suppliers and competitors. In addition, market demand for small-capitalization stocks, and price and volume fluctuations in the stock market unrelated to our performance, could result in significant fluctuations in market price of our common stock. The performance of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise equity in the public markets and adversely affect the growth of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 