ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which may impact future results of operations and financial condition. The more significant risks and uncertainties are described below. The continuing volatility in the financial markets and the current recession could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The significant financial market volatility experienced worldwide during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 has continued in 2009 and the impact on the U.S. and foreign economies appears to 15 Table of Contents be worsening. Although the U.S. and other foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear whether those actions will be effective. Therefore, the financial market volatility and the resulting negative economic impact could continue and it is possible that it may be prolonged. Although we continue to monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future market conditions or their impact on our stock price or investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur future additional realized and unrealized losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the continuing financial market volatility and economic downturn could have a material adverse affect on our insureds, agents, claimants, reinsurers, vendors and competitors. Certain of the actions the U.S. Government has taken or may take in response to the financial market crisis have impacted certain property and casualty insurance carriers. The government is actively taking steps to implement additional measures to stabilize the financial markets and stimulate the economy, and it is possible that these measures could further affect the property and casualty insurance industry and its competitive landscape. Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our losses. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured and reinsured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Accordingly, as we receive new information and update our assumptions over time regarding the ultimate liability, our loss reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Any changes in these estimates could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition during the period the changes are made. Our loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of claims. Judgment is required to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing workers' compensation loss reserve estimates including the ultimate number of expensive cases and the length of time required to settle long-term, expensive cases, combined with the effects of medical inflation. Expensive claims are those involving permanent disability of an injured worker and are paid over several years. The ultimate costs of expensive claims are difficult to estimate because of such factors as the on-going and possibly increasing need for medical care, length of disability, life expectancy and benefits for dependents. In determining our workers' compensation loss reserve estimates, our actuaries consider medical inflation by evaluating longer term trends. During the accident years just prior to the legislative reforms (1998 - 2002), we experienced double digit medical inflation. During 2003 and 2004, reforms enacted in Florida and California provided both immediate medical cost reductions and more control over future medical costs. Our loss estimates for these two years reflect an average 6% per year deflation in medical costs. For the accident years following the reforms, we are experiencing a return to inflation and our loss reserve estimates reflect an average 7% per year medical inflation rate for 2005 through 2008. Medical expenses currently constitute approximately 60% of total workers' compensation benefits, accordingly we assume that medical inflation trends will continue and will impact our long-term claims costs and loss reserves. Our premium rates are established based on our forecast of future medical inflation. During the reform years, we reduced our California premium rates based on the expected decrease in medical costs, combined with the other benefits of the reforms. Because we are expecting future medical inflation to be greater than that of recent years, we increased premium rates in California by 4% effective January 1, 2009. Future healthcare reforms proposed by Federal or state governments, if any, may impact the medical inflation trends. Although the current recession is a risk to the workers' compensation claims operations, we do not have any data that suggest that it may have a material impact on our business. 16 Table of Contents Our loss reserve estimates for catastrophe losses in the assumed reinsurance business, which we exited in 2005, are dependent upon obtaining information timely from ceding companies. Estimates of catastrophe losses can be negatively impacted by lags in reporting from ceding companies. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the ceding company may not have adequately estimated the amount of the reinsured loss. If we are unable to obtain or collect on ceded reinsurance, our ability to write new policies, as well as our financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. We buy reinsurance protection in our workers' compensation business to protect us from the impact of losses over our retention amount, which is currently $5 million, and from the accumulation of losses up to $150 million and, in the event of California earthquakes, up to $200 million. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and could materially, adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Ceded reinsurance does not discharge our direct obligations under the policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries to which we believe we are entitled under our reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from our reinsurers until claims are paid and, in the case of long-term workers' compensation cases, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. Acts of terrorism could negatively impact our business and our financial condition. Under our workers' compensation policies, we are required to provide workers' compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us will depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Any such impact on us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We maintain excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance which provides protection up to $20 million for acts of terrorism including nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. We retain the first $5 million of each loss. We retain any losses in the $5 million excess $5 million layer which exceed our annual aggregate of $5 million. We also retain 50% of any loss other than nuclear, biological or chemical in the $10 million excess $10 million layer. We retain none of the loss in the $10 million excess $10 million layer in events of nuclear, biological or chemical attacks. In 2007, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 ("TRIA"), was extended through December 31, 2014. TRIA, as modified in 2007, may provide us with reinsurance protection for losses arising out of terrorist acts under certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations. The U.S. Treasury Secretary must certify an act for it to constitute an act of terrorism. Effective January 1, 2008, the definition of terrorism includes domestic acts of terrorism and continues to exclude acts of terrorism committed in the course of a war declared by the U.S. Congress. The losses arising from an act of terrorism must exceed $100 million to qualify for reimbursement under TRIA. If an event is certified, the U.S. Federal Government will reimburse losses not to exceed $100 billion in any year. Each insurance company is responsible for a deductible based on 20% of its direct premiums earned in the previous calendar year. Our deductible is $124.4 million for a covered loss occurring in 2009. For losses in excess of the deductible, the U.S. Federal Government will reimburse 85% of the insurer's loss, up to the insurer's proportionate share of the $100 billion aggregate limit. Notwithstanding the protection provided by the reinsurance we have purchased and any protection provided by TRIA, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated because events may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance protection. Also, an act of terrorism may impact the business community at large, impacting our ability to conduct 17 Table of Contents business, even if any insurance losses we sustain are covered by our reinsurance or any protection provided by TRIA. Accordingly, any acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and legislative changes, which impact the manner in which we operate our business. Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate, perhaps most significantly by the California DOI. These state agencies have broad regulatory powers designed to protect policyholders, not stockholders or other investors. These powers include, among other things, the ability to: grant and revoke licenses to transact business; license agents; set the standards of solvency to be met and maintained; determine the nature of, and limitations on, investments and dividends; approve policy forms and, in some states, establish premium rates; set tax rates on premiums; periodically examine financial statements; determine the form and content of required financial statements; and periodically examine market conduct. In addition, workers' compensation insurance is statutorily provided for in all of the states in which we do business. State laws and regulations provide for the form and content of policy coverage and the rights and benefits that are available to injured workers, their representatives and medical providers. In Florida, the rates at which we provide coverage are determined by regulation. Legislation and regulation also impact our ability to investigate fraud and other abuses of the workers' compensation system in the states in which we do business. Our relationships with medical providers are also impacted by legislation and regulation, including penalties for failure to make timely payments. Federal legislation typically does not directly impact our workers' compensation business, but our business can be indirectly affected by changes in health care, occupational safety and health and tax regulations. President Obama has made re-vamping the nation's healthcare system one of his high priorities. Since healthcare costs are the largest component of our loss costs, we may be impacted by any change in legislation. Also, regulatory change could result to address the unprecedented events in the financial markets, including the possibility of federal regulation of insurance. This extensive regulation of our business may affect the cost or demand for our products and may limit our ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions that we might desire to maintain our profitability. In addition, we may be unable to maintain all required approvals or comply fully with applicable laws and regulations, or the relevant governmental authority's interpretation of such laws and regulations. A downgrade in the financial strength rating of our insurance subsidiaries could reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength as an indication of an ability to pay claims. Our insurance subsidiaries currently have a financial strength rating of A (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which we believe has the most influence on our business. The financial strength ratings of A.M. Best and other rating agencies are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agents and are not intended for the protection of investors. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by our financial strength rating. A reduction in our A.M. Best rating, or a downgrading by one of the other rating agencies, could impact the amount of business we could write in our workers' compensation segment. 18 Table of Contents Intense competition could adversely affect our ability to sell policies at premium rates we deem adequate. In most of the states in which we operate, we face significant competition which, at times, is intense and prolonged. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Competition in our businesses is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, financial strength ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed and quality of claims payments, reputation, perceived financial strength and general experience. In the workers' compensation business, we compete with regional and national insurance companies and state-sponsored insurance funds as well as potential insureds that have decided to self-insure. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we have. Intense competitive pressure on prices can result from the actions of even a single large competitor, such as the State Compensation Insurance Fund in California. Except in states such as Florida, where premium rates for workers' compensation insurance are determined by regulation, we establish our prices for our workers' compensation policies based on the work of our actuaries, using our own data and our best judgment about loss cost trends. Historically, when competition has been intense, the amount of business we are able to write has decreased because we have not reduced our prices below levels we deem to be adequate to maintain our goal of achieving underwriting profits and outperforming the industry. As a result, our profitability during those times has decreased. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our revenues and net income. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by factors that are beyond our control. Our fixed income portfolio is affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors also affect the equity markets and, consequently, the value of the equity securities we own. Any significant decline in our investment income or the value of our investments as a result of falling interest rates, deterioration in the credit or liquidity of companies in which we have invested, decreased dividend payment rates, general market conditions, or events that have an adverse impact on any particular industry or geographic region in which we hold significant investments could have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our stockholders' equity and our policyholders' surplus. The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates and the amount of cash flows from operations that are available for investment. The fair values of fixed maturity investments that are "available-for-sale" fluctuate with changes in interest rates and cause fluctuations in our stockholders' equity. Our investment strategy attempts to manage interest rate and credit risk. We primarily invest in a broadly diversified portfolio of high quality debt securities and we have large holdings in cash and short-term U. S. Government securities. We only invest in mortgage-backed securities that carry the full faith and credit guaranty of the U.S. Government (GNMAs). We do not currently have any sub-prime mortgages, derivative securities or other credit-enhancement exposures. We do not engage in securities lending. We invest a small portion of our portfolio in below investment grade securities. The risk of default by borrowers that issue below investment grade securities is significantly greater than other borrowers because these borrowers are often highly leveraged and more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. In addition, these securities are generally unsecured and often subordinated to other debt. The risk that we may not be able to recover our investments in below investment grade securities is higher than with investment grade securities. 19 Table of Contents Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic, natural perils and regulatory conditions in California and Florida. Our business is concentrated in California (54.8% of 2008 workers' compensation net earned premiums) and in Florida (25.1% of 2008 workers' compensation net earned premiums). Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in these states could negatively impact our business. For example, regulatory changes in California in the early 1990's created intense price competition in our workers' compensation business from about 1995 to 1999, during which time our overall profitability experienced significant declines. In addition, California and Florida are states that are exposed to severe natural perils, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, along with the possibility of pandemics or terrorist acts. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of catastrophic events in these states. The California and Florida economies are affected by the sub-prime and real estate issues; and California is experiencing budget deficits; all of which are affecting the general economy and employment levels in these states and could affect the total payroll levels of our customers. Because our business is concentrated in this manner, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. We maintain excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance which provides protection up to $150 million for workers compensation losses and up to $200 million for catastrophe losses arising out of California earthquakes. We retain the first $5 million of each loss. In the layer of $5 million in excess of $5 million we retain any losses that exceed our annual aggregate limit of $25 million. In the layer of $10 million excess of $10 million we retain 50%. The risk of loss from catastrophes has not been eliminated because events may exceed the capacity of our reinsurance protection. We rely on independent insurance agents. The failure or inability of independent insurance agencies to market our insurance programs successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The business in our workers' compensation segment is produced by approximately 1,600 independent licensed insurance agents. Agents are not obligated to promote our insurance programs and may sell competitors' insurance programs. As a result, our business depends in part on the marketing efforts of these agents and on our ability to offer insurance programs and services that meet the requirements of their clients and customers. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments that are expected to continue in the future as a result of insolvencies. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury, which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in mandatory workers' compensation shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide workers' compensation insurance coverage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to write business, service our customers and meet certain regulatory requirements could be adversely affected if our information systems are rendered inoperable. Our business operations are increasingly dependent on technology-enabled systems and processes. In addition, the capture, storage and use of customer and proprietary company data and information are essential to our ongoing operations. Our information systems interface with various third-party systems for the purpose of exchanging information and complying with an ever increasing number of electronic regulatory requirements. We have implemented business continuity plans that include redundant systems at an alternate location, which we test on a periodic basis. However, there are certain events outside of our control that could render our systems inoperable such that we would be unable to service our agents, insureds and injured workers, or meet certain regulatory requirements, or could cause a breach of security that could jeopardize the privacy, confidentiality and integrity of our data or our customers' data. If such an event were to occur and our systems were unable to be restored or secured within a reasonable timeframe, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Examples of these events include, but are not limited to, catastrophic and wide-spread outages, "cyber or terrorist attacks" that destroy our information or systems and the loss of a number of our key information technology personnel or vendors. Litigation may have an adverse effect on our business. We are involved in various litigation proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Disputes adjudicated in the workers' compensation administrative systems may be appealed to review boards or civil courts, depending on the issues and local jurisdictions involved. From time to time plaintiffs also sue us on theories falling outside of the exclusive jurisdiction and remedies of the workers' compensation claims adjudication systems. Certain of these legal proceedings seek injunctive relief or substantial monetary damages, including claims for punitive damages, that may not be covered by our third party reinsurance agreements. Historically the Company has not experienced any material exposure or damages from any of these legal proceedings. In addition, in the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, all of our currently outstanding litigation is either without merit or the ultimate liability, if any, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our status as an insurance holding company with no direct operations could adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. Zenith National is a holding company which transacts substantially all of its business through its subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the stock of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt, and to pay Zenith National's expenses and dividends, depends, in the long-run, upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Payments of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries are restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to revised restrictions in the future. As a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries and we may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends on our capital stock. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on numerous factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. 21 Table of Contents State insurance laws may discourage takeover attempts that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders. We are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. Control would be presumed to exist under most state insurance laws with the acquisition of 10% or more of our outstanding voting securities. Applicable state insurance company laws and regulations could delay or impede a change of control of our company, which could prevent our stockholders from receiving a control premium. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 