Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which may impact future results of operations and financial condition. These risks are as follows: Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our losses. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay, and administer claims with respect to, insured and reinsured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Accordingly, as we receive new information and update our assumptions over time regarding the ultimate liability, our loss reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Any changes in these estimates are reflected in our results of operations during the period the changes are made, with increases in our loss reserves resulting in a charge to our earnings. Our loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of claims. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates including the length of time required to settle long-term, expensive cases, uncertainties in the long-term outcome of 2003 and 2004 legislative reforms in California and 2003 legislative reforms in Florida, and the fact that in certain of the years prior to reforms our loss reserves proved to be inadequate. Judgment is required to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. The key assumption in the estimation process for workers' compensation reserves is the claim cost inflation (deflation) trend, including the increasing costs of health care, which affects the medical component of claim costs, and the number of expensive claims relative to the total number of claims in a year. If there are increases in inflation trends, our reserves may need to be increased. Our loss 16 reserve estimates for catastrophe losses in the assumed reinsurance business are dependent upon obtaining information timely from ceding companies. Estimates of catastrophe losses can be negatively impacted by lags in reporting from ceding companies. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the ceding company may not have adequately estimated the amount of the reinsured loss. If we are unable to obtain or collect on ceded reinsurance, our ability to write new policies could be materially adversely affected. We buy reinsurance protection in our workers' compensation business to protect us from the impact of losses over $1 million and from the accumulation of losses up to $150 million and, in the event of a California earthquake, up to $200 million. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and could materially, adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Ceded reinsurance does not discharge our direct obligations under the policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders, even if we are unable to make recoveries to which we believe we are entitled under our reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from our reinsurers until claims are paid and, in the case of long-term workers' compensation cases, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. Acts of terrorism could negatively impact our business and our financial condition. Under our workers' compensation policies, we are required to provide workers' compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us will depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Any such impact on us could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. We purchased reinsurance protection for domestic acts of terrorism up to $150 million in excess of a $1 million retention and we retain 50% of any losses between $10 million and $20 million. The reinsurance for foreign acts of terrorism is up to $75 million in excess of a $1 million retention and we retain 50% of any losses between $10 million and $20 million. Both of these coverages exclude losses from nuclear, biological and chemical attacks for losses in excess of $20 million, and we retain 15% of any such losses between $10 million and $20 million. In 2005, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 ("Act") was extended through December 31, 2007. It is unclear at this time whether the Act or a modified version will be extended beyond December 31, 2007. The Act, as modified in 2005, may provide us with reinsurance protection for losses arising out of terrorist acts under certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations. The U.S. Treasury Secretary must certify an act for it to constitute an act of terrorism. The definition of terrorism excludes domestic acts of terrorism or acts of terrorism committed in the course of a war declared by the U.S. Congress. Losses arising from an act of terrorism must exceed a threshold amount to qualify for reimbursement. The threshold is $100 million in 2007. If an event is certified, the U.S. Federal Government will reimburse losses not to exceed $100 billion in any year. Each insurance company is responsible for a deductible based on a percentage of its direct earned premiums in the previous calendar year. Our deductible is $192.8 million in 2007. For losses in excess of the deductible in 2007, the U.S. Federal Government will reimburse 85% of the insurer's loss, up to the insurer's proportionate share of the $100 billion limit. Notwithstanding the protection provided by the reinsurance we have purchased and any protection provided by the Act, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated because events may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance protection. Also, an act of terrorism may impact the business community at large, impacting our ability to conduct 17 business, even if any insurance losses we sustain are covered by our reinsurance or any protection provided by the Act. Accordingly, any acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and legislative changes, which impact the manner in which we operate our business. Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate, perhaps most significantly by the California DOI. These state agencies have broad regulatory powers designed to protect policyholders, not stockholders or other investors. These powers include, among other things, the ability to: •influence how we conduct our business; •place limitations on our investments and dividends; •place limitations on our ability to transact business with our affiliates; •set standards of solvency to be met and maintained; and •prescribe the form and content of, and to examine, our financial statements. In addition, workers' compensation insurance is statutorily provided for in all of the states in which we do business. State laws and regulations provide for the form and content of policy coverage and the rights and benefits that are available to injured workers, their representatives and medical providers. In Florida, the rates at which we provide coverage are determined by regulation. Legislation and regulation also impact our ability to investigate fraud and other abuses of the workers' compensation system in the states in which we do business. Our relationships with medical providers are also impacted by legislation and regulation, including penalties for failure to make timely payments. Federal legislation typically does not directly impact our workers' compensation business, but our business can be indirectly affected by changes in health care and occupational safety and health regulations. This extensive regulation of our business may affect the cost or demand for our products and may limit our ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions that we might desire to increase our profitability. In addition, we may be unable to maintain all required approvals or comply fully with applicable laws and regulations, or the relevant governmental authority's interpretation of such laws and regulations. A downgrade in the financial strength rating of our insurance subsidiaries could reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength as an indication of an ability to pay claims. Our insurance subsidiaries currently have a financial strength rating of A- (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which we believe has the most influence on our business. The financial strength ratings of A.M. Best and other rating agencies are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agents and are not intended for the protection of investors. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by our financial strength rating. A reduction in our A.M. Best rating below A-, or a downgrading by one of the other rating agencies, could cause a reduction in the number of policies we write in our workers' compensation business. 18 Intense competition could adversely affect our ability to sell policies at premium rates we deem adequate. In most of the states in which we operate, we face significant competition which, at times, is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Competition in our businesses is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, financial strength ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payments, reputation, perceived financial strength and general experience. In the workers' compensation business, we compete with regional and national insurance companies and state-sponsored insurance funds, as well as potential insureds that have decided to self-insure. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we have. Intense competitive pressure on prices can result from the actions of even a single large competitor, such as the State Compensation Insurance Fund in California. Except in states such as Florida, where premium rates for workers' compensation insurance are determined by regulation, we establish our prices for our workers' compensation policies based on the work of our actuaries and using our best judgment about loss cost trends. Historically, when competition has been intense, the amount of business we are able to write has decreased because we have not reduced our prices below levels we deem to be adequate to maintain our goal of achieving a combined ratio under 100% to maintain market share or other revenue targets. As a result, our profitability during those times has decreased. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our revenues and net income. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by factors that are beyond our control. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors also affect the equity markets, and, consequently, the value of the equity securities we own. Any significant decline in our investment income as a result of falling interest rates, decreased dividend payment rates or general market conditions would have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our stockholders' equity and our policyholders' surplus. The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates and the amount of cash flows from operations that are available for investment. The fair values of fixed maturity investments that are "available-for-sale" fluctuate with changes in interest rates and cause fluctuations in our stockholders' equity. We invest a small portion of our portfolio in below investment-grade securities. The risk of default by borrowers that issue below investment-grade securities is significantly greater than other borrowers because these borrowers are often highly leveraged and more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. In addition, these securities are generally unsecured and often subordinated to other debt. The risk that we may not be able to recover our investments in below investment-grade securities is higher than with investment-grade securities. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic, natural perils and regulatory conditions in California and Florida. Our business is concentrated in California (62.5% of 2006 workers' compensation net earned premiums) and in Florida (22.2% of 2006 workers' compensation net earned premiums). Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in these states could negatively impact our business. For example, regulatory changes in California in the early 1990's created intense price competition in our workers' compensation business from about 1995 to 1999, during which time our overall profitability experienced significant declines. In addition, California and Florida are states that are exposed to severe natural perils, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, along with the possibility of terrorist acts. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of catastrophic events in these states. 19 Because our business is concentrated in this manner, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. We purchased excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance protection up to $150 million in excess of a $1 million retention with catastrophe reinsurance protection for losses arising out of a California earthquake up to $200 million. We will retain 50% of any losses between $10 million and $20 million. The risk of loss from natural perils has not been eliminated because events may exceed the capacity of our reinsurance protection. We rely on independent insurance agents and brokers. The failure or inability of independent insurance agencies and brokers to market our insurance programs successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The business in our workers' compensation segment is produced by approximately 1,400 licensed insurance agents and brokers. Agents and brokers are not obligated to promote our insurance programs and may sell competitors' insurance programs. As a result, our business depends in part on the marketing efforts of these agents and brokers and on our ability to offer insurance programs and services that meet the requirements of their clients and customers. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments that are expected to continue in the future as a result of insolvencies. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury, which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in mandatory workers' compensation shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide workers' compensation insurance coverage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. Litigation may have an adverse effect on our business. Like other members of the insurance industry, we are subject to various lawsuits, some of which could involve claims for substantial and/or indeterminate amounts (including claims for punitive damage that are not covered by insurance) and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. This litigation is based on a variety of issues including insurance and claim settlement practices. Based on current information, we believe any ultimate liability that may arise from outstanding lawsuits would not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, our evaluation of the likely impact of these actions could change in the future and an unfavorable outcome, depending upon the amount and timing, could have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows of a future period. Our status as an insurance holding company with no direct operations could adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. Zenith National is a holding company which transacts substantially all of its business through its subsidiaries. Our primary assets are the stock of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt, and to pay expenses and dividends, depends, in the long-run, upon 20 the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Payments of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries are restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to revised restrictions in the future. As a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries and we may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends on our capital stock. In addition, the payment of dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on numerous factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. State insurance laws may discourage takeover attempts that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders. We are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. Control would be presumed to exist under most state insurance laws with the acquisition of 10% or more of our outstanding voting securities. Applicable state insurance company laws and regulations could delay or impede a change of control of our company, which could prevent our stockholders from receiving a control premium. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 