D. Risk Factors This section describes some of the risks and uncertainties faced by us. The factors below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this annual report. The risk factors described below are considered to be the most significant or material ones, but they are not the only risks faced by us. We may not have sufficient capital to fund our international development activities beyond June 30, 2008. We entered into a credit agreement with Riata Management, LLC (“Riata”) in May 2008 and must repay the outstanding principal balance of $2 million by June 30, 2008. (see Item 5.B. – “Liquidity and Capital Resources”). We expect to repay the loan with proceeds from the second stage of our recently announced private placement with Riata. If we are unable to close the private placement, which is subject to disinterested shareholder approval, we may be unable to pay off the Riata loan and may not have sufficient capital to fund our international development activities beyond June 30, 2008. 2 Table of Contents We will have substantial capital requirements that we may be unable to finance on acceptable terms, or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future growth depends on our ability to make large capital expenditures for the exploration and development of natural gas and oil properties. Future cash flows and the availability of debt or equity financing will be subject to a number of variables, such as: • the success of our prospects in the United States, Romania, Morocco and Turkey; • success in finding and commercially producing reserves; and • prices of natural gas and oil. Additional financing sources will be required in the future to fund developmental and exploratory drilling. Issuing equity securities to raise additional capital could cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Additional debt financing could lead to: • a substantial portion of operating cash flow being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest; • our being more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns; and • restrictions on our operations. We might not be able to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If sufficient capital resources are not available, we might be forced to curtail developmental and exploratory drilling and other activities or be forced to sell some assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We might not be able to identify liabilities associated with properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities, which could cause us to incur losses. Our review and evaluation of prospects and future acquisitions might not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems. For example, inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, may not be readily identified even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, a seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices may adversely affect our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are substantially dependent upon the prevailing prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil. Lower natural gas and oil prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. Historically, natural gas and oil prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. If we establish reserves, a decrease in natural gas or oil prices will not only reduce revenues and profits, but will also reduce the quantities of reserves that are commercially recoverable and may result in charges to earnings for impairment of the value of these assets. If natural gas or oil prices decline significantly for extended periods of time in the future, we might not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations and make planned capital expenditures. Natural gas and oil prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Among the factors that could cause fluctuations are: • change in local and global supply and demand for natural gas and oil; • levels of production and other activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and other natural gas and oil producing nations; • market expectations about future prices; • the level of global natural gas and oil exploration, production activity and inventories; • political conditions, including embargoes, labor issues, war or terrorism in or affecting oil producing countries; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. 3 Table of Contents Lower natural gas and oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we establish natural gas and oil reserves, we will be required to replace, maintain or expand our natural gas and oil reserves in order to prevent our reserves and production from declining, which would adversely affect cash flows and income. In general, production from natural gas and oil properties declines over time as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we establish reserves and are not successful in our subsequent exploration and development activities or in subsequently acquiring properties containing reserves, our reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our ability to economically find, develop or acquire reserves in commercial quantities. To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced, either by a decrease in prevailing prices for natural gas and oil or an increase in exploration and development costs, and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired. Even with sufficient available capital, our future exploration and development activities may not result in additional proved reserves, and we might not be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Our retained net profits interest on Oil Mining License 109 may not yield any revenue to us. In June 2005, we sold our interest in Oil Mining License 109 (“OML 109”), a 215,000 acre concession located offshore Nigeria, and retained a net profits interest of up to $16 million based on future exploration success. Absent a new discovery on OML 109 by the new owner, the retained net profits interest will not yield any revenue to us. We might incur additional debt in order to fund our operations and our exploration and development activities, which would continue to reduce our financial flexibility. We currently have a $2 million short-term loan with Riata. We must repay this loan by June 30, 2008. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future financial performance. General economic conditions, oil and gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and future financial performance and our ability to obtain additional financing. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or to obtain future working capital, borrowings or equity financing to pay or refinance such debt will depend on factors such as financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our financial performance at the time we need capital. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we might be required to sell significant assets. Any failure to refinance or renew our indebtedness or any sale of significant assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel may result from increased drilling activities and could delay or otherwise adversely affect our cost of operations or our ability to operate according to our business plans. If drilling activities increase in the countries in which we operate generally, shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment and qualified personnel could develop. From time to time, shortages have sharply increased our operating costs in various areas around the world and could do so again. The demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews generally rise in response to the increased number of active rigs in service and could increase sharply in the event of a shortage. Shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment or qualified personnel could delay, restrict or curtail our exploration and development operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Undeveloped resources are uncertain. We have no established reserves and estimate that we will not have any production for 2008. Undeveloped resources, by their nature, are significantly less certain than developed resources. The discovery, determination and exploitation of undeveloped resources require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling and exploration programs. We may not be able to raise the capital we need to develop these resources. There is no certainty that we will discover resources or that, if discovered, resources will be economically viable or technically feasible to produce. 4 Table of Contents The value of our common shares might be adversely affected by matters not related to our own operating performance, which could also subject us to potential securities class action litigation. The value of our common shares may be affected by matters that are not related to our operating performance and which are outside our control, including the following: • general economic conditions in Canada, the United States, Romania, Morocco, Turkey and globally; • industry conditions, including fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas; • governmental regulation of the oil and natural gas industry, including environmental regulation; • fluctuation in foreign exchange or interest rates; • liabilities inherent in oil and natural gas operations; • geological, technical, drilling and processing problems; • unanticipated operating events which can reduce production or cause production to be shut in or delayed; • failure to obtain industry partner and other third party consents and approvals, when required; • stock market volatility and market valuations; • competition for, among other things, capital, acquisition of reserves, undeveloped land and skilled personnel; • the need to obtain required approvals from regulatory authorities; • worldwide supplies and prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil; • political conditions and developments in each of the countries in which we operate; • political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions; • revenue and operating results failing to meet expectations in any particular period; • investor perception of the oil and natural gas industry; • limited trading volume of our common shares; • change in environmental and other governmental regulations; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • our liquidity; and • our ability to raise additional funds. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their common shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We might become involved in securities class action litigation in the future. Such litigation often results in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Although it is not entirely free from doubt, we believe that it is more likely than not that we constitute a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Unless U.S. holders of our common shares make certain elections under U.S. federal income tax rules, they may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Although it is not entirely free from doubt, we believe that it is more likely than not that we constitute a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences may result to U.S. holders of our common shares. Under the PFIC rules, a U.S. holder who disposes, or is deemed to dispose, of our common shares at a gain, or who receives or is deemed to receive certain distributions with respect to our common shares, generally will be required to treat such gain or distributions as ordinary income and pay an interest charge on the tax imposed. Certain elections may be used to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our common shares (“QEF elections” and “mark-to-market” elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income in excess of amounts distributed to you. In addition, if we are a PFIC, our distributions will not qualify for the reduced rate of U.S. federal income tax that applies to qualified dividends paid to non-corporate U.S. taxpayers. The PFIC rules are extremely complex, and prospective U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our being classified as a PFIC. See Item 10.E. “Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” We might not be able to obtain necessary permits, approvals or agreements from one or more government agencies, surface owners, or other third parties, which could hamper our exploration or development activities. There are numerous permits, approvals, and agreements with third parties that will be necessary to enable us to proceed with our development plans and otherwise accomplish our objectives. The government agencies in each country in which we operate have discretion in interpreting various laws, regulations, and policies governing operations under the licenses granted to us. Further, we may be required to enter into agreements with private surface owners to obtain access to, and agreements for the location of, surface facilities. In addition, because many of the laws governing oil and gas operations in the international countries in which we operate have been enacted relatively recently, there is only a relatively short history of the government agencies handling and interpreting those laws, including the various regulations and policies relating to those laws. This short history does not provide extensive precedents or the level of certainty that allows us to predict whether such agencies will act favorably toward us. 5 Table of Contents The governments have broad discretion to interpret requirements for the issuance of drilling permits. Our inability to meet any such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our exploration or development activities. Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends on the success of our exploration, development and production activities in each of our prospects. These activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that we will not find any commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project unprofitable. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or prevent drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • pipeline and processing interruptions or unavailability; • title problems; • adverse weather conditions; • reduced demand for natural gas and oil; • delays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; • shortage of, or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment; and • declines in natural gas and oil prices. Our future drilling activities might not be successful, and drilling success rates overall or within a particular area could decline. We could incur losses by drilling unproductive wells. Shut-in wells, curtailed production and other production interruptions may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, development and acquisition with a substantial number of other companies, including U.S.-based and foreign companies doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking oil and gas exploration licenses and production licenses; • acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing natural gas and oil production; • integrating new technologies; and • acquiring the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, managerial, technological and other resources than we do. These companies are able to pay more for exploratory prospects, and productive oil and gas properties than we can. To the extent competitors are able to pay more for properties than we are paying, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, many of our competitors enjoy technological advantages over us 6 Table of Contents and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Political instability or fundamental changes in the leadership or in the structure of the governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material negative impact on us. Our interests may be affected by political and economic upheavals. Local, regional and world events could cause the jurisdictions in which we operate to change the petroleum laws, tax laws, foreign investment laws, or to revise their policies in a manner that renders our current and future projects unprofitable. Further, the governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate could decide to nationalize the oil and gas industry or impose restrictions and penalties on foreign-owned entities, which could render our projects unprofitable or could prevent us from selling our assets or operating our business. The occurrence of any such fundamental change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to complete the exploration and development of any, or a significant portion of, the oil and gas interests covered by our leases or licenses before they expire. Each license or lease under which we operate has a fixed term. We may be unable to complete our exploration and development efforts prior to the expiration of our licenses or leases. Failure to obtain an extension of the license or lease, or to be granted a new exploration license or lease, or the failure to obtain a license or lease covering a sufficiently large area, would prevent or limit us from continuing to explore and develop a significant portion of the oil and gas interests covered by the license or lease. The determination of the amount of acreage to be covered by the production licenses is in the discretion of the respective governments. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can have a material adverse effect on our cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration for and exploitation, production and sale of oil and gas in each country in which we operate is subject to extensive national and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations, and requires various permits and approvals from various governmental agencies. If these permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we might not be able to conduct our operations as planned. Alternatively, failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including the requirements of any permits, might result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to penalties. Our costs to comply with these numerous laws, regulations and permits are significant. Further, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs and associated liabilities. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Item 4.B. – “Business Overview – Material Effects of Governmental Regulations” and Item 4.D. – “Property, Plant and Equipment.” We do not plan to insure against all potential operating risks. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our natural gas and oil operations. We do not intend to insure against all risks. Our natural gas and oil exploration and production activities will be subject to hazards and risks associated with drilling for, producing and transporting natural gas and oil, and any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling, and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; • regulatory investigations and penalties; and • natural disasters. 7 Table of Contents We might elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to operating hazards. The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosion, blowout, pipe failure, casing collapse, stuck tools, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, loss of or damage to well bores and/or drilling or production equipment, costs of overcoming downhole problems, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Gathering systems and processing facilities are subject to many of the same hazards and any significant problems related to those facilities could adversely affect our ability to market our production. We are dependent on key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of Scott Larsen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. David Campbell, our International Exploration Manager. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key person insurance on either of these individuals. Our small size and the number of staff impacts our internal controls. Due to the limited number of staff, it is not possible to achieve complete segregation of duties, nor do we currently maintain written policies and procedures at our international offices. We must engage accounting assistance with respect to complex, non-routine accounting issues, Canadian GAAP matters, tax compliance, and reporting for our international operations. At the present time, we have no plans to increase the size of our staff. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest. There may be potential conflicts of interest for certain of our officers and directors who are or may become engaged from time to time on their own behalf or on behalf of other companies with which they may serve in the capacity as directors or officers. Certain of our outside directors are officers and/or directors of other publicly traded financial services, crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. See Item 6 – “Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” 