ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information provided in this Annual Report. We currently believe that the risks described below may materially affect us. An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk, and should be considered only by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. Risks related to our industry, business and strategy Because we may not be able to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for some of our products, we may not generate revenues in the amounts we expect, or in the amounts necessary to continue our business. Our existing products as well as our manufacturing facility must meet quality standards and are subject to inspection by a number of domestic regulatory and other governmental and non-governmental agencies. All of our proposed and existing products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and/or other domestic and international governmental, public health agencies, regulatory bodies or non-governmental organizations. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. The process of obtaining required approvals or clearances varies according to the nature of, and uses for, a specific product. These processes can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human or animal clinical trials, sampling activities, and other costly, time-consuming procedures. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that the authority will grant an approval or clearance for that product. Each authority may impose its own requirements and can delay or refuse to grant approval or clearance, even though a product has been approved in another country. The time taken to obtain approval or clearance varies depending on the nature of the application and may result in the passage of a significant period of time from the date of submission of the application. Delays in the approval or clearance processes increase the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling the subject products, and we may determine to devote our resources to different products. Changes in government regulations could increase our costs and could require us to undergo additional trials or procedures, or could make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. Changes in government regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because we may have to incur additional expenses if we are required to change or implement new testing, manufacturing and control procedures. If we are required to devote resources to develop such new procedures, we may not have sufficient resources to devote to research and development, marketing, or other activities that are critical to our business. We can manufacture and sell our products only if we comply with regulations and quality standards established by government agencies such as the FDA and the USDA as well as by non-governmental organizations such as the ISO and WHO. We have implemented a quality system that is intended to comply with applicable regulations. Although FDA approval is not required for the export of our products, there are export regulations promulgated by the FDA that specifically relate to the export of our products that require compliance with FDA quality system regulation (QSRs) and that also require meeting certain documentary requirements regarding the approval of the product in export markets. Although we believe that we meet the regulatory standards required for the export of our products, these regulations could change in a manner that could adversely impact our ability to export our products. Our products may not be able to compete with new diagnostic products or existing products developed by well-established competitors, which would negatively affect our business. The diagnostic industry is focused on the testing of biological specimens in a laboratory or at the point-of-care and is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Our principal competitors often have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several companies produce diagnostic tests that compete directly with our testing product line, including but not limited to, Orasure Technologies, Alere and Trinity Biotech. Furthermore these and/or other companies have or may have products incorporating molecular and/or other advanced technologies that over time could directly compete with our testing product line. As new products incorporating new technologies enter the market, our products may become obsolete or a competitor's products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than ours. Alere's planned introduction of a competing product in the U.S., as well as other competitors, could significantly reduce our U.S. sales. We have granted Alere exclusive rights to market our SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 in the United States and non-exclusive rights in the rest of the world and exclusive rights to market our HIV 1/2 STAT PAK® in the U.S. only. However Alere now has a "Permitted Competing Product" which, if it becomes CLIA waived and successfully launched, will be a significant competitive threat. While we have the option to terminate the Cassette Agreement and to convert Alere's rights under the Barrel Agreement to becoming non-exclusive, there are costs, risks and uncertainties associated with our doing this, particularly because we have not had a commercial organization in the U.S. market. If we were to assume the marketing of these products, we would retain that portion of the selling price of these products that Alere is now receiving, and we would have a potentially significant base of customers in the United States that are familiar with our products (although under Alere's trade names) and that could be introduced to Chembio and potentially to additional products to be marketed to them by Chembio. However, in that case we will incur costs not previously incurred related tos sales, marketing, distribution, and customer/technical support, and these costs are likely to be substantial. In addition, we would face the risk that a significant portion of these customers would not open accounts with us and would instead purchase competing products from Alere or other competitors. 18 In 2006 Alere acquired a division from Abbott Diagnostic located in Japan that manufactured and marketed a rapid HIV test product line called Determine®. The Determine® format is was developed for developing world and remote settings and, central to the needs of that market, the format is essentially a test strip that is integrated into a thin foil wrapper that, when opened, the underside of the wrapper serves as the test surface for applying the blood sample and performing the test. This design reduces costs and shipping weights and volumes and is an advantage for the developing world markets it has served. Some of the disadvantages of the platform are the amount of blood sample that is needed (50 microliters versus 2.5, 5 and 10 for our lateral flow barrel, lateral flow cassette, and DPP® products respectively), the open nature of the test surface, and the absence of a true control that differentiates biological from other kinds of samples. The so-called "3rd generation" version of this product has been marketed for many years and is the leading rapid HIV test that is used in a large majority of the national algorithms of countries funded by PEPFAR and the Global Fund, as well as many other countries in the world. That product is not FDA-approved though it is CE marked. The newest Determine® HIV version, which was developed and manufactured at Alere's subsidiary in Israel, Orgenics, is the so-called "4th Generation" version Determine® test. According to its claims, this product detects HIV antibodies and P24 HIV antigens. Since the P24 antigen is known to occur in HIV-positive individuals' blood samples before antibodies do, based on its performance claims, the 4th generation Determine® test is therefore able to detect HIV infection earlier than tests that solely rely on antibody detection. Chembio's tests, as well as all of the other currently FDA-approved rapid HIV tests, only detect antibodies. There are however laboratory tests that are FDA-approved that are "4th generation" tests, but they are of course neither rapid nor point-of-care. The initial "4th generation" Alere Determine® rapid test product that was also CE marked and that Alere launched internationally some years ago has not been successfully commercialized to the best of our knowledge and at least certain published studies were not favorable for this product. However the 4th generation product that is now FDA-approved was apparently modified as compared to the initial international version of it, and it may perform more satisfactorily. Alere received FDA approval of this modified product in August 2013 and is seeking CLIA-waiver for it. Alere is also aggressively pursuing development of the market for this product in anticipation of receiving CLIA waiver. Although the product can now be sold to moderate complexity certified laboratories, there is very limited supply of the product thus far, and there is no assessment thus far concerning the actual performance of this product in the hands of customers. We believe the price that Alere is charging for this product is substantially higher than our and our competitors' antibody tests, as the antigen claim avails some customers of an additional reimbursement code. Moreover there is support by a number of key opinion leaders for the public health value of such 4th generation tests, and if Alere is able to successfully launch this product, it represents a significant competitive threat to Chembio as well as to each of the other rapid HIV test manufacturers (Orasure and Trinity primarily). During 2011 Biolytical, Inc. of Vancouver, Canada received FDA approval and in 2012 received CLIA waiver of a flow-through rapid HIV test called "INSTI". The technology used in the INSTI test, flow-through, is older than lateral flow, and it requires handling of multiple components (3 vials of solution) to perform the test in multiple steps. However, these steps can be accomplished in less than ten minutes, and the actual test results occur in only one minute after those steps are completed. Therefore sample-to-result time is shorter than any of the competitive products. The product also has good performance claims. There are settings where that reduced total test time, despite the multiple steps required, may be a distinct advantage, and we believe Biolytical has made some progress in penetrating certain public health markets. Therefore, even though our lateral flow products currently enjoy a substantial market share in the U.S. rapid HIV test market of approximately 30%, and we have an additional rapid HIV test, the DPP® HIV 1/2 Assay, there a number of risks and uncertainties concerning current and anticipated developments in this market. Although we have no specific knowledge of any other new product that is a significant competitive threat to our product, or that will render our products obsolete, if we fail to maintain and enhance our competitive position or fail to introduce new products and product features, our customers may decide to use products developed by our competitors, which could result in a loss of revenues and cash flow. More generally, the point-of-care diagnostics industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. As new technologies become introduced into the point-of-care diagnostic testing market, we may be required to commit considerable additional efforts, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products. We may not have the available time and resources to accomplish this, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which would materially harm our operating results. Although we own our DPP® patent, lateral flow technology is still a competitive platform to DPP®, and lateral flow technology has a lower cost of manufacture than DPP® products. Although the DPP® platform has shown improved sensitivity as compared with conventional lateral flow platforms in a number of studies, several factors go into the development and performance attributes of products. Therefore the ability of our products to successfully compete will depend on several other factors including but not limited to our having a patented rapid test platform technology, that differentiate DPP® from lateral flow as well as from other diagnostic platform technologies. 19 We believe that our Dual Path Platform® is outside of the scope of currently issued patents in the field of lateral flow technology, thereby offering the possibility of a greater freedom to operate. However there can be no assurance that our patents or our products incorporating the patent claims will not be challenged at some time in the future. New developments in health treatments or new non-diagnostic products may reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. The development and commercialization of products outside of the diagnostics industry could adversely affect sales of our products. For example, the development of a safe and effective vaccine to HIV or treatments for other diseases or conditions that our products are designed to detect, could reduce, or eventually eliminate the demand for our HIV or other diagnostic products and result in a loss of revenues. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively introduce and market our products, which could materially harm our operating results. Introducing and achieving market acceptance for our rapid HIV tests and other new products will require substantial marketing efforts and will require us and/or our contract partners, sales agents, and/or distributors to make significant expenditures of time and money. In some instances we will be significantly or totally reliant on the marketing efforts and expenditures of our contract partners, sales agents, and/or distributors. If they do not have or commit the expertise and resources to effectively market the products that we manufacture, our operating results will be materially harmed. The success of our business depends on, in addition to the market success of our products, our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity or through borrowing, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds on attractive terms and/or in amounts necessary to continue our business, or at all. We have been profitable for five consecutive years. Nevertheless, prior to 2009 we sustained significant operating losses since 2004, and we have incurred operating losses during certain quarterly periods, as recently as the fourth quarter of 2013. At December 31, 2013, we had a stockholders' equity of $20.3 million and a working capital surplus of $14.0 million. The Company estimates that its resources are sufficient to fund its needs through the end of 2014 and beyond, particularly due to the fact that it issued new common shares in 2013 in an equity financing that resulted in net proceeds to the company of approximately $5.4 million. Nevertheless we may have to make significant financial commitments to invest in a sales and marketing organization, regulatory approvals, research and development including new technologies, and production capacity. The Company's liquidity and cash requirements will depend on several factors. These factors include (1) the level of revenues; (2) the extent to which, if any, that revenue level improves operating cash flows; (3) the Company's investments in research and development, facilities, marketing, regulatory approvals, and other investments it may determine to make; and (4) the Company's investment in capital equipment and the extent to which it improves cash flow through operating efficiencies. There are no assurances that the Company will remain profitable or generate positive cash flow in 2014 or, in the alternative, be successful in raising sufficient capital to fund its needs after 2014. We experienced an increase in revenues in 2013, though this increase was primarily attributable to a single purchase order in the approximate amount of $5.3 million that we received from a leading international procurement organization on behalf of a large screening initiative that was being undertaken by one country. Increased sales to Alere and increased non-product revenues attributable to sponsored research and development programs also contributed to our increased revenues in 2013. In order for our 2014 revenues to be at the same level as in 2013, or increase from that level, we would need for the large international purchase order to be renewed, or to be able to replace this purchase order with other revenues from other customers. There can be no assurance that this will occur. A similar situation occurred in 2013 when we experienced a significant decrease in our revenues from FIOCRUZ, and we were able to more than offset this decrease with the above-mentioned purchase order. Nevertheless there can be no assurance that we will have a repeat in 2014 of the large order received in 2013, or that we will be able to replace it with other revenues from other sources. Moreover, our U.S. market sales will be difficult to predict in 2014 given the anticipated introduction of a new rapid test by Alere, and the uncertainty as to whether or to what extent it will be successful in cannibalizing sales of our products, regardless of whether we modify or terminate our agreements with Alere. If we terminate our cassette agreement with Alere and/or if we convert the barrel agreement to a non-exclusive agreement with Alere, we would expect to experience higher average revenue per unit for the associated products due to the fact that, under the Cassette Agreement and the Barrel Agreement, we currently sell these products to Alere at a significantly lower price than the price at which Alere then resells to customers (including re-sellers and distributors) in the United States. However this could only occur after any inventory that Alere has accumulated of our products is run off, which may take several months. Moreover, Alere could heavily discount these products, although we don't believe it is in Alere's interest to do so. In addition, if we are marketing either or both of these products we will incur substantial costs associated with establishing a sales and marketing organization for these products and in establishing channel distribution partners. Finally, we would need to pay a royalty of 8.5% to Alere on sales of these products in the United States for the duration of the relevant lateral flow patent, which is until February 2015. 20 We believe that underlying demand for HIV rapid testing in the United States remains strong, and that the restoration of some of the funding cutbacks from sequestration and the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and of the United States Preventive Services Task Force recommendations will have a positive impact on the development of the market. Further, Chembio's products are well established and relied upon by a large installed base of customers over many years of use in the U.S. global market, and we believe this is a strong advantage. We also believe that upon attainment of CLIA waiver, of which there can be no assurance, that our DPP® HIV 1/2 Assay for use with oral fluid or bloods samples will be able to address new customers that were previously not available to Chembio with its lateral blood tests marketed by Alere. However the timing of the CLIA waiver has been delayed and it cannot be assured, and development of new customers with this product is costly and time-consuming. Finally, we believe that short-term reductions in sales attributable to sales by Alere of inventory already purchased from Chembio will eventually be offset by stocking orders placed by certain distributors, although there can be no assurance of this. We are attempting to increase international sales of our products, and we have invested in additional resources in connection with this effort; but as we have experienced for many years, the nature of our international business is such that it can be volatile from period to period, depending on ordering patterns of donor-funded programs. Furthermore, a number of factors can slow or prevent sales increases or cause sales decreases, or substantially increase the cost of achieving sales assuming they are achieved: · economic conditions and the absence of or reduction in available funding sources; · regulatory requirements and customs regulations; · cultural and political differences; · foreign exchange rates, currency fluctuations and tariffs; · dependence on and difficulties in managing international distributors or representatives; · the creditworthiness of foreign entities; · difficulties in foreign accounts receivable collection; · competition; · pricing; and · any inability we may have in maintaining or increasing revenues. If we are unable to maintain or increase our revenues from domestic and/or international customers our operating results will be materially harmed. 21 Although we have an ethics and anti-corruption policy in place, and have no knowledge or reason to know of any practices by our employees, agents or distributors that could be construed as in violation of such policies, our business includes sales of products to countries where there is or may be widespread corruption. Chembio has a policy in place prohibiting its employees, distributors and agents from engaging in corrupt business practices, including activities prohibited by the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Nevertheless, because we work through independent sales agents and distributors (and do not have any employees or subsidiaries) outside the United States, we do not have control over the day-to-day activities of such independent agents and distributors. In addition, in the donor- funded markets in Africa where we sell our products, there is significant oversight from PEPFAR, the Global Fund, and advisory committees comprised of technical experts concerning the development and establishment of national testing protocols. This is a process that includes an overall assessment of a product which includes extensive product performance evaluations including five active collaborations and manufacturer's quality systems, as well as price and delivery. In Brazil where we have had a total of six product collaborations with FIOCRUZ, those programs that our products are or may be deployed in are all funded by the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Although FIOCRUZ is affiliated with the Brazilian Ministry of Health, and is its sole customer, FIOCRUZ is not the exclusive supplier for the Ministry of Health. However because each of our collaborations with FIOCRUZ incorporates a technology transfer aspect, we believe we have a competitive advantage versus other suppliers to the Brazilian Ministry of Health, assuming other aspects of our product offering through FIOCRUZ are otherwise competitive in comparison. We have no knowledge or reason to know of any activities by our employees, distributors or sales agents of any actions which could be in violation of the FCPA, although there can be no assurance of this. We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be sure that these laws or agreements adequately protect our rights. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, strategic relationships, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and name recognition are essential to our success. All our management personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. If personnel leave our employment, in some cases we would be required to protect our intellectual property rights pursuant to common law theories which may be less protective than provisions of employment, non-competition or non-disclosure agreements. We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, enter into license agreements for various materials and methods employed in our products, and enter into strategic relationships for distribution of the products. These strategies afford only limited protection. We currently have some foreign patents issued, and we are seeking additional patent protection in several other foreign jurisdictions for our DPP® technology. We have licenses to reagents (antigens and peptides) used in several of our products and products under development. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary assets, and respect the intellectual property rights of others, we participate in several markets where intellectual property rights protections are of little or no value. This can place our products and our company at a competitive disadvantage. Despite efforts we make to protect our confidential information, such as entering confidentiality agreements in connection with new business opportunities, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to expend substantial resources in asserting or protecting our intellectual property rights, or in defending suits related to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights could substantially delay product development or commercialization activities because some of our available funds would be diverted away from our business activities. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights might include state, federal or foreign court litigation as well as patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. To facilitate development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining and maintaining these licenses, which may not be available, may require the payment of up-front fees and royalties. In addition, if we are unable to obtain these types of licenses, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed or precluded. 22 Our continued growth depends on retaining our current key employees and attracting additional qualified personnel, and we may not be able to do so. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the skills and experience of our executive officers, management and sales, marketing, operations and scientific staff. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical products businesses, geographic considerations, our ability to offer competitive compensation, relocation packages, benefits, and/or other reasons. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to effectively manufacture, sell and market our products to meet the demands of our strategic partners in a timely fashion, or to support internal research and development programs. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced scientists and other personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. We have entered into employment contracts with our Chief Executive Officer and President, Lawrence Siebert, our Chief Operating Officer Sharon Klugewicz and our Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Javan Esfandiari. Due to the specific knowledge and experience of these executives regarding the industry, technology and market, the loss of the services of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The contract with Ms. Klugewicz has a term of two years ending May 2015. The contract with Mr. Esfandiari has a term of three years ending March 2016. The Company has obtained a key man insurance policy on Mr. Esfandiari. The contract with Mr. Siebert provides that Mr. Siebert will serve as the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company through May 11, 2014, and Mr. Siebert has advised the Company that he intends to retire from the Company on or before that date. Upon Mr. Siebert's announcement in 2013, of his retirement plans, the Company began a search for a new CEO. We believe our success depends in part on the continued funding of and our ability to participate in large testing programs in the U.S. and worldwide. Funding of these and or similar programs may be reduced, discontinued and/or we may not be able to participate for other reasons. We believe it to be in our best interests to meaningfully participate in large testing programs. Moreover many of these programs are funded by governments and other donors, and there can be no assurance that funding will not be reduced or completely discontinued. Participation in these programs also requires alignment and engagement with the many other participants in these programs, including the World Health Organization, U.S. Center for Disease Control, U.S. Agency for International Development, foreign governments and their agencies, non-governmental organizations, and HIV service organizations. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to participate in these programs, our operating results could be materially harmed. In December 2013 President Obama signed into law the PEPFAR Stewardship and Oversight Act, which is the most recent reauthorization of PEPFAR. However, unlike the 2008 PEPFAR authorization, which authorized approximately $45 billion, the new law doesn't authorize a specific dollar amount for funding. Nevertheless it is widely anticipated that PEPFAR will continue to enjoy strong funding; the FY14 budget has $6 billion for global HIV/AIDS assistance, including $4 billion for PEPFAR. Although we were profitable in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability in 2014. From the inception of Chembio Diagnostic Systems, Inc. in 1985 through the period ended December 31, 2008, we incurred net losses, and we have only become profitable during the last five years. In 2014, we expect to make substantial expenditures for sales and marketing, regulatory submissions, product development, and production and warehouse capacity and other purposes. Without a substantial increase in revenues, this will impact profitability at least in the short term. Our ability to continue profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products based on having made the aforementioned expenditures to reduce production and other costs, and to successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. If we are unable to increase our revenues at a rate that is sufficient to achieve profitability, or adequately control and reduce our operating costs, our operating results would be materially harmed. To the extent that we are unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance or that we incur product liability exposure that is not covered by our product liability insurance, our operating results could be materially harmed. We may be held liable if any of our products, or any product which is made with the use or incorporation of any of the technologies belonging to us, causes injury of any type or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or usage. We have obtained product liability insurance even though we have never received a product liability claim, and have generally not seen product liability claims for screening tests that are accompanied by appropriate disclaimers. Nevertheless, in the event there is a claim, this insurance may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, as we attempt to bring new products to market, we may need to increase our product liability coverage which could be a significant additional expense that we may not be able to afford. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost to protect us, we may be forced to abandon efforts to commercialize our products or those of our strategic partners, which would reduce our revenues. 23 Risks related to our Common Stock Our Common Stock continues to be illiquid, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing market prices. The average daily trading volume of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ market was 50,000 shares per day over the three months ended March 1, 2014 as compared to less than 44,000 shares per day over the three months ended March 1, 2013. Therefore, there has been consistency in the liquidity of our stock based on this comparison, and our stock began trading on NASDAQ in early June, 2012. However, improvements in the liquidity of our stock depends on several factors, including but not limited to the financial results of the Company and overall market conditions, so there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue, or even be maintained. Decreased trading volume in our stock would make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Our management and larger stockholders exercise significant control over our Company. As of March 3, 2014, our named executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders beneficially owned approximately 14.6% of our voting power. In addition, we have two large institutional investors that beneficially owned 7.2% and 4.8%, respectively of the stock. For the foreseeable future, and assuming these ownership percentages continue to pertain, to the extent that these parties vote similarly, they may be able to exercise significant control over many matters requiring approval by the board of directors or our stockholders. As a result, they may be able to: · control the composition of our board of directors; · control our management and policies; · determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to stockholders; and · act in each of their own interests, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of each other or the interests of the other stockholders. 24 