Risk Factors.” General Chembio Diagnostics, Inc. (referred to collectively with its subsidiary as the “Company”) and its subsidiary develop, manufacture and market rapid point-of-care diagnostic tests (POCTs) that detect infectious diseases. The Company’s main products presently commercially available are four rapid tests for the detection of HIV antibodies. Three of these products employ lateral flow technology, can be used with all blood matrices as samples, and are manufactured in a standard cassette format, a dipstick format, and a proprietary barrel format. The tests employing the cassette and proprietary barrel formats were approved by the FDA in 2006 and are distributed by Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. (“Inverness”) in the United States. Our fourth rapid HIV test, which we more recently developed on our patented Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology, detects antibodies to HIV in oral fluid samples, as well as all blood matrices. On March 13, 2007, we were issued United States patent #7,189,522 for our Dual Path Platform (DPP®) rapid test system. Additional patent protection for DPP® has issued or is pending worldwide. We participate in the point-of-care segment of the nearly $40 billion global in-vitro diagnostic market. The global point-of-care segment of the IVD industry is estimated to be $6-8 billion with an overall growth rate of 7% per annum. POCTs, by providing prompt and early diagnosis, can reduce patient stays, lower overall costs, improve therapeutic interventions and improve patient outcomes as a result of prompt and early diagnosis. They can also prevent needless hospital admissions, simplify testing procedures, avoid delays from central lab batching, and eliminate the need for return visits. This is not to say that every test should be done at the point-of-care. A careful analysis needs to be performed when evaluating whether there is a need for a rapid point-of-care test versus a laboratory test. In the areas of infectious and sexually transmitted diseases (such as Influenza and HIV for example), the utility of a rapid point–of-care test has been well established, and large markets have been established for these kinds of tests globally. It is within these areas of infectious diseases and sexually transmitted diseases, which tend to have the higher growth rates in the point-of-care segment where we have focused and will continue to focus our business, with an emphasis on the U.S. market. 3 PRODUCTS Lateral Flow Rapid HIV Tests The major component of our revenue growth in 2009 was increased sales of our lateral flow rapid HIV tests and related components. A large percentage of individuals that are HIV positive worldwide are unaware of their status. Part of the reason for this is that even those that do get tested in public health settings will often not return or call back for their test results if samples have to be sent out to a laboratory which can take at least several days to process. The increased availability, greater efficacy and reduced costs for anti-retroviral treatments (ARVs) for HIV is also having a tremendous impact on the demand for testing, as the stigma associated with the disease is lessened, and the ability to resume normal activities is substantially improved, providing a positive message to those potentially infected. All four of our rapid HIV tests are qualitative “yes/no” tests for the detection of antibodies to HIV 1 & 2 with results available within approximately 15 minutes. The tests differ principally only in the method of sample collection and test procedure, flexibility with different sample types, and cost of manufacture. Prior to our agreement with Inverness and, more recently, the development of our DPP® HIV 1/2 Screening Assay for use with oral fluid or blood samples, our rapid HIV tests had been marketed under either our SURE CHECK® or STAT-PAK® trademarks. Pursuant to our agreement with Inverness, the SURE CHECK® product (which incorporates a proprietary barrel format) is now being marketed by Inverness as Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 and the cassette format of our HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK (we also have a third product known as HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK dipstick) is now being marketed by Inverness in the United States as Clearview® HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK®. We continue to market our STAT-PAK® cassette and dipstick outside the United States through other marketing channels. In addition, in 2009 we amended the agreement with Inverness, which previously had global exclusivity for the barrel format product, to a non-exclusive outside of North America. Regulatory Status: The FDA approved our Pre-Market Applications (hereinafter “PMA”; see “Governmental Regulations” and Glossary) in April 2006 for our SURE CHECK HIV 1/2 (and also now Inverness’ Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2) and for our HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK (now Inverness’ Clearview® HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK in the United States only) products. A Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (“CLIA”) waiver was granted by the FDA for the HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK in November 2006 and for the two Inverness Clearview® brands in October 2007. CLIA waiver is required in order to market the products for use in hospital emergency rooms, public health clinics and physicians’ offices, where the level of training is traditionally less than the training at clinical laboratories and laboratories in hospitals. These settings constitute the largest portion of the available market for our products. Our third lateral flow rapid HIV test, HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK Dipstick and our DPP® oral fluid HIV test, though not FDA approved, qualify under FDA export regulations to sell, subject to any required approval by the importing country, to customers outside the United States. The dipstick product is our most competitively priced version of our three rapid HIV tests, and was designed primarily for resource-constrained, donor-funded markets that have large test volume needs. In addition, we have received approval from a number of potential importing countries for our three lateral flow HIV tests. .. All three of our lateral flow HIV tests have qualified for procurement under the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (“PEPFAR”). In October 2009 we submitted supplemental documentation that had been requested to our Notified Body in connection with our efforts to obtain CE marking for the two FDA-approved rapid HIV test products. In late January 2010 we were informed that additional data was being requested, and we are determining the time and cost. DPP® HIV 1&2 Assay for Use with Oral Fluid (or Blood) Samples We have also completed development of and are now commercializing our DPP® HIV 1&2 Assay for use with oral fluid samples. Oral fluid testing is an established alternative to blood testing for diagnostic tests, including HIV tests. It provides a fast and easy method for sample collection, enabling non-medical professionals to collect samples for testing. It is also often patient preferred, providing a more comfortable test. In certain public health clinics, staffs choose not to handle blood specimens; thus, oral sample collection provides a viable alternative. The DPP® HIV test, which is based on our patented DPP® technology, also includes a patent-pending system comprised of an oral fluid swab and sample buffer vial. This feature enables samples to be fully extracted in buffer solution before application to the test device, and also allows the extracted sample to be stored and retested. Internal and field studies have shown sensitivity and specificity well in excess of FDA requirements on oral fluid as well as all blood matrices. Regulatory Status: During 2008 Chembio conducted extensive internal panel studies of this product and a limited field study that suggested outstanding performance; two much larger field evaluations were completed in 2009 that will supplement our pending U.S. clinical studies. During the second half of 2009 we prepared a proposed clinical trial protocol and submitted it to the FDA in support of our application for an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) which we submitted and was granted during the fourth quarter of 2009. This approved protocol permits us to move forward with the clinical trials performance data, along with other required product and manufacturing data, in support of a Pre-Marketing Approval (PMA) application to the FDA. We anticipate commencing and completing the clinical trials and submitting the PMA application during 2010 and receiving approval of the PMA during 2011. 4 PARTNERS INVOLVED IN MARKETING OUR HIV PRODUCTS On September 29, 2006 we executed marketing and license agreements with Inverness. The marketing agreements (one for each of the two FDA approved products) each provide Inverness with a 10-year exclusive right for the marketing of our rapid HIV tests in the United States. The agreements also grant us a license to Inverness’ lateral flow patents that may be applicable to certain of our other products, including those that we had under development at the time of the grant of the license. As part of these agreements, we also settled litigation that had been ongoing with another company, StatSure Diagnostics, Inc.(SDS), relating to the proprietary barrel device that is incorporated into our Sure Check® HIV 1/2 product, which is also marketed exclusively as Inverness Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 in the United States, Europe and Asia. SDS is a party to the marketing agreement with Inverness and Chembio that pertains to that product. We are beginning to register our DPP® oral fluid HIV test in selected markets receiving funding from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). PEPFAR recently approved our product as qualified for procurement pursuant to the USAID waiver procedure (for use with oral fluid or blood samples). Also, as described above, our DPP® oral fluid HIV test is one of three products pending regulatory approval in Brazil pursuant to OEM technology transfer, supply and license agreements we have in place with FIOCRUZ as described below. We are considering various options for marketing this product in the United States including a direct sales model for certain or all market segments. We have appointed distributors and OEM partners internationally for our lateral flow HIV tests. Our largest markets for our lateral flow HIV rapid tests outside the United States are several countries in Africa, Brazil (OEM) and Mexico. During 2009 we appointed Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. as our distributor of our HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK® product in Mexico. We have distributors interested in distributing our products in Europe once we receive the CE Marking, for which there can be no assurance. OTHER LATERAL FLOW RAPID TESTS We also have commercially available lateral flow tests for Chagas Disease and a line of tests for the detection of tuberculosis in humans and certain animal species. These products represented approximately 1.5% of our product revenues during 2009. . The Company entered the rapid test market segment with lateral flow technology and for many years, even before the development of our lateral flow HIV tests, our revenues were almost entirely based on this technology, primarily pregnancy tests. Because of the limited license we entered with Inverness to manufacture and market only certain applications of lateral flow technology, and also because we have now developed our own patent-protected rapid point-of-care technology platform (DPP®) which we believe provides certain advantages over lateral flow technologies, all of our other products and products that we are developing utilize this patented platform. OTHER DPP® PRODUCTS Chembio-Branded DPP® Products DPP® Syphilis Screen & Confirm- DPP® Syphilis Screen & Confirm is a simple multiplex point-of-care test that can detect both non-treponemal and treponemal antibodies to syphilis from a whole blood sample within 20 minutes. Studies have been performed at the CDC on a total of 459 banked specimens of which 219 were characterized as positive and 240 as negative by RPR (standard lab test for non-treponemal). Out of the 459 samples, 289 were characterized as positive and 170 characterized as negative by the TPPA test (standard lab treponemal test). DPP® Syphilis Screen & Confirm non-treponemal had a sensitivity of 90.5% and a specificity of 100% compared to RPR and a sensitivity of 93% and a specificity of 92% compared to TPPA. This assay offers several market advantages over the current two-tier system of screening and confirmatory testing. This is the first assay in the United States that would afford the opportunity for a single-visit diagnosis and treatment. Retrospective studies have been performed at Chembio and CDC during 2008 and 2009. A multi-phase field study sponsored by the WHO and with participation by CDC is ongoing. Interference and cross-reactivity studies have been completed at an external laboratory. FDA regulatory clearance for this test is available through a 510(K) submission. The FDA has approved our proposed protocol (IDE) for the prospective clinical trials that will be part of this. We plan to commence the regulatory activities for FDA clearance during the second quarter of 2010 and anticipate that clearance will be granted in the first quarter of 2011. OEM DPP® Products Oswaldo Cruz Foundation OEM DPP® Agreements During 2008 we signed four agreements with the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ) in Brazil relating to products based on our DPP® technology for Leptospirosis, Canine Leishmaniasis, screening for HIV 1/2 with oral fluid samples, and a 5-band multiplex point-of-care confirmation test for HIV 1&2. These products will initially be manufactured by Chembio but will be distributed by FIOCRUZ under its Bio-Manguinhos Division’s label. These entities are affiliated with the Brazilian Ministry of Health. We have completed development of three of these products (Leishmaniasis and the HIV screening and confirmation tests), and we have substantially completed development of the Leptospirosis test. The leishmaniasis and confirmatory tests have been submitted for and are still pending regulatory approval in Brazil; the HIV screening test regulatory submission has not been made yet. We now expect that these products will be approved by Brazilian regulatory authorities during the second quarter of 2010. These agreements contemplate an eventual transfer of the manufacture of the subject products to FIOCRUZ over stipulated periods of time subject to Chembio first receiving orders for a minimum amount of products for manufacture by Chembio; thereafter Chembio will receive royalty payments for a number of years based on product sold by FIOCRUZ to the public health programs in Brazil. In December 2009 Chembio received purchase orders from FIOCRUZ for the three products for which development has been completed and that are pending regulatory approval in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.4 million. The orders are of course in each case subject to the attainment of regulatory approval for the relevant product, of which there can be no assurance. In addition, upon attainment of regulatory approval of these three products, Chembio will be due fees from FIOCRUZ stipulated in these agreements in the aggregate amount of approximately $900,000. 5 Our Rapid Test Technologies All of our commercially available current products employ either in-licensed lateral flow technology or our own patented Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology and are visually read. Certain of our new DPP® products will incorporate reader technologies that can help record and report test results and reduce subjectivity of results sometimes found with visually read tests. Both lateral flow technology and DPP® allow the development of accurate, low cost, easy-to-perform, single-use diagnostic tests for rapid, visual detection of specific antigen-antibody complexes on a test strip. This format provides a test that is simple (requires neither electricity nor expensive equipment for test execution or reading, nor skilled personnel for test interpretation), rapid (turnaround time approximately 15 minutes), safe (minimizes handling of potentially infected specimens), non-invasive (requires 5-20 micro liters of whole blood easily obtained with a finger prick, or alternatively, serum or plasma), stable (24 months at room temperature storage in the case of our HIV tests), and highly reproducible. We can also use hand held and desktop readers to objectively measure, quantify, record and report test results. Certain of the products we have and/or are developing incorporate some of these readers, and we are developing other products that may be used with or will require use of a reader. Target Market Rapid HIV Tests There are approximately 53,000 new diagnoses of HIV infection in the United States each year, according to the CDC. In time, most of these infections progress to AIDS. The CDC estimates that approximately 1.1 million individuals in the U.S. are living with HIV, with an estimated 250,000 Americans, or more than 25%, unaware that they are infected. It is these 250,000 infected people that account for 54% of all new infections per year. Part of the reason for this is that even those that do get tested in public health settings will often not return or call back for their test results if samples have to be sent out to a laboratory which can take at least several days to process. Healthcare officials believe that by making more people aware of their HIV status, it will reduce the number of HIV transmissions. Rapid HIV testing in the United States has now developed into a 5-6 million test market. This is from zero in 2003 when Orasure received FDA approval for the first rapid HIV test. We believe that the US professional HIV rapid test market (not including the OTC market) has the potential to increase to 15-18 million tests over the next several years, which would represent about 50% of all HIV tests done in the United States for clinical purposes. Assuming an average price to the manufacturers of $10.00 per test, a total potential market of $180 million U.S. market is inferred. In 2006, the outlook for HIV testing was given a big boost with the release by the CDC of new guidelines for HIV testing. These new CDC recommendations now in place provide that an HIV test should be given as a routine test like any other for all patients between 13 and 64 years of age, regardless of risk, with an opt-out screening option and focused testing procedural (pre and post test counseling) guidelines. Adoption of the 2006 CDC recommendations by a number of states has begun to have an impact. In addition, in December 2009 Medicare issued new rules that now require it to pay for HIV tests for individuals covered by Medicare. In the United States, the need for rapid HIV tests has been developing first in the public health and hospital emergency room and labor and delivery room segments, and to some extent also in the physicians’ office laboratories. Of the estimated 25-30 million HIV tests performed in clinical settings in the United States, rapid HIV tests now account for approximately 20-25% of this market, or approximately 6 million tests of this total. We believe that the United States market share available to rapid HIV tests will grow by approximately 15-20% per annum. In the international market, PEPFAR, the large United States funded international AIDS relief program focused on fifteen countries, was reauthorized in 2008 for up to $48 billion for FY2009-2012 (up from $15 billion in 2004-2008). PEPFAR, The Global Fund and other global initiatives have succeeded in making life-saving treatments available now to well in excess of one million individuals. PEPFAR has a goal by 2013 of treating three million infected individuals and averting 12 million new cases. To achieve these goals more and more people are likely to get tested. As more effective treatments become available at lower costs there is a clearer reason to be tested. Other programs such as UNAIDS are significant participants in the global effort to prevent further transmission and save the lives of those already infected, as well as care for their families that are impacted. 6 For oral fluid testing we believe that in several markets there is a meaningful segment of individuals who will be more inclined to be tested for HIV when offered a non-invasive test. The most well-established market for oral fluid HIV testing is the United States. There is also now an opportunity to participate in the over-the-counter market for HIV tests. This opportunity received important support by the FDA and CDC in November 2009. While initial support from public health and regulatory officials was indicated in 2006, a follow-up November 2009 meeting of the FDA Blood Products Advisory Committee on this subject confirmed the support by public health and HIV positive community advocates, and provided further clarity as to the regulatory pathway for such market. Syphilis Rapid Test Recent data indicate that approximately 70,000-100,000 new cases of syphilis are occurring annually in the U.S. The CDC's latest Sexually Transmitted Disease study, released in November 2009, reported that: 1) although only 13,500 of new syphilis cases were reported in 2008 (<20% of total amount of estimated new cases), that is still an 18 percent increase from 2007, suggesting increased numbers of new cases, 2) 63 percent of syphilis cases were among men who have sex with men, and 3) syphilis rates among women increased 36 percent from 2007 to 2008. Syphilis can be treated with antibiotics, but untreated can cause pelvic inflammatory disease, infertility, ectopic pregnancy and can infect newborns. Treatment cannot be provided without a confirmed diagnosis of an active, previously untreated case of syphilis. Current testing algorithms require two different tests (called non-treponemal and treponemal markers), each requiring trained personnel in laboratory settings and several days to receive back results, in order to confirm an active, previously untreated case. This product is able to accurately detect the presence or absence of each of these markers in one rapid point-of-care test device, thereby enabling prescription of antibiotics at the point-of-care where there is the presence of both markers. Development of the POC market for syphilis testing is expected to be comparable to the development of the POC market for HIV testing, as there is a significant public health value to being able to provide results at the point-of-care. There are several ways to assess the market opportunity for this unique rapid test, although we believe the U.S. rapid test opportunity is a minimum of 3 million tests, which is approximately 20% of the total number syphilis tests performed in the United States today. Unlike HIV testing, where a positive result first requires a confirmatory test, and even then further tests to measure viral load before expensive treatment decisions are made, an individual with a confirmed active case of syphilis can be prescribed antibiotics immediately. Marketing Strategy Our marketing strategy is to: · Support, review and assess the marketing and distribution efforts of our rapid HIV tests by Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. Inverness, which is a leading marketer of point-of-care diagnostic products, has significantly expanded its distribution footprint since we signed our agreement with Inverness, and we believe that this will enhance opportunities for Inverness to market our rapid HIV tests. In particular, Inverness has been very active in acquiring point-of-care product lines serving hospital emergency rooms and physicians’ offices. · Leverage our DPP® intellectual property and regulated product development and manufacturing experience to continue creating new collaborations where Chembio can be the exclusive development and manufacturing partner supporting leading marketing organizations. · Establish strong distribution relationships for our Chembio-branded products in the U.S and abroad and establish a direct sales and marketing organization that is focused in the public health market segment. 7 Competition The diagnostics industry is a multi-billion dollar international industry and is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources. Industry competition in general is based on the following: · Scientific and technological capability; · Proprietary know-how; · The ability to develop and market products and processes; · The ability to obtain FDA or other required regulatory approvals; · The ability to manufacture products that meet applicable FDA requirements, (i.e. FDA’s Quality System Regulations) (see Governmental Regulation section); · The ability to manufacture products cost-effectively; · Access to adequate capital; · The ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and · The availability of patent protection. We believe our scientific and technological capabilities and our proprietary know-how relating to our in-licensed lateral flow technology rapid tests and to our proprietary know-how related to our patented dual path platform technology, particularly for the development and manufacture of tests for the detection of antibodies to infectious diseases such as HIV, are very strong. Our ability to develop and market other products is in large measure dependent on our having additional resources and/or collaborative relationships. Some of our product development efforts have been funded on a project or milestone basis. We believe that our proprietary know-how in lateral flow technology and in our Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology has been instrumental in our obtaining the collaborations we have and that we continue to pursue. We believe that the patent protection that we have with our Dual Path Platform (DPP®) enhances our ability to develop more profitable collaborative relationships and to license out the technology. Research and Development During 2009 and 2008, $2.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively, were spent on research and development (including regulatory activities). These expenses were in part underwritten by funding from R&D contracts and grants of $1.3 million in 2009 and $.7 million in 2008. All of our new product development activities involve employment of our Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology. These activities include completing development of certain products and making significant progress toward the development of additional products. Research and development and regulatory activities are explained in detail in Part II Item 7. Employees At December 31, 2009, we employed 104 people, including 103 full-time employees. We have entered into employment contracts with our President, Lawrence Siebert, and our Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Javan Esfandiari. Due to the specific knowledge and experience of these executives regarding the industry, technology and market, the loss of the services of either one of them would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. The contract with Mr. Siebert, provides that Mr. Siebert will serve as the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company for an additional three-year term through May 11, 2012. The contract with Mr. Esfandiari has a term of three years ending March 2013. We have obtained a key man insurance policy for Mr. Esfandiari. Governmental Regulation The manufacturing and marketing of the Company’s existing and proposed diagnostic products are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), certain state and local agencies, and/or comparable regulatory bodies in other countries. These regulations govern almost all aspects of development, production and marketing, including product testing, authorizations to market, labeling, promotion, manufacturing and record keeping. The Company’s FDA and USDA regulated products require some form of action by each agency before they can be marketed in the United States, and, after approval or clearance, the Company must continue to comply with other FDA requirements applicable to marketed products, e.g. Quality Systems (for medical devices). Failure to comply with the FDA’s requirements can lead to significant penalties, both before and after approval or clearance. There are two review procedures by which medical devices can receive FDA clearance or approval. Some products may qualify for clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, in which the manufacturer provides a pre-market notification that it intends to begin marketing the product, and shows that the product is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed product (i.e., that it has the same intended use and is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness). In some cases, the submission must include data from human clinical studies. Marketing may commence when the FDA issues a clearance letter finding such substantial equivalence. FDA clearance of our DPP® Syphilis Screen & Confirm test will be by means of a 510(k) submission. 8 If the medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) procedure (either because it is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device or because it is required by statute and the FDA’s implementing regulations to have an approved application), the FDA must approve a Pre-Marketing Application (“PMA”) application before marketing can begin. PMA’s must demonstrate, among other matters, that the medical device provides a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. A PMA application is typically a complex submission, including the results of non-clinical and clinical studies. Preparing a PMA application is a much more expensive, detailed and time-consuming process as compared with a 510(K) pre-market notification. The Company has approved PMAs for the two rapid HIV tests now marketed by Inverness Medical as Clearview® Complete HIV 1-2 and Clearview® HIV 1-2 STAT PAK®. FDA approval of our DPP® HIV screening assay for use with oral fluid or blood samples will be pursued by means of a PMA application. The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1988 (“CLIA”) prohibits laboratories from performing in vitro tests for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of, the health of human beings unless there is in effect for such laboratories a certificate issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (via the FDA) applicable to the category of examination or procedure performed. Although a certificate is not required for the Company, it considers the applicability of the requirements of CLIA in the design and development of its products. The statutory definition of “laboratory” is very broad, and many of our customers are considered labs. A CLIA waiver will remove certain quality control and other requirements that must be met for certain customers to use the Company’s products and this is in fact critical to the marketability of a product into the point-of-care diagnostics market. The Company has received a CLIA waiver for each of the two rapid HIV tests now marketed by Inverness Medical as Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 and Clearview® HIV 1/2 STAT PAK®. The CLIA waiver was granted by the FDA for HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK on November 20, 2006 and for the Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 on October 22, 2007. In addition, the FDA regulates the export of medical devices that have not been approved for marketing in the United States. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act contains general requirements for any medical device that may not be sold in the United States and is intended for export. Specifically, a medical device intended for export is not deemed to be adulterated or misbranded if the product: (1) complies with the specifications of the foreign purchaser; (2) is not in conflict with the laws of the country to which it is intended for export; (3) is prominently labeled on the outside of the shipping package that it is intended for export; and (4) is not sold or offered for sale in the United States. However, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act does permit the export of devices to any country in the world, if the device complies with the laws of the importing country and has valid marketing authorization in one of several “listed” countries under the theory that these listed countries have sophisticated mechanisms for the review of medical devices for safety and effectiveness. The Company is also subject to regulations in foreign countries governing products, human clinical trials and marketing, and may need to obtain approval or evaluations by international public health agencies, such as the World Health Organization, in order to sell diagnostic products in certain countries. Approval processes vary from country to country, and the length of time required for approval or to obtain other clearances may in some cases be longer than that required for United States governmental approvals. On the other hand, the fact that our HIV diagnostic tests are of value in the AIDS epidemic may lead to some government process being expedited. The extent of potentially adverse governmental regulation affecting Chembio that might arise from future legislative or administrative action cannot be predicted. One or more of the Company’s rapid HIV tests are also approved or pending approval for marketing in several foreign jurisdictions, including but not limited to Brazil, Mexico, and India, as well as a number of other nations in the developing world. Environmental Laws To date, we have not encountered any costs relating to compliance with any environmental laws. Intellectual Property Intellectual Property Strategy Our intellectual property strategy is to: (1) build our owned intellectual property portfolio around our Dual Path Platform technology; (2) pursue licenses, trade secrets and know-how within the area of rapid point-of-care testing, and (3) develop and acquire proprietary positions to reagents and new hardware platforms for the development and manufacture of rapid diagnostic tests. Trade Secrets and Know-How We believe that we have developed a substantial body of trade secrets and know-how relating to the development of lateral flow and DPP® based diagnostic tests, including but not limited to the sourcing and optimization of materials for such tests, and how to maximize sensitivity, speed-to-result, specificity, stability and reproducibility. The Company possesses proprietary know-how to develop tests for multiple conditions using colored latex. Our buffer formulations enable extremely long shelf lives of our rapid HIV tests and we believe that this provides us with an important competitive advantage. 9 Lateral Flow Technology and Reagent Licenses As part of our agreements in 2006 with Inverness for the marketing of our HIV tests, we were granted non-exclusive licenses to their lateral flow technology for certain products manufactured and marketed by Chembio including but not limited to our HIV tests. Although we believe our DPP® is outside of the scope of lateral flow patents, we consult with patent counsel, and seek licenses and/or redesigns of products that we believe to be in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. Because of the costs and other negative consequences of time-consuming patent litigation, we often attempt to obtain a license on reasonable terms. Nevertheless there is no assurance that Inverness’ lateral flow patents will not be challenged or that other patents containing claims relevant to the Company’s lateral flow or DPP® products will be not be granted and that licenses to such patents, if any, will be available on reasonable terms, if any. Inverness has aggressively enforced its lateral flow intellectual property. Most recently in 2008 Inverness brought a patent infringement lawsuit against Orasure. The suit was settled in late 2009 with a $3 million payment by Orasure to Inverness and other considerations. The DPP® technology provides us with our own intellectual property and we believe it also enables tests to be developed with improved sensitivity as compared with comparable tests on lateral flow platforms. The Company has signed and anticipates signing new development projects based upon the DPP® technology that will provide new manufacturing and marketing opportunities. We have several other patents issued or pending related to other point-of-care technologies or applications thereof. The DPP® patent has been issued in certain other jurisdictions and is being prosecuted in many others. The peptides used in our rapid HIV tests are patented by Adaltis Inc. and are licensed to us under a 10-year non-exclusive license agreement dated August 30, 2002. In connection with their bankruptcy, during the third quarter of 2009 we bought out all of our remaining obligations under that agreement. We also have licensed the antigens used in other tests including our Chagas, Tuberculosis and Leishmaniasis tests. In prior years we concluded license agreements related to intellectual property rights owned by the United States associated with HIV- 1, and during the first quarter of 2008 we entered into a sub-license agreement for HIV-2 with Bio-Rad Laboratories N.A., the exclusive licensee of the Pasteur Institute’s HIV-2 intellectual property estate. Corporate History On May 5, 2004, we completed a merger with Chembio Diagnostic Systems Inc. through which Chembio Diagnostics Systems Inc. became our wholly-owned subsidiary, and through which the management and business of Chembio Diagnostic Systems Inc. became our management and business. As part of this transaction, we changed our name to Chembio Diagnostics, Inc. In 2003, we had sold our prior business, and as a result, we had no specific business immediately prior to the merger. Since the formation of Chembio Diagnostic Systems Inc. in 1985, it has been involved in developing, manufacturing, selling and distributing in-vitro diagnostic tests, including rapid tests beginning in 1995, for a number of conditions in humans and animals. On March 12, 2004, we implemented a 1-for-17 reverse split of our common stock. All references in this Form 10-K to shares of our common stock have been adjusted to reflect this reverse split. In February 2010, Crestview Capital Master, L.L.C. ("Crestview Master), a Delaware limited liability company that held 18,907,431 shares of Chembio's common stock, spun off all these shares, constituting approximately 30.5% of Chembio's outstanding shares, to its three equity holders. One of the three equity holders of Crestview Master immediately spun off, to its approximately 126 equity holders, all of the 12,990,569 shares of Chembio stock that it received in this distribution. As a result, as of February 24, 2010, Crestview Master no longer owned any shares. The former direct and indirect equity holders of Crestview Master owned all these shares, with none of these individual stockholders having beneficial ownership of more than 5.61% of the outstanding common stock of Chembio. Approximately 12,208,505 of the shares distributed are free of restrictions and may be sold or otherwise transferred immediately. An additional 2,560,822 of the distributed shares are expected to become eligible for resale on March 24. The other approximately 4,138,104 shares are expected to become eligible for resale on May 25, 2010. 10 Glossary AIDS Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome. AIDS is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus, HIV. ALGORITHM (parallel or serial) For rapid HIV testing this refers both to method or protocol (in developing countries to date) for using rapid tests from different manufacturers in combination to screen and confirm patients at the point-of-care, and may also refer to the specific tests that have been selected by an agency or ministry of health to be used in this way. A parallel algorithm uses two screening tests from different manufacturers and a tie-breaker test only if there is a discrepancy between the screening tests results. A serial algorithm only uses a second confirmatory test if there is a positive result from the screening test, meaning that the number of confirmatory tests used is equal to the positivity rate in the testing venue. A tie-breaker test resolves discrepancies between the screen and the confirmatory test. ANTIBODY A protein which is a natural part of the human immune system produced by specialized cells to neutralize antigens, including viruses and bacteria that invade the body. Each antibody producing cell manufactures a unique antibody that is directed against, binds to and eliminates one, and only one, specific type of antigen. ANTIGEN Any substance which, upon entering the body, stimulates the immune system leading to the formation of antibodies. Among the more common antigens are bacteria, pollens, toxins, and viruses. ARVs Anti-Retroviral Treatments for AIDS CD-4 The CD4+ T-lymphocyte is the primary target for HIV infection because of the affinity of the virus for the CD4 surface marker. Measures of CD4+ T-lymphocytes are used to guide clinical and therapeutic management of HIV-infected persons. CDC United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CLIA waiver Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act designation that allows simple tests to be performed in point-of-care settings such as doctors offices, walk-in clinics and emergency rooms. DIAGNOSTIC Pertaining to the determination of the nature or cause of a disease or condition. Also refers to reagents or procedures used in diagnosis to measure proteins in a clinical sample. EITF Emerging Issues Task Force FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDA United States Food and Drug Administration FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FAS Financial Accounting Standard HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus. HIV (also called HIV-1), a retrovirus, causes AIDS. A similar retrovirus, HIV-2, causes a variant disease, sometimes referred to as West African AIDS. HIV infection leads to the destruction of the immune system. IgG IgG or Immunoglobulin are proteins found in human blood. This protein is called an “antibody” and is an important part of the body’s defense against disease. When the body is attacked by harmful bacteria or viruses, antibodies help fight these invaders. MOH Ministry of Health MOU Memoranda of Understanding NGO Non-Governmental Organization OTC Over-the-Counter PEPFAR The President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PMA Pre-Marketing Approval –FDA approval classification for a medical device that is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device or is otherwise required by statute to have an approved application. Rapid HIV tests must have an approved PMA application before marketing of such a product can begin. PROTOCOL A procedure pursuant to which an immunodiagnostic test is performed on a particular specimen in order to obtain the desired reaction. REAGENT A chemical added to a sample under investigation in order to cause a chemical or biological reaction which will enable measurement or identification of a target substance. RETROVIRUS A type of virus which contains the enzyme Reverse Transcriptase and is capable of transforming infected cells to produce diseases in the host such as AIDS. SAB Staff Accounting Bulletin SENSITIVITY Refers to the ability of an assay to detect and measure small quantities of a substance of interest. The greater the sensitivity, the smaller the quantity of the substance of interest the assay can detect. Also refers to the likelihood of detecting the antigen when present. SPECIFICITY The ability of an assay to distinguish between similar materials. The greater the specificity, the better an assay is at identifying a substance in the presence of substances of similar makeup. SPUTUM Expectorated matter; saliva mixed with discharges from the respiratory passages TB Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs. But, TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. TB is spread through the air from one person to another. The bacteria are put into the air when a person with active TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs or sneezes. People nearby may breathe in these bacteria and become infected. UNAIDS Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS USAID United States Agency for International Development USDA U.S Department of Agriculture WHO World Health Organization 11 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information provided in this Annual Report. The risks described below are those we currently believe may materially affect us. An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk, and should be considered only by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. Risks related to our industry, business and strategy Because we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for some of our products, we may not generate revenues in the amounts we expect, or in the amounts necessary to continue our business. All of our proposed and existing products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and/or other domestic and international governmental, public health agencies, regulatory bodies or non-governmental organizations. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. The process of obtaining required approvals or clearances varies according to the nature of, and uses for, a specific product. These processes can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human or animal clinical trials, sampling activities, and other costly, time-consuming procedures. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that the authority will grant an approval or clearance for product. Each authority may impose its own requirements and can delay or refuse to grant approval or clearance, even though a product has been approved in another country. The time taken to obtain approval or clearance varies depending on the nature of the application and may result in the passage of a significant period of time from the date of submission of the application. Delays in the approval or clearance processes increase the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling the subject products, and we may determine to devote our resources to different products. Changes in government regulations could increase our costs and could require us to undergo additional trials or procedures, or could make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. Changes in government regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because we may have to incur additional expenses if we are required to change or implement new testing, manufacturing and control procedures. If we are required to devote resources to develop such new procedures, we may not have sufficient resources to devote to research and development, marketing, or other activities that are critical to our business. For example, the European Union and other jurisdictions have a requirement that diagnostic medical devices used to test human biological specimens must receive regulatory approval known as a CE mark, or be registered under the ISO 13.485 medical device directive. The letters “CE” are the abbreviation of the French phrase “Conforme Européene,” which means “European conformity.” ISO (“International Organization for Standardization”) is the world’s largest developer of standards with 148 member countries. As such, export to the European and other jurisdictions without the CE or ISO 13.485 mark is not possible. In 2007, we received ISO 13.485 certification, in 2008, we received a CE registration for our Chagas test, and during 2009 we expected to receive CE registration for our two FDA approved HIV tests. However, additional data and documentation has been requested and there are no assurances that we will be able to secure this certification although we are not aware of any material reason why such approval will not be granted. However, if for any reason a CE registration is not granted, our ability to export our products could be adversely impacted. We can manufacture and sell our products only if we comply with regulations of government agencies such as the FDA and the USDA. We have implemented a quality system that is intended to comply with applicable regulations. Although FDA approval is not required for the export of our products, there are export regulations promulgated by the FDA that specifically relate to the export of our products. Although we believe that we meet the regulatory standards required for the export of our products, these regulations could change in a manner that could adversely impact our ability to export our products. 12 Our products may not be able to compete with new diagnostic products or existing products developed by well-established competitors, which would negatively affect our business. The diagnostic industry is focused on the testing of biological specimens in a laboratory or at the point-of-care and is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Our principal competitors often have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several companies produce diagnostic tests that compete directly with our testing product line, including but not limited to, Orasure Technologies, Inverness Medical and Trinity Biotech. As new products enter the market, our products may become obsolete or a competitor’s products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than ours. Although we have no specific knowledge of any competitor’s product that will render our products obsolete, if we fail to maintain and enhance our competitive position or fail to introduce new products and product features, our customers may decide to use products developed by our competitors, which could result in a loss of revenues and cash flow. We have developed an oral fluid rapid HIV test as well as other applications utilizing our Dual Path Platform technology, which we believe could enhance our competitive position in HIV rapid testing and other fields. However we still have technical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing challenges to meet before we will know whether we can successfully commercialize products incorporating this technology. There can be no assurance that we will overcome these challenges. We have granted Inverness exclusive rights to market our SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 in the United States and non-exclusive rights in the rest of the world and exclusive rights to market our HIV 1/2 STAT PAK® in the U.S. only. Inverness has no rapid HIV tests that are approved for marketing in the U.S., we are not aware of any rapid HIV products that Inverness is even contemplating for the U.S., and Inverness is obligated to inform us of any such products as soon as it is able to do so. Inverness does have rapid HIV tests manufactured by several subsidiaries outside the U.S. that are being actively marketed outside the U.S., primarily in developing countries. Our HIV 1/2 STAT PAK cassette and dipstick products compete against these Inverness products, and we specifically acknowledge in our agreements with Inverness the existence of such other products. Moreover, except for a product in the HIV barrel field as defined in our agreement with Inverness, Inverness is permitted under our agreements to market certain types of permitted competing rapid HIV tests in the U.S. Under these conditions, we could choose to terminate the applicable agreement with Inverness or change the agreement to a non-exclusive agreement, and Inverness would expand the lateral flow license granted to the Company to allow the Company to market the product independently or through other marketing partners. While we believe that Inverness is committed to successfully marketing our products particularly in the U.S. and other developed countries where our products are or become approved for marketing, Inverness may choose to develop or acquire competing products for marketing in the U.S. as well as other markets where they are marketing our SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 product, and such an action could have at least a temporary material adverse effect on the marketing of these products until such time as alternative marketing arrangements could be implemented. While we also believe that the expansion of our license to the Inverness lateral flow patents substantially facilitates our ability to make alternative marketing arrangements, there can be no assurance that the modification of marketing arrangements and the possible corresponding delays or suspension of sales would not have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the point-of-care diagnostics industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. As new technologies become introduced into the point-of-care diagnostic testing market, we may be required to commit considerable additional efforts, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products. We may not have the available time and resources to accomplish this and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which would materially harm our operating results. Although we own our DPP® patent, we own no issued patents covering lateral flow technology, and the field of lateral flow technology is complex and characterized by a substantial amount of litigation, so the risk of potential patent challenges is ongoing for us in spite of our DPP® patent. Although we have been granted non-exclusive licenses to the lateral flow patents owned by Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. , there is no assurance that their lateral flow patents will not be challenged or that licenses from other parties may not be required, if available at all. In the event that it is determined that a license is required and it is not possible to negotiate a license agreement under a necessary patent, we may be able to modify our HIV rapid test products and other products such that a license would not be necessary. However, this alternative could delay or limit our ability to sell these products in the U.S. and other markets, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. 13 On March 13, 2007, our Dual Path Platform Immunoassay Device patent application was issued as United States patent no. 7,189,522. Additional protection for this intellectual property is pending worldwide. This platform has shown improved sensitivity as compared with conventional platforms in a number of studies. We believe that this new platform is outside of the scope of currently issued patents in the field of lateral flow technology, thereby offering the possibility of a greater freedom to operate. However there can be no assurance that our patents or our products incorporating the patent claims will not be challenged at some time in the future. New developments in health treatments or new non-diagnostic products may reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. The development and commercialization of products outside of the diagnostics industry could adversely affect sales of our products. For example, the development of a safe and effective vaccine to HIV or treatments for other diseases or conditions that our products are designed to detect, could reduce, or eventually eliminate, the demand for our HIV or other diagnostic products and result in a loss of revenues. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively introduce and market our products, which could materially harm our operating results. Introducing and achieving market acceptance for our rapid HIV tests and other new products will require substantial marketing efforts and will require us or our contract partners, sales agents, or distributors to make significant expenditures of time and money. In some instances we will be significantly or totally reliant on the marketing efforts and expenditures of our contract partners, sales agents, distributors. If they do not have or commit the expertise and resources to effectively market the products that we manufacture, our operating results will be materially harmed. The success of our business depends, in addition to the market success of our products, on our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity or through borrowing, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds in amounts necessary to continue our business, or at all. Our revenues and gross margins have increased significantly in recent periods, and our operating and net losses have decreased significantly in recent periods. Nevertheless, prior to 2009 we sustained significant operating losses since 2004. At December 31, 2009, we had a stockholders’ equity of $3.08 million and a working capital surplus of $1.49 million. The Company estimates that its resources are sufficient to fund its needs through the end of 2010 and beyond or that, in the alternative, it could raise additional capital although the terms under which that capital could be raised would likely be very dilutive to current shareholders. The Company’s liquidity and cash requirements will depend on several factors. These factors include (1) the level of revenues (the Company received $340,000 in 2009 for license fees for which we need to meet certain milestones to earn); (2) the extent to which, if any, that revenue level improves operating cash flows; (3) the Company’s investments in research and development, facilities, marketing, regulatory approvals, and other investments it may determine to make; and (4) the Company’s investment in capital equipment (including production equipment of $323,500 that the Company has contracted for) and the extent to which it improves cash flow through operating efficiencies. There are no assurances that the Company will remain profitable or generate positive cash flow in 2010 or, in the alternative, be successful in raising sufficient capital to fund its needs through 2010. Approval and launch of our DPP® products in Brazil during 2010 and increased sales to other developing world markets in 2010 is critical to our business plan and if we fail to meet this objective, we may not generate revenues in the amounts we expect, or in amounts necessary to fund our planned research, development and regulatory expenses in 2010. We intend to attempt to increase international sales of our products. A number of factors can slow or prevent international sales, or substantially increase the cost of international sales, including: · regulatory requirements and customs regulations; · cultural and political differences; · foreign exchange rates, currency fluctuations and tariffs; · dependence on and difficulties in managing international distributors or representatives; · the creditworthiness of foreign entities; · difficulties in foreign accounts receivable collection; and · competition · pricing · economic conditions and the absence of available funding sources. If we are unable to increase our revenues from international sales, our operating results will be materially harmed. 14 We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be sure that these laws or agreements adequately protect our rights. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, strategic relationships, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and name recognition are essential to our success. All our management personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. If personnel leave our employment, in some cases we would be required to protect our intellectual property rights pursuant to common law theories which may be less protective than provisions of employment, non-competition or non-disclosure agreements. We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, enter into license agreements for various materials and methods employed in our products, and enter into strategic relationships for distribution of the products. These strategies afford only limited protection. We currently have some foreign patents issued, and we are seeking additional patent protection in several other foreign jurisdictions for our DPP® technology. We have licenses to reagents (antigens and peptides) used in several of our products and products under development We also have a license to manufacture, use and sell products used to screen for antibodies to HIV-2. In addition, our SURE CHECK®, DPP® and STAT-PAK® trademarks have been registered in the U.S. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary assets, and respect the intellectual property rights of others, we participate in several markets where intellectual property rights protections are of little or no value. This can place our products and our company at a competitive disadvantage. During 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009 we terminated a number of employees who have had access to proprietary and confidential information. In connection with the termination of several of these employees whose positions were terminated, individuals executed severance agreements that include strong covenants by these former employees to keep our proprietary information confidential. Despite these and other efforts we make to protect our confidential information, such as entering confidentiality agreements in connection with new business opportunities, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to expend substantial resources in asserting or protecting our intellectual property rights, or in defending suits related to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights could substantially delay product development or commercialization activities because some of our available funds would be diverted away from our business activities. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights might include state, federal or foreign court litigation as well as patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. To facilitate development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining and maintaining these licenses, which may not be available, may require the payment of up-front fees and royalties. In addition, if we are unable to obtain these types of licenses, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed or precluded. Our continued growth depends on retaining our current key employees and attracting additional qualified personnel, and we may not be able to do so. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the skills and experience of our executive officers, management and sales, marketing, operations and scientific staff. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical products businesses, geographic considerations, our ability to offer competitive compensation , relocation packages, benefits, and/or other reasons. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to effectively manufacture, sell and market our products to meet the demands of our strategic partners in a timely fashion, or to support internal research and development programs. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced scientists and other personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. We have entered into employment contracts with our President, Lawrence Siebert, and our Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Javan Esfandiari. Due to the specific knowledge and experience of these executives regarding the industry, technology and market, the loss of the services of either one of them would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. The contract with Mr. Siebert, provides that Mr. Siebert will serve as the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company for an additional three-year term through May 11, 2012. The contract with Mr. Esfandiari has a term of three years ending March 2013. We have obtained a key man insurance policy for Mr. Esfandiari. 15 We believe our success depends on our ability to participate in large government programs in the U.S. and worldwide and we may not be able to do so. We believe it to be in our best interests to meaningfully participate in the PEPFAR Program, UN Global Fund initiatives and other programs funded by large donors. We have initiated several strategies to participate in these programs, such as introduction of our DPP® HIV test for use with oral fluid samples. Participation in these programs requires alignment and engagement with the many other participants in these programs including the World Health Organization, U.S. Center for Disease Control, U.S. Agency for International Development, foreign governments and their agencies, non-governmental organizations, and HIV service organizations. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to participate in these programs, our operating results could be materially harmed. Although we were profitable in 2009, we have a history of incurring net losses and we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability. Since the inception of Chembio Diagnostic Systems, Inc. in 1985 and through the period ended December 31, 2008, we have incurred net losses. As of December 31, 2009, we have an accumulated deficit of $37 million. We incurred net losses of $1.9 million and $2.6 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, while showing a net profit of $309,000 in 2009. We expect to make substantial expenditures for sales and marketing, and continue to make expenditures for regulatory submissions, product development and other purpose that may make it more difficult to maintain profitability for any given period or periods. Our ability to continue profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products, reduce production and other costs and successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. If we are unable to increase our revenues at a rate that is sufficient to achieve profitability, or adequately control and reduce our operating costs, our operating results would be materially harmed. To the extent that we are unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance or that we incur product liability exposure that is not covered by our product liability insurance, our operating results could be materially harmed. We may be held liable if any of our products, or any product which is made with the use or incorporation of any of the technologies belonging to us, causes injury of any type or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or usage. We have obtained product liability insurance, we have never received a product liability claim, and have generally not seen product liability claims for screening tests that are accompanied by appropriate disclaimers. Nevertheless, in the event there is a claim, this insurance may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, as we attempt to bring new products to market, we may need to increase our product liability coverage which would be a significant additional expense that we may not be able to afford. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost to protect us, we may be forced to abandon efforts to commercialize our products or those of our strategic partners, which would reduce our revenues. Risks related to our Common Stock In the past, our Common Stock has been classified as penny stock, and it continues to be extremely illiquid, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing market prices. In the past, our Common Stock has been classified as penny stock. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 and trade on the over-the-counter market. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the price of the securities that are classified as penny stocks. The “penny stock” rules adopted by the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), subject the sale of the shares of penny stock issuers to regulations that impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, causing many broker-dealers to not trade penny stocks or to only offer the stocks to sophisticated investors that meet specified net worth or net income criteria identified by the Commission. These regulations contribute to the lack of liquidity of penny stocks. At the present time, transactions in our Common Stock are not subject to the “penny stock” rules because our average revenue for 2007, 2008 and 2009 exceeded $6 million per year. However, there can be no assurance that transactions in our Common Stock will not be subject to the “penny stock” rules in the future. The average daily trading volume of our Common Stock on the over-the-counter market was less than 101,000 shares per day over the three months ended March 1, 2010. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. 16 Our management and larger stockholders exercise significant control over our Company and may approve or take actions that may be adverse to your interests. As of March 1, 2010, our named executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders beneficially owned approximately 13.9% of our voting power. For the foreseeable future, to the extent that our current stockholders vote similarly, they will be able to exercise control over many matters requiring approval by the board of directors or our stockholders. As a result, they will be able to: · control the composition of our board of directors; · control our management and policies; · determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to stockholders; and · act in each of their own interests, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of each other or the interests of the other stockholders. ITEM 