ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. Our results may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in the telecommunications industry and the economy in general. We expect industry and economic conditions to affect our business in many ways, including the following: • our current and prospective customers may make limited capital expenditures; • consolidation of our customers may cause delays, disruptions or reductions in their capital spending plans as well as increase their relative purchasing power in any negotiation; • we will continue to have limited ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales; • we will experience a continuing high level of competition as a result of limited demand which may cause downward pressure on the pricing of our products resulting in reduced gross margins and constrained revenue growth; • many of our competitors have broader product lines than we do, which allows them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively; • new competitive entrants may be located in geographies with lower cost structures than ours allowing them a greater degree of price flexibility; • we will need to continue to balance our initiatives to manage our operating costs against the need to keep pace with technological advances; • the convergence of service provider network architectures on more common and undifferentiated solutions versus technical innovation may create new competitive challenges; • intense competition may enable customers to demand more favorable terms and conditions of sales including extended payment terms; and • any bankruptcies or weakening financial condition of any of our customers may require us to write off amounts due from prior sales. These factors could have an adverse impact on our revenue, operating results and financial condition. In the near term, our business will continue to depend on our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products for a significant portion of our revenue, and our business, revenue and financial condition may suffer if demand for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products significantly declines. We currently derive the vast majority of our revenue from sales of our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products, which include our optical switching and multiservice access products. Revenues for these products, and in particular for our optical switching products, have declined in recent years, and as a result our investments in this part of our business are focused primarily on sustaining engineering efforts, including targeted, incremental feature development tied to tangible revenue opportunities. Despite challenging market conditions and limited 11 Table of Contents opportunities for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products, we expect these products will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the near term, and continued customer acceptance of these products is therefore critical to our success. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, these products could cause a significant decrease in our revenues and/or profitability. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • our decision not to focus our investments on the development of next-generation transmission platforms for service providers; • the adoption of, or shifts to, new network architectures or industry standards by customers; • the development of more advanced technologies or additional features by competitors; • a decision by the Company not to develop certain features or enhancements requested by current or prospective customers, or to end-of-life or discontinue certain products; and • difficulties associated with obtaining component parts for the products. Any one of these factors alone or in combination could result in a significant reduction in orders from our customers or the loss of existing or prospective customers, which could materially reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and financial condition may suffer if we are unable to develop and market our IQstream solution as we expect. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we announced the introduction of our IQstream Mobile Broadband Optimization solution. Our decision to introduce IQstream was based on our belief that there is an emerging market opportunity. However, investments in new technology are inherently speculative and the market for IQstream is as yet unproven. New technology initiatives like IQstream require significant developmental resources, capital expenditures and management attention. In order for IQstream to compete effectively, we must deliver a technologically advanced product that is superior in meeting the needs of customers, promote the market for IQstream, and effectively market and sell our solution to mobile operators. There can be no assurance that IQstream will receive sufficient customer acceptance and if the market for IQstream does not develop and grow substantially, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, revenues, margins and profitability. Further, even if IQstream initially obtains market acceptance, we may not be able to effectively enhance or support the product or successfully respond on a timely basis to products introduced into the marketplace by competitors. The failure of IQstream to be accepted by, or compete effectively in, the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. If we fail to bring IQstream to market on a timely basis, or IQstream fails to achieve market acceptance, our business may suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop, market or sell our IQstream solution in a timely manner. Historically, service providers have been relatively slow to deploy new, complex products in their networks, and the sales cycle for these products tends to be long and unpredictable due to the lengthy customer evaluation and approval process required before products can be deployed in operators’ networks. Accordingly, we have limited or no control over the pace at which mobile operators will adopt our IQstream solution in their networks, if at all. In addition, our ability to realize revenue from IQstream depends on, among other things, our ability to meet current and future product development goals and successfully complete lab and field tests with prospective customers. We may encounter technical or other problems in connection with the development of IQstream that could result in delayed deployment of, or inability to introduce, IQstream into operators’ networks. Development and deployment delays could result from numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • unanticipated engineering difficulties; 12 Table of Contents • the timing and level of research and development expenses; • changing market or competitive product requirements; • stringent and/or unique technical requirements of customers; • failure of our suppliers to meet our technical and commercial requirements; • integration and interoperability challenges; and • claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property. Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to bring IQstream to market in a timely manner, if customers delay purchases, or if acceptance of IQstream is slower than expected or to a smaller degree than expected, if at all. Any delay in the development, testing, marketing, customer acceptance or deployment of IQstream could result in such products missing an emerging market opportunity. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our business. The communications industry has experienced significant consolidation and we expect this trend to continue. Over the past several years, a number of larger communications service providers and network equipment suppliers have completed merger transactions which have had a significant impact on the telecommunications industry. Such consolidation among our customers may cause delays or reductions in their capital expenditure plans and may cause increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Consolidation may also result in service providers substantially reducing the number of suppliers in their networks or choosing to standardize on a certain vendor’s networking platform. In addition, consolidation among network equipment suppliers may result in stronger competitors and a change in our relative market position. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. We may experience risks in our investments due to changes in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. As of July 31, 2010, we had $104.4 million in cash and cash equivalents plus $532.5 million in short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities which may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are subject to interest rate risk and may decline in value if market interest rates increase. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We must continue to effectively manage our investments in product development to succeed in existing and new markets for our products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent introductions of new products and evolving customer requirements. Customers continuously demand new features for existing products as well as new technologies and solutions. Due to challenging market conditions and limited opportunities for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products, we will not be focusing our investments on the development of next-generation transmission platforms for service providers, and our research and development efforts in this area of our business will remain focused on supporting customers with sustaining engineering efforts, including targeted, incremental feature development tied to tangible revenue opportunities. As a result, we may fail to develop, or choose not to develop, new features or products requested by current and prospective customers. In addition, reduced demand for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products and/or 13 Table of Contents competitive pressures may cause us to alter our investment in, or discontinue or divest our interests in certain product lines. Such actions could have an adverse impact on our future revenue and results of operations. Managing our efforts to keep pace with new technologies and reduce operating expense is difficult and there is no assurance that we will be successful. We also have made significant investments in our IQstream solution, and we expect our decision to focus our future development efforts on the mobile broadband market will continue to require significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which will be incurred before any significant revenue related to the products is realized, if at all. Until such time, or if we fail to generate sufficient revenue from our other products and services, we may incur net losses. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or that we will generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain operating profitability. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have previously taken steps, including workforce reductions, facilities consolidations, office closures and internal reorganizations to reduce the size and cost structure of our operations to better align our resources with market opportunities. We cannot assure that we will realize all of the anticipated benefits of any past restructuring efforts or that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses or products. Any decision to further limit investment in, or to exit, or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional charges. We also cannot predict whether any future restructuring or streamlining of operations will adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, the loss of which, in turn, could adversely affect our operating results. Further, in the event that market conditions improve or our IQstream solution achieves market acceptance faster than we expect, we may not have the appropriate level of resources and personnel to appropriately react to the increase in customer demand. If we cannot effectively manage our cost structure while continuing to invest in growth opportunities, we may fail to meet strategic and market expectations, which could have an adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Intense competition could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Competition for limited bandwidth management opportunities is intense and continues to be dominated by large, incumbent equipment suppliers. Competition is generally based upon a combination of price, established customer relationships, broad product portfolios, large service and support teams, technology, functionality and scalability. Large companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena, Huawei, Ericsson and Tellabs have historically dominated the bandwidth management market and may be in a better position to take advantage of the trend among larger service providers to reduce the number of communications suppliers in their networks. Many of our competitors in this market have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do and are able to devote greater resources to research and development of new products. Most of these competitors also have long-standing existing relationships with our current and prospective customers and often deploy aggressive pricing tactics in order to compete with our products. Our competitors may develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products less desirable or even obsolete. Moreover, many of these competitors have more diverse product lines which allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively. Competition in the mobile broadband optimization market varies depending on which segment of the mobile network the products serve. Competition in the backhaul segment of the network, where Sycamore’s IQstream Mobile Broadband Optimization solution is targeted, largely consists of alternative technologies focused on increasing capacity rather than solutions designed to optimize and reduce content transiting the backhaul. Widespread and increasing adoption of open industry standards and the presence of large, incumbent equipment suppliers in service provider networks, however, may make it easier for providers of alternative or complementary technologies to introduce new products or add features to existing products that compete directly with IQstream. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in this market or to capture meaningful market share, and our business could be harmed if competitors introduce products and services that provide greater performance, offer additional features and functionality, or are more reliable or less expensive than our Mobile Broadband Optimization solutions. 14 Table of Contents As a result of intense competition in the markets we serve, we expect to encounter competitive tactics such as the following: • price discounting; • early announcements of competing products and other marketing efforts; • customer financing assistance; • complete solution sales from one single source; • bundling multi-vendor solution integration services with turnkey network operating service offerings; • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property infringement allegations. These tactics may be effective in a highly concentrated customer base like ours. Our customers are under increasing pressure to deliver their services at the lowest possible cost. As a result, product pricing is an important factor in customer decisions. In certain cases, our larger competitors have more diverse product lines that allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively and absorb the significant cost structure associated with research and development across their entire business. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the average selling price of our products by a reduction in the cost of our products, our gross margins will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience revenue reductions, order cancellations, lost customer opportunities and reduced gross margins, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers, and our success depends on increasing both direct sales and indirect sales through distribution channels to a limited number of service providers. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers and that trend is likely to continue. The loss of any one of these customers or any substantial reduction in orders by any one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. None of our customers are contractually committed to purchase any minimum quantities of products from us and orders are generally cancelable prior to shipment. We expect that our revenue will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers. While expanding our customer base is a key objective, at the present time, the number of prospective customer opportunities for our Intelligent Bandwidth Management products is limited. In addition, we believe that the communications industry will continue in a consolidation phase which may further reduce the number of prospective customers, slow purchases and delay network deployment decisions. Our direct sales efforts primarily target service providers, many of which have already made significant investments in their networking infrastructures. In addition, we utilize channel relationships with distribution partners including resellers, distributors and systems integrators for the sale of our products to service providers, including government entities and utility operators. We have entered into agreements with several distribution partners, some of which also sell products that compete with our products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain or attract distribution partners on a timely basis or at all, or that the distribution partners will devote adequate resources to selling our products. Since we have only limited experience in developing and managing such channels, the extent to which we will be successful is uncertain. If we are unable to develop and manage new channels of distribution to sell our products to service providers, or if our distribution partners are unable to convince service providers to deploy our networking solutions, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Through our resellers, we generate a portion of our revenue from government entities and the loss or decline of existing or future government entity funding could adversely affect our revenue and cash flows. These government entities may be subject to budget cuts, budgetary constraints, a discontinuation of funding or changes in the political or regulatory environment that may cause the entities to terminate projects, divert funds or delay implementation or expansion. A significant reduction or delay in orders by one or more of these entities could materially reduce our revenue and cash flows. As with most government contracts, these entities may terminate the contracts at any time without cause. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government entities. If the results of these audits or investigations are negative, our reputation could be damaged, contracts could be terminated or significant penalties could be assessed. If a contract is terminated for any reason, our ability to fully recover certain amounts may be impaired resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain larger customers may have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may negatively impact our results of operations. Large communications providers, key resellers and government entities, who make up a large part of our current business, have substantial purchasing power and potential leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. As we seek to do business with such larger customers, we may be required to agree to unfavorable contractual arrangements, which may include (i) higher discounts, (ii) development of additional features, (iii) penalty clauses or (iv) other onerous terms and conditions which may affect the timing of revenue recognition, our financial condition and/or our reported results of operations. We may experience difficulties identifying, analyzing and consummating strategic alternatives, and any such alternatives may not lead to the achievement of desired results. As part of our business strategy, we regularly examine strategic alternatives that may enhance stockholder value. These alternatives may include the acquisition of, strategic investments in, or joint ventures in, adjacent or complementary businesses, products, services, or technologies or potential asset sales or divestitures of all or a portion of our interests in some product lines. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify suitable third parties for these transactions. If we are unable to identify suitable third parties for strategic transactions, we may not be able to capitalize on market opportunities with existing and new customers, which may inhibit our ability to gain market share. If we divest or otherwise exit certain portions of our business, we may not realize the benefits of any such activity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may be required to record additional expenses for items such as workforce reduction costs, closure of excess facilities and excess inventory and/or equipment write-offs. Any strategic decision will involve risks and uncertainties and present challenges in implementation and integration. As a result, any such business arrangement may not lead to increased stockholder value and, whether or not we pursue any strategic alternatives, the value of our shares may decrease. Any acquisition, merger or strategic investment we make could disrupt our business and materially harm our financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we consider acquisitions and strategic investments including those in complementary companies, products or technologies, or in adjacent market segments and otherwise. We may consider such acquisitions or strategic investments to add complementary products and services, expand the markets we serve and diversify our customer base. Any decision regarding an acquisition or strategic investment would be subject to inherent risk, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify appropriate opportunities, successfully negotiate economically beneficial terms, successfully integrate any acquired business, retain key employees, successfully market and sell products of the acquired business or achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of any acquisition or strategic investment which may be selected. Further, in the event of an acquisition, merger or strategic investment, we may: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ holdings; 16 Table of Contents • consume cash, which would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes and the interest income we generate from our cash; • incur debt or assume liabilities; • increase our ongoing operating expenses and level of capital expenditures; • record goodwill and intangible assets subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs; or • become subject to litigation. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, merger or strategic investment will also involve certain other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products; • difficulty in marketing and selling products of an acquired business; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities; • disruption to in-process product development initiatives; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • problems entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • problems with integrating employees, including issues related to unionized employees; and • additional regulatory compliance issues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel resulting from a future business combination and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. Current economic and market conditions make forecasting difficult. Current economic and market conditions together with the inherent inconsistent and unpredictable ordering patterns of our customers have limited our ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales, making it difficult to provide estimates of revenue and operating results. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results. If our revenue and operating results are below the expectations of our investors and market analysts, it could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect our common stock price. In general, our revenue and operating results in any reporting period may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • fluctuation in demand for our products; • the timing, volume and product mix of sales of our products; • changes in customer requirements, including delays or order cancellations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; 17 Table of Contents • changes in the price or availability of components for our products; • the timing of revenue recognition and deferred revenue; • readiness of customer sites for installation; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria and related revenue recognition issues; • manufacturing and shipment delays; and • general economic conditions as well as those specific to the telecommunications and related industries. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. You should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. The factors discussed above are extremely difficult to predict and impact our revenue and operating results. In addition, our ability to forecast our future business has been significantly impaired by economic and market conditions. As a result, we believe that our revenue and operating results are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Customer purchase decisions have historically taken a long period of time. We believe that some customers who make a decision to deploy our products will expand their networks slowly and deliberately. In addition, we could receive purchase orders on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of the nature of our business, we cannot predict these sales and deployment cycles. The long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers may tend to issue large purchase orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our future operating results may be below our expectations or those of public market analysts and investors, and our revenue may decline or recover at a slower rate than anticipated by us or analysts and investors. In either event, the price of our common stock could decrease. We utilize contract manufacturers to supply our products, and any disruption in these relationships may cause us to fail to meet our customers’ demands and may damage our customer relationships. We have limited internal manufacturing capabilities. We outsource the manufacturing of our proprietary products to contract manufacturers who manufacture our products in accordance with our specifications and fill orders on a timely basis. We may not be able to manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers effectively, and our contract manufacturers may not meet our future requirements for quality or timely delivery. Our contract manufacturers also build products for other companies, and we cannot be assured that they will have sufficient quantities of inventory available to fill our customer orders or that they will allocate their internal resources or capacity to fill our orders on a timely basis. Unforecasted customer demand may increase the cost to build our products due to fees charged to expedite production and other related charges. The contract manufacturing industry is a highly competitive, capital-intensive business with relatively low profit margins, and in which acquisition or merger activity is relatively common. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer or new facility and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming, and could result in a significant interruption in the supply and/or quality of our products. If we are required or choose to change contract manufacturers for any reason, our revenue, gross margins and customer relationships could be adversely affected. We and our product suppliers typically rely on single or limited sources for supply of certain components and our business may be seriously harmed if the availability of supply of any of these components is disrupted. We and our product suppliers purchase several key components from single or limited sources. These key components include commercial digital signal processors, central processing units, field programmable gate 18 Table of Contents arrays, switch fabric and optical transceivers. We generally purchase our key components on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts for these components. In the event of a disruption in supply of key components including, but not limited to, production disruptions, low yield or discontinuance of manufacture, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. Any such failure could impair our ability to deliver products to customers or require us to purchase additional excess inventory, which would adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In addition, our reliance on key component suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties or quality variations. The loss of a source of supply for key components or a disruption in the supply chain could require us to incur additional costs to redesign products that use those components or cause us to end-of-life or discontinue those products. Also, electronic products are experiencing shorter product life cycles which may require us to build inventories to forecasted sales demand rather than to order levels. During the past several years, component suppliers have planned their production capacity to better match demand. If the demand for certain components increases beyond the component supplier’s planned production capacity, there may be component shortages which may increase procurement costs. In addition, consolidation in the component industry could result in reduced competition for supply of key components and higher component prices. If any of these events occurred, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to anticipate inventory requirements may result in inventory charges or delays in product shipments. During the normal course of business, we may provide purchase orders to our contract manufacturers for up to six months prior to scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our product requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess cancellation penalties or we may have excess inventory which could negatively impact our gross margins. If we underestimate our product requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory that could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipment to our customers. We also could incur additional charges to expedite the manufacture of our products to meet our customer deployment schedules. If we over or underestimate our product requirements, our revenue and gross profit may be impacted. Product performance problems could adversely affect our revenue, operating results and financial condition. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance or reliability requirements, our relationships with current and prospective customers may be adversely affected. The design, development and deployment of our products often involve problems with software, components, manufacturing processes and interoperability with other network elements. If we are unable to identify and fix errors or other problems, or if our customers experience interruptions or delays that cannot be promptly resolved, we could experience: • loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition or accounts receivable collection; • loss of customers and market share; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and other resources; • increased service, warranty and insurance costs; and • legal actions by our customers. These factors may adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our products are often critical to the performance of our customers’ networks. Generally, we seek to limit liability in our customer agreements. If we are not successful in limiting our liability, or these contractual limitations are not enforceable or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a successful claim could harm our business. 19 Table of Contents The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. International sales have historically represented a significant amount of our total sales including 38% of total revenue for fiscal 2010 and 35% of total revenue for fiscal 2009. We have a substantial international customer base and we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk to the extent that our revenue is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Doing business internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect sales channels and to support customers in international markets. In addition, we have a research and development facility in Shanghai, China, which conducts a significant amount of our research and development activities. We may not be able to maintain or expand international market demand for our products. In addition, our business derived from international operations is subject to inherent risks, including: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and conducting foreign operations in compliance with local laws and customs; • reliance on distribution partners for the resale of our products in certain markets and for certain types of product offerings, such as the integration of our products into third-party product offerings; • the need to work with third parties in certain countries to perform installation and obtain customer acceptance may impact the timing of revenue recognition; • the need to maintain staffing, or to work with third parties, to provide service and support in international locations; • the impact of slowdowns or recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including trade and environmental protection measures and import and licensing requirements; • obtaining export licensing authority on a timely basis and maintaining ongoing compliance with import, export and re-export regulations; • certification requirements; • currency fluctuations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability, particularly in emerging markets. These factors may adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition. Environmental regulations could harm our operating results. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products such as, but not limited to, the European Union Directive entitled, “The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment”. Environmental laws and regulations can vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and often make producers financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and ultimate disposal of their products. We will need to ensure that we comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulations. If we are not in compliance with such legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may be unable to ship products to certain markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and we could also be subject to governmental fines, penalties and liability to our customers if we were found to be in violation of these laws. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant capital expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. Additionally, we could be forced to write off inventory that is found not to be compliant with evolving environmental regulations. If we are unable to retain and recruit key personnel, our business may be harmed. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel, who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business strategy, many of whom would be difficult to replace. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies or similar perquisites covering any of our employees. Virtually all of our key employees have been granted share-based awards that are intended to represent an integral component of their compensation package. These share-based awards may not provide the intended incentive to our employees if our stock price fails to appreciate, experiences significant volatility or if a failure to make our SEC filings on a timely basis prevents our employees from receiving or exercising stock options. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of our products, and negatively impact our ability to sell and support our products. Adverse resolution of disputes, litigation and claims may harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We are a defendant in an Initial Public Offering securities lawsuit and a party to other litigation and claims in the normal course of our business, and we may be named in additional litigation. The highly technical nature of our products makes them susceptible to allegations of patent infringement. Litigation is by its nature uncertain and unpredictable and there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of such claims will not exceed the amounts accrued for such claims, if any. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of a legal matter could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits and other disputes in which we are involved, see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. Our ability to compete and pursue strategic alternatives could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or are determined to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners and control access to and distribution of our products, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, United States patent laws may not effectively protect our proprietary rights at the outset due to the lengthy process required to obtain a patent. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete and pursue strategic alternatives effectively could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In the course of our business, we may receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies in our products. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would require us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, manufacturers or suppliers against the alleged infringement. Regardless of their merit, these claims could result in costly litigation and subject us to the risk of significant liability for damages. Such claims would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve, would divert management time and attention and would put us at risk to: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign those products that use such technology; or • accept a return of products that use such technologies. If we are forced to take one or more of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. In addition, we license public domain software and proprietary technology from third parties for use in our existing products, as well as new product development and enhancements. We cannot be assured that such licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if at all. The inability to maintain or obtain any such license required for our current or future products and enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products. Adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our results. We are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provisions. While we believe that we have adequately provided for our tax liabilities, it is possible that the amount paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amount provided. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts owed by us are recorded in the period they become known. The ultimate outcome of these tax contingencies could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryovers could be subject to significant limitations pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company has significant federal and state net operating loss and tax credit carryovers. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses may be subject to limitations pursuant to the ownership change rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended. The occurrence of ownership changes, as defined in Section 382, is not controlled by the Company, and could significantly limit the amount of net operating loss carryovers and research and development credits that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income. Matters related to the investigations into our historical stock option granting practices and the resulting restatements of our previously issued financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. Although on July 9, 2008, we entered into an agreement with the SEC settling the civil charges contained in the SEC’s complaint, without admitting or denying such charges, our historical stock option granting practices 22 Table of Contents and the initial restatement and further restatement of our previously issued financial statements may expose us to additional risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see Part I, Item 3—“Legal Proceedings” as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth herein. No assurance can be given regarding the potential costs or outcomes from any new litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters may be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. The SEC enforcement action may damage our reputation and negatively impact our ability to renew or enter into new contracts with commercial and government customers. Further, as a result of our settlement with the SEC, we will be unable to utilize a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 until July 10, 2011, which is three years from the settlement of the SEC enforcement action. This could adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to pursue specific strategic alternatives, such as strategic acquisitions. Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The occurrence of any one or more of the factors noted above could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. In addition, the following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate: • loss of a major customer; • significant changes or slowdowns in the funding and spending patterns of our current and prospective customers; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements; • failure by us to meet product milestones; • acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • regulatory changes in telecommunications; • variations between our actual results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the future; • changes in market valuations of networking and telecommunications companies; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes and; • announcements or implementation of any capital restructuring, such as stock buybacks or significant cash distributions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. 23 Table of Contents Significant insider ownership, provisions of our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law may limit stockholders’ ability to influence key transactions, including changes of control. As of July 31, 2010, our officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to certain stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 