ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our intended operating results is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the ones identified below, and additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. The impact of the current economic climate and tight financing markets may impact consumer demand for our product, our customer’s ability to finance new networks, and our ability to secure financing to support the manufacture and sale of our products. All of our sales are derived from, and we are dependent on, the wireless telecommunications industry. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales are derived from customers in developing countries. The impact of the current economic climate and the tight financial markets on demand for our products is unclear. If consumer demand declines, we will experience reduced sales. We depend on telecommunications operators to roll out new networks and upgrade existing network infrastructure to drive demand for our products. If those operators determine that consumer demand will not support, or that they are unable to finance, new network rollouts or product launches, sales of our products may decline. Because of our limited working capital, we rely on a combination of credit terms from our contract manufacturers and credit security from our customers and distributors to minimize our working capital requirements. We depend upon open credit terms from our contract manufacturers to produce goods for sale to our customers. WNC, our principal contract manufacturer, has notified us that their credit lines are being reviewed. Any change in our credit terms with them could impact our ability to produce goods to meet customer orders. The current economic and financial condition may also impact the ability of our customers to provide credit security for their orders. We rely on that credit security, usually in the form of credit insurance or a letter of credit, to immediately finance the account receivable from the customer. We then use the proceeds from the account receivable financing to pay our contract manufacturers within the terms of their open credit policy. In 11 Table of Contents 2008 we entered into credit agreements with affiliates of Wells Fargo, and a distribution agreement with Brightstar, to support the financing of our customer accounts receivable. Our credit arrangements with Wells Fargo and Brightstar have expired. In the case of Wells Fargo, we are attempting to negotiate new arrangements. In the case of Brightstar we are continuing to receive orders from them secured by letters of credit, but that arrangement can be terminated at any time. If, as a result of the current financial crisis, our customers are unable to secure credit insurance or a letter of credit to secure their account with us, we may be unable to fill purchase orders submitted to us and our sales and results of operations may decline. We depend on our distributor Brightstar Corporation to provide letters of credit to support our sales of products to customers in Venezuela, which accounted for 41% of our revenues in 2008. For 2007 and 2008, sales to telecommunications service providers in Venezuela accounted for 43% and 41% of our revenues, respectively. In 2007 the government in Venezuela nationalized the telephone company. While we continued to receive orders for products, we experienced substantial delays in payments from Venezuelan customers in 2007. Those delays resulted in us falling delinquent in payments to WNC, our principal manufacturer, and shipment delays that substantially impaired our results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2007. In early 2008, we entered into a distributor agreement with Brightstar Corporation pursuant to which we direct sales from Venezuelan customers through Brightstar. Brightstar takes the purchase order from the customers, and issues a purchase order to us at a discount from the purchase price for the end customer. Under the terms of the distributor agreement, Brightstar secures its payment obligation to us with a letter of credit which we can finance immediately, eliminating delays and collection risk. That agreement expired in January 2009; however we have continued to work with Brightstar and receive and process purchase orders from Brightstar. Brightstar Corporation may, in its discretion, reject any particular purchase order from our customer, change the pricing discount at which it is willing to purchase our products, or terminate the distributor relationship at any time. If Brightstar Corporation refuses to accept a purchase order from our customer, we can accept the order directly or arrange for another distributor to accept the purchase order. If we cannot identify another distributor, or find another option to finance the account receivable, we do not presently have the working capital necessary to fulfill our current level of business to Venezuela on open terms. Consequently, if Brightstar Corporation were to modify the manner in which it distributes our products, we may have to substantially reduce the amount of business we do with customers in Venezuela. If we cannot sustain profitable operations, we may need to raise additional capital to continue our operations, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and which may dilute your investment. Although we had net income of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred significant losses in prior years including a net loss of $9.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and a net loss of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $36.3 million and had working capital of $241,000. Sustaining profitability will require us to maintain our revenues, reduce our manufacturing costs and manage our operating and administrative expenses. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining profitability and improving our working capital position. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to pay our expenses and our existing sources of cash and cash flows are otherwise insufficient to fund our activities, we will need to raise additional funds to continue our operations. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining profitability and reducing our accumulated deficit, and we cannot obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or cease our operations, which could result in the loss of all of your investment in our stock. 12 Table of Contents Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may be required to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations. As of the date of our most recent audit, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.7 million and working capital of $241,000. We generated annual net income for the first time in our history in 2008. Nonetheless, we face several risks in our efforts to sustain that profitability. The worldwide economic downturn may impact our ability to generate sufficient revenues to meet our cash flow needs and the downturn could cause liquidity to be strained because of reduced availability of bank financings and other methods of raising capital. As a result, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds from our operating or financing activities to support our continued operations. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may need to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations, which may reduce or negate the value of your investment. We depend in substantial part on the adoption and acceptance of fixed wireless telecommunications in developing countries and regions to create demand for our products. Our target customers are large telecommunications service providers who are establishing and operating wireless networks in developing countries and regions where demand for basic telephone service has grown substantially in recent years and where the cost of building a wireless telecommunications infrastructure is preferable to a traditional wire line infrastructure. We sell our products to these service providers, who in turn resell our products to their customers, the end users, to use over the service providers’ telecommunications networks. The economies in many of these countries are fragile and are subject to significant change based on world events. This results in unpredictable demand for our products. If demand for wireless infrastructure in these countries does not continue to increase, if the service providers elect to develop traditional landline infrastructure instead of fixed wireless infrastructure or if the service providers are unable to finance network expansion and fixed wireless products, demand for our products will not develop. Even if these service providers elect to develop fixed wireless infrastructure, demand for our products will not develop if the service providers are unable to sell their services and our products to the end users at affordable prices. In addition, in some instances, service providers purchase our products from us and resell the products to their end users at reduced prices in order to establish a service relationship with those users. If such telecommunications service providers do not continue to subsidize the purchase of our products and if the end users cannot afford to purchase our products on their own, our revenues may decline. Our international sales and operations subject us to various risks associated with, among other things, foreign laws, policies, economies and exchange rate fluctuations. All of our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These risks include: • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing countries, where substantially all of our customers are located; • difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements applicable to our operations and products; • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including work stoppages or strikes and cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; 13 Table of Contents • trade restrictions or higher tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian bird flu. These international risks make our ability to meet the demand for wireless products unpredictable. In addition, because all of our sales are denominated in United States dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect the market price for our products in countries in which they are sold. If the currency of a particular country weakens against the United States dollar, the cost of our products in that country may increase to the service provider and end user, which may result in the service provider or end user choosing to purchase the products of one of our competitors instead of our products. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We believe that our operating results may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed below as well as others listed in this “Risk Factors” section: • our current reliance on large-volume orders from only a few customers; • the propensity of our customers to order on a purchase order basis; • variability between customer and product mix; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in the terms of our arrangements with customers or suppliers; • ability of our customers to accurately forecast demand for our products by their end users; • general economic conditions in developing countries which are in our target markets; • the timing of final product approvals from any major customer; • delays or failures to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; • the ability of our customers to obtain letters of credit that are satisfactory to us and our ability to confirm them in a timely manner; • our inability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products by us or market acceptance of these products; • our ability to finance our working capital needs; • change in the financial position of our manufacturers; • the availability and cost of raw materials and components for our products; • limited use of our net operating loss carry-forwards; • an increase in product warranty returns or in our allowance for doubtful accounts; and • operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failures of our order processing system. 14 Table of Contents Our results for any particular quarter or year may be positively or negatively impacted by the timing or occurrence of any of these events. Consequently, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a meaningful indication of the condition or trend of our business, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Because our business is subject to variability, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In this event, our stock price could decline significantly. An increasing portion of our business has shifted to sales under open credit terms, which increases our need for working capital and may create difficulties in the collection of our accounts receivable. Our sales in different geographic regions have typically followed commercial practices for those regions. Our primary target markets include Asia, EMEA, and Latin America. We have experienced long payment cycles that have had a significant negative impact on our working capital. In our Asia and EMEA markets, we customarily accept customer orders based on prepayment terms or letters of credit. This reduces our working capital requirements because we are able to quickly collect payment for the products that we deliver and pay our third-party manufacturers and vendors. If there are any discrepancies with the documents presented by the manufacturers, the freight forwarder or us, it may cause the letters of credit to be invalid or payment to be delayed. If a letter of credit is issued late or we experience problems collecting on letters of credit, shipments will be delayed, which may cause us to miss our quarterly financial projections. In our Latin America market, most customer orders are based on open credit terms. In the second half of 2007, slow payments from our customers in Venezuela resulted in a working capital shortfall, which resulted in shipment delays from WNC and impacted our results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2007. In 2008, we entered into a distribution agreement for Venezuela with a distributor that provides us with letters of credit for our sales made to that distributor, but that agreement may be terminated at any time. To the extent that current or future customers or distributors are unable or unwilling to establish letters of credit acceptable to us and our finance provider, we would be forced to sell on open account or decline the order. Any sales on open account would require us to have greater working capital in order to fulfill such customers’ orders. In such an event, we would be subject to greater collections risks and might be precluded from accepting large orders from these customers due to limitations on our working capital. Any inability to accept orders could harm our ability to meet our projections and reduce our revenues. We depend on a single third-party manufacturer to produce substantially all of our products. We currently rely on WNC to manufacture almost all of our products. As a result, we are subject to risks affecting WNC’s business. Such risks include delays in WNC’s manufacturing process, disruptions in its workforce or manufacturing capabilities, capacity constraints, quality control problems and compliance by WNC with import and export restrictions of the United States and foreign countries. In connection with the current financial crisis, WNC has notified us that their credit lines are being reviewed. We do not know at this point whether there will be any change, or the extent to which any change would impact the amount or terms of credit that WNC provides to us. Any limitation in the credit they extend to us may impact our ability to fulfill customer orders. In addition, if our business grows, WNC may need to make additional capital expenditures, which it may choose not to do. Any of these risks could result in a delay of quality products being shipped to our customers, which could negatively impact our revenues, our reputation and our competitive position in our industry. We expect to continue to rely primarily on a limited number of third-party manufacturers to produce our products. Our reliance on third party manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks that are beyond our control, including: • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs; • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner; 15 Table of Contents • interruptions in shipments for an extended period of time due to acts of God, war, terrorism, earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, damaging winds or floods or a recurrence of widespread pandemic; • interruptions in manufacturing and shipments for an extended period of time due to, among other reasons, shortages of electricity or water; • inability to control quality of finished products, delivery schedules, and manufacturing yield; • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers; • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; • inability to secure adequate volumes of components in a timely fashion or at expected prices; • unwillingness of our current or future manufacturing suppliers to provide sufficient credit to support our sales; • manufacturing delays due to lack of financing, availability of parts, labor stoppages, disruptions or political instability in the region; and • scarcity of shipping containers. All of our products purchased from WNC are made on a purchase order basis and WNC is not obligated to accept any purchase order on the terms we request or at all. We currently purchase all of our products from WNC on a purchase order basis. WNC is not obligated to accept any purchase order we submit and may elect not to supply products to us on the terms we request, including terms related to specific quantities, pricing or timing of deliveries. If WNC were to refuse to fulfill our purchase orders on terms that we request or on terms that would enable us to recover our expenses and make a profit, we may lose sales or experience reduced margins, either of which would adversely affect our results of operation. Further, if WNC were to cease manufacturing our products on acceptable terms, we might not be able to identify and secure the services of a new third-party manufacturer in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. During the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we were substantially behind in our payments to WNC. WNC suspended shipments of certain products and stopped inventory purchases of components for our products because of our overdue account with them. That shipment delay impacted our results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2007 as we were unable to ship customer orders and unable to meet customer delivery requirements for new orders. Any significant decline in our working capital could cause us to fall behind with WNC and result in future shipment delays, disrupting our ability to deliver product to our customers. We rely on third party providers of components and subassemblies for our products, and if they fail to provide timely quality products, our business and reputation could be harmed. Our products are comprised of a number of components and subassemblies which we or our manufacturers purchase from third parties. Some of those components and subassemblies are complex and may contain defects in design, materials or workmanship. We receive product warranties from the suppliers of these components and subassemblies. However, any interruption in supply, design or manufacturing defects in those components or subassemblies could cause us to delay or lose sales, or result in product recalls which could damage our financial position and business reputation. In addition, our access to those components and subassemblies is subject to the third party supplier’s decisions concerning production volumes and length of time to offer a product. Any decision by a subcomponent or subassembly supplier to reduce production or terminate production for a component or subassembly that we use could force us to pay more for the components or subassemblies, or redesign our products to use different components or subassemblies. 16 Table of Contents We rely on limited or sole sources for many of our components. We rely on third-party vendors to supply components for the manufacture of our products. Our components are purchased on a purchase order basis. Any shortage or delay in the supply of key components may harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our components and subassemblies. As a result, some key components are purchased only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. If demand for a specific component increases, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of that component in a timely manner. In addition, if our suppliers experience financial or other difficulties, the availability of these components could be limited. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, problems in obtaining or delays in receiving adequate and reliable quantities of various components from certain key suppliers. It could be difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components, if we experience any interruption in the supply of components or if the cost of our components increases, our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries could be harmed, which could result in lost orders, harm to our reputation and reduced revenues. We may experience delays in manufacturing and our costs may increase if we are unable to accurately forecast all of our needs. We utilize a rolling forecast of demand, which we and WNC, our primary manufacturer, use to determine our component requirements. Lead times for ordering components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for and availability of a component at a given time. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, WNC or any other third-party manufacturer that we use in the future, may not be able to manufacture products in a timely manner. If we cannot produce our products in a timely manner, the liquidated damages provisions in some of our contracts with our customers may require us to sell our products at a loss. If our forecasts are too high, we and our manufacturer may build excess inventory. In addition, we may be unable to use the components that were purchased based on our forecasts. The cost of the components tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and technologies mature. Therefore, if we or WNC are unable to use components purchased based on our forecasts, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher priced components. Excess components or inventory will tie up working capital and cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs, which may cause us to borrow additional funds that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Further, excess components or inventory not used or sold in a timely manner may become obsolete causing write-offs or write-downs, which could seriously harm our results of operations. We may decide or be forced to stock inventory of components or finished product. Historically, we have made an effort not to maintain an inventory of our products or components and subassemblies. Instead, we produce products only on receipt of orders from our customers, and our principal contract manufacturers maintain an inventory of components and subassemblies. In addition, under the terms of our agreements with our manufacturers, we can delay receipt of finished goods for a specified period. However, if a customer cancels an order and we cannot identify a new purchaser for that product, we may be forced to acquire the inventory from our manufacturer and hold it in our inventory. In addition, for competitive reasons or because of delays in the supply chain, we may be forced to stock additional components or finished product. This may require substantial working capital, which would be costly and might be unavailable, or may cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs. The inventory we stock might become obsolete, requiring us to write it off and sustain a loss, which could be substantial. We rely on a small number of customers for substantially all of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers would seriously harm our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, two of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 48% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised approximately 31% and 17% of revenues, 17 Table of Contents respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 69% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised 32%, 20% and 17% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 57% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised 24%, 19% and 14% of revenues, respectively. If we lose one or more of our significant customers or if one or more of our significant customers scales back its orders, and we are unable to replace the sales of our products to other customers, our revenues may decline significantly and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Our goal is to continue to expand our customer base so that we are less reliant on a few significant customers. We are attempting to develop other geographic markets for our products and services, including other regions in the Americas and EMEA, while still maintaining and expanding our volume of sales to our existing significant customers. We can make no assurance, however, that we will succeed in diversifying our customer base, developing other geographic markets or in becoming less reliant on a small number of customers. Failure to diversify our customer base and become less reliant on a small number of customers subjects us to more risk in the event that one or more of our significant customers stops or reduces it purchases of our products. A substantial portion of the products we sell are sold on a purchase order basis. Although these purchase orders are generally not cancelable, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders, which could negatively impact our revenues. At present, our customers generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, we generally carry little backlog and have limited visibility into the long term purchasing plans of our customers. Orders covered by firm purchase orders are generally not cancelable; however, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders. In the event that we experience any delays or cancellations, we would have difficulty enforcing the provisions of the purchase order and our revenues could decline substantially. Any such decline could result in us incurring net losses, increasing our accumulated deficit and needing to raise additional capital to fund our operations. If we do not compete effectively in the fixed wireless telecommunications market, our revenues and market share will decline. The markets for fixed wireless products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase. As we develop new products we anticipate increased competition from well funded competitors. These competitors may be able to: • more accurately predict the new or emerging technologies desired by the market; • respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies; • respond more rapidly than we can to changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources than we do to sales or research and development efforts; • offer vendor financing for their products; • promote their products more effectively, including selling their products at a loss in order to obtain market share or bundling their products with other products that we do not offer in order to promote an end-to-end solution for their customers that we cannot match; and • obtain components and manufacture and sell products at lower prices as a result of efficiencies of scale or purchasing power, thereby rendering our products non-competitive or forcing us to sell our products at reduced gross margins. 18 Table of Contents If we are not successful in continuing to win competitive bids, in enhancing our products and customer relationships and in managing our cost structure so that we can provide competitive prices, we may experience reduced sales and our market share may decline. We may not be able to compete effectively against larger and better capitalized competitors. Larger and better capitalized competitors such as LG Electronics, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and ZTE Corporation have significantly greater penetration in key markets than we do. Economies of scale allow these competitors to offer product pricing and related incentives that we may be unable to match. Our target customers are large telecommunications service providers serving developing countries and regions where demand for basic telephone service has grown substantially in recent years. Our competitors may be better positioned to pursue opportunities in those developing countries. Dominance in certain key markets may serve to effectively “lock out” competitors, including us, and may allow these larger competitors to achieve and maintain higher profit margins in those markets than they could otherwise. These profit margins may allow these larger competitors to subsidize expansion efforts in geographic areas in which we operate and in which we are substantially dependent for a significant portion of our revenue. We expect to experience competitive pricing pressure for our products, which may impair our revenue growth, gross margins and ability to sustain profitability. Pricing for fixed wireless phones has been declining along with pricing in general for telecommunications equipment and other technology products. We believe that these pricing trends will affect both wireless phones as well as modems. We expect these trends will continue in the future and perhaps accelerate, particularly if large companies with greater purchasing power enter the market or other competitors enter the market with lesser quality products or improper license rights. Accordingly, as we reduce our selling prices, our results of operations will be adversely affected unless we can generate equivalent cost reductions in our cost of goods and otherwise. Opportunities in the fixed wireless telecommunications industry could be impacted by decreasing prices for mobile handsets. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues have been derived from sales of fixed wireless telephones. Sales prices for comparably featured telephones have declined over the past several years. Furthermore, the wireless telecommunications industry generally is subject to rapid technological change, with increased product functionality and rapid product obsolescence. Prices for basic mobile handsets have dropped significantly. Falling prices of mobile wireless handsets could cause them to be more economically competitive with our products and may result in decreased demand for our fixed wireless telephones. We will need to develop new products and features to meet the changing needs of our customers in order to be successful. The wireless telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. To maintain and increase our revenues, we must develop and market new products and enhancements to existing products that keep pace with advancing technological developments and industry standards and that address the needs of our customers and their end users. The process of developing new technology and products is complex, uncertain and expensive, and success depends on a number of factors, including: • predicting market acceptance of new technology platforms; • proper product definition; • component cost; 19 Table of Contents • resolving technical hurdles and obtaining appropriate product certifications as required by our customers; • timely completion and introduction to the market; • differentiation from the products of our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. We must commit significant resources for research and development of new products, in many instances, before knowing whether our investments will result in products the fixed wireless telecommunications market will accept. Further, we may be required to purchase licenses from third parties in connection with the development of new products and these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully introduce new products and technologies, our products may not be accepted by the market or we may be unable to sell our products at prices that are sufficient to recover our investment in developing those new products. Many of the end users in our target markets have low incomes and rely on subsidies from telecommunications service providers in order to purchase our products. If we fail to introduce new products at prices that are competitive and allow us to generate a profit, we will lose customers and market share and the value of our company will decline. From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions which, if consummated, may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, and may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. We will, from time to time, consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. Evaluating potential acquisitions can be expensive and require significant management resources without significant return unless the acquisitions are completed successfully. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • failure to adequately integrate operations or obtain anticipated operative efficiencies; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the rules and regulations related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. For most of our products, we rely upon a license and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated for CDMA technology that is critical to our products. Substantially all of the products we have sold to date are based on proprietary CDMA technology that we license from Qualcomm. Our non-exclusive license from Qualcomm does not have a specified term and may be 20 Table of Contents terminated by us or by Qualcomm for cause or upon the occurrence of specified events, If we were to lose access to this licensed technology, we would be forced to acquire rights to, or otherwise develop, other non-infringing technology. We also depend upon Qualcomm to provide the chipsets critical for the manufacture of our products. We purchase these chipsets from Qualcomm on a purchase order basis, and we cannot be certain that we will receive chipsets from Qualcomm on terms, including pricing, quality and timing, that allow us to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis, or at all. Further, as Qualcomm modifies its chipsets, we must ensure that our products and the networks upon which our products function are compatible with the modified chipsets in accordance with the requirements of our customers. Even if there is a second source for these chipsets, establishing a relationship with that source may be time consuming and expensive, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product on a timely basis and at a price that will enable us to sell our products at a price above our cost of sales. If we experience any delay in the delivery of chipsets, if we are unable to obtain chipsets on terms that are consistent with our expectations or if our products are not compatible with the modified chipsets, our ability to timely deliver our products to our customers and at prices that will enable us to make a profit might be harmed, which could negatively impact our gross margins, our reputation and our competitive position in the marketplace. Our products are complex and may contain errors or defects, which may cause us to incur significant unexpected expenses and lose sales. Our products are complex and must meet stringent customer and end user requirements. In addition, we regularly introduce new products and designs. Although our products are examined and tested prior to release, these tests cannot uncover all problems that may occur once our products are widely deployed to end users. As a result, we have limited experience as to the long-term performance attributes of our products and whether they will develop errors or defects in the future. If errors or defects are discovered and we are unable to promptly correct those errors or defects, we could experience the following, any of which would harm our business: • costs associated with testing, verification and the remediation of any problems; • costs associated with design modifications; • loss of or delay in sales or high level of returns; • loss of customers; • failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of market share; • increased service and warranty costs; • liabilities and damages to our customers and end users; and • increased insurance costs. We may experience long sales cycles for our products. Our sales cycle depends on the length of time required for adoption of new technologies in our target markets. At times, orders for our products are tied to the rollout of new infrastructure by the telecommunications service providers, the precise timing of which is subject to financing, construction and other delays beyond our control. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and that customer’s decision to purchase our products is relatively long. The evaluation, testing, acceptance, proposal, contract negotiation, funding and implementation process can extend over many months. It generally takes us between three and six months to complete a sale to a customer; however in certain instances the sales cycle may be substantially longer. As a result, we may not be successful in forecasting with certainty the sales that we will make in a given period. 21 Table of Contents If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens in general or for one or more large orders, the timing of our revenues could be delayed and results of operations could be negatively impacted in any quarter. Therefore, quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenues may not necessarily be meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, sales cycles that are longer than we expect likely will harm our ability to generate sufficient cash to cover our working capital requirements for a given period. We must expand our customer base in order to grow our business. To grow our business, we must fulfill orders from our existing customers, obtain additional orders from our existing customers, develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill orders from new customers. The number of telecommunications service providers operating fixed wireless networks, and therefore the number of our prospective customers, is limited. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop relationships with additional telecommunications service providers and other customers and obtain purchase orders from those customers. Further, even if we do obtain purchase orders from additional telecommunications service providers, there is no guarantee that those orders will be for product quantities or at product prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling the orders. Whether we will be able to obtain additional orders for our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the continued acceptance of fixed wireless products; • the growth in our target markets of wireless infrastructure; • whether any of our customers require us to grant exclusivity or impose other restrictions on our ability to market our products to other carriers in the same geographic region at competitive prices; • our ability to manufacture reliable products at competitive prices that have the features that are required by our customers and the end users of those products; and • our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to additional orders for our products. Any failure to maintain sales through agents and other third-party resellers, distributors and manufacturers of complementary technologies could harm our business. To date, we have sold our products to our customers through our direct sales force with significant involvement from senior management and, when desirable or required by the laws of a particular jurisdiction or a prospective customer, through local agents and a network of other third parties, such as resellers, distributors and manufacturers of complementary technologies. We rely on these agents and third parties to assist us in providing customer contacts and marketing our products directly to potential customers. When working with agents, we may enter into exclusive arrangements that preclude us from using another agent or making sales directly in a particular territory, which could harm our ability to develop new customer relationships. Certain agents and other third parties are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time. Our ability to increase our revenues in the future may depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with these agents, distributors and other third parties. Any failure to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties and any failure of these third parties to effectively market our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We have a small employee base and depend substantially on our current executive officers and management. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineering, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products, and damage the market’s perception of us. Our success also may depend on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. In particular, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and 22 Table of Contents retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications. Competition for qualified engineers is intense, especially in San Diego, California, where our headquarters are located, and in Seoul, South Korea, where our research and development center is located. If we lose the services of a significant number of our engineers and cannot hire and integrate additional engineers, our ability to develop our products and implement our business strategy could be harmed. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. In addition, effective trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. There is no guarantee that the patents that we have received or any additional patents that we may receive in the future, if any, will provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Further, any patent that we have or may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position will be significantly harmed because it will be much easier for competitors to sell products similar to ours. Alternatively, a competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our technology. If this happens, any patent that we may obtain may not provide protection and our competitive position could be significantly harmed. As we expand our product lines or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection. In some countries outside of the United States, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. Our competitive position could be seriously damaged and we may incur substantial expenses if we become party to lawsuits alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies, including our competitors, may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, our products may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, and if we are unable to license the infringed technology or our current licenses do not contain adequate indemnification or warranties to cover the claim, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced or negative gross margins, harm to our reputation if we are unable to provide remedies to our customers and general harm to our competitive position in the marketplace. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 23 Table of Contents • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign products that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products under our brand name, Axesstel. We use our brand name to compete in the fixed wireless telecommunications market. We have expended significant resources promoting our brand name, and we have three registered trademarks in the United States and have applied for and received a number of trademarks in developing countries where we sell our products. However, registration of our brand name trademark will not necessarily deter or prevent unauthorized use by others. If other companies use our brand name, consumers may not recognize us as the source of our products. This would reduce the value of goodwill associated with our brand name. This consumer confusion and the resulting reduction in goodwill could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. Even if we identify an infringement of our brand or trademarks, asserting a claim may be costly and time consuming. We may face litigation that could significantly damage our business and financial condition. In the telecommunications equipment industry, litigation is being used increasingly as a competitive tactic by both established companies seeking to protect their position in the market and by emerging companies attempting to gain access to the market. In this type of litigation, complaints may be filed on various grounds, such as antitrust, breach of contract, trade secret, copyright or patent infringement, patent or copyright invalidity, and unfair business practices. If we are required to defend ourselves against one or more of these claims, whether or not they have any merit, we are likely to incur substantial expense and management’s attention will be diverted from operations. This type of litigation also may cause confusion in the market and make our licensees and distributors reluctant to commit resources to our products. Any of these effects could harm our business and result in a decline in the value of your investment in our stock. A large amount of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders and our common stock is thinly traded. A small number of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may sell in the public market. In addition, our common stock is thinly traded and any significant sales of our common stock may cause volatility in our common stock price. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. If any of these stockholders sell a large number of our shares, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, could significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business 24 Table of Contents combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of their actions or inaction our stock price may decline. Our failure to predict and comply with evolving wireless industry standards, including 3G standards, could reduce our ability to introduce and sell new products. We must accurately anticipate evolving wireless technology standards and offer products that comply with such standards. We engineer and manufacture products that comply with several different 3G wireless standards. If our products fail to comply with any one of these or future applicable standards, our ability to introduce and sell new products could be reduced or we could be required to make costly and time-consuming engineering changes. Additionally, if a significant number of wireless operators do not adopt the standards to which our products are engineered, then sales of such new products could be materially harmed. We may not be able to develop products that comply with applicable government regulations. Our products must comply with government regulations. For example, in the United States, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, regulates many aspects of communications devices, including radiation of electromagnetic energy, biological safety and rules for devices to be connected to telephone networks. In addition to the federal government regulations, certain states have adopted regulations applicable to our products. Radio frequency devices, which include our modems, must be approved under the above regulations by obtaining equipment authorization from the FCC prior to being offered for sale. Regulatory requirements in EMEA, Asia and Latin America must also be met. Additionally, we cannot anticipate the effect that changes in domestic or foreign government regulations may have on our ability to develop and sell products in the future. Failure to comply with existing or evolving government regulations or to obtain timely regulatory approvals or certificates for our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows. We are not currently in compliance with certain requirements for continued listing on the NYSE Amex exchange. On March 5, 2008, we received a notice from the American Stock Exchange (now known as the NYSE Amex) notifying us that the staff of its listing qualifications department had determined that we were not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) and Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Amex Company Guide (now known as the NYSE Amex Company Guide) for failure to maintain certain minimum stockholders equity. Under the terms of the notice, we had until April 7, 2008, to submit a plan describing the actions that we have taken, and intend to take, in order to regain compliance with the listing standards before September 7, 2009. We submitted such plan of compliance, and on May 5, 2008, NYSE Amex accepted our plan. Even though our plan was accepted and our common stock continues to be listed on NYSE Amex, we are subject to periodic review to determine if we are making progress consistent with our plan. If our operating results negatively deviate substantially from our plan, or we are not in compliance by September 7, 2009, we will be subject to delisting proceedings. If our common stock is delisted from NYSE Amex we would apply to have it trade on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks traded on the OTC Bulletin Board may experience more limited trading volume and exhibit wider spreads between the bid/ask quotation. In addition, our common stock would become subject to the “penny stock” rules, which impose additional customer suitability and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers effecting transactions in common stock. These requirements would adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Nevada law and provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent a potential takeover bid that would be beneficial to common stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that enable our board of directors to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the 25 Table of Contents price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • our directors may fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our stockholders are permitted to remove members of our board of directors only upon the vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at a meeting called for such purpose; • stockholder proposals and nominations for directors to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures, which require that all such proposals and nominations must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; • a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our chief executive officer, president or secretary, or by resolution of our board of directors; and • our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. In addition, provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes provide that a person acquiring a controlling interest in an issuing corporation, and those acting in association with such person, obtain only such voting rights in the control shares as are conferred by stockholders (excluding such acquiring and associated persons) holding a majority of the voting power of the issuing corporation. For purposes of these provisions, “issuing corporation” means a corporation organized in Nevada which has 200 or more stockholders of record, at least 100 of whom have addresses in Nevada on the corporation’s stock ledger, and does business in Nevada directly or through an affiliate, and “controlling interest” means the ownership of outstanding voting shares enabling the acquiring person to exercise (either directly or in association with others) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more of the voting power of the issuing corporation in the election of directors. Accordingly, the provisions could require multiple votes with respect to voting rights in share acquisitions effected in separate stages, and the effect of these provisions may be to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 