ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve the intended operating results is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the ones identified below, and additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. We rely on a small number of customers for substantially all of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers would seriously harm our business. For the year ended December 31, 2006, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 57% of our revenues, whose orders comprised 24%, 19% and 14% of revenues respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005, two of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 80% of our revenues, of which one customer comprised approximately 59% and the other customers comprised approximately 21% of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2004, two of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 86% of our revenues, of which one customer comprised approximately 71% and the other customers comprised approximately 15% of revenues. We expect that our dependence on a small number of customers will continue into the foreseeable future. At present, these customers generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis. Orders covered by firm purchase orders are generally not cancelable; however, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders. In the event that we experience any delays or cancellations, we would have difficulty enforcing the provisions of the purchase order and our revenues could decline substantially. Any such decline could result in us incurring net losses, increasing our accumulated deficit and needing to raise additional capital to fund our operations. Our international sales and operations subject us to various risks associated with, among other things, foreign laws, policies, economies and exchange rate fluctuations. Our primary target markets include India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines, China, Russia, and Latin America. Our largest customer in 2006 was in Venezuela, where the government is in the process of acquiring 11 Table of Contents control of the nation’s telecommunications industry. We cannot determine at this time how such change in control will affect our sales to that country. Our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These risks affecting our international sales and operations include: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets, where substantially all of our customers are located; • difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements applicable to our operations and products; • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including work stoppages or strikes and cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian bird flu. These international risks make our ability to meet the demand for wireless products unpredictable. In addition, because all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect the market price for our products in countries in which they are sold. If the currency of a particular country weakens against the U.S. dollar, the cost of our products in that country may increase to the service provider and end user, which may result in the service provider or end user choosing to purchase the products of one of our competitors instead of our products. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We believe that our operating results may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed below as well as others listed in this “Risk Factors” section: • our current reliance on large-volume orders from only a few customers; • the receipt and shipment of large orders or reductions in these orders; • variability between customer and product mix; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in the terms of our arrangements with customers or suppliers; • ability of our customers to accurately forecast demand for our products by their end users; • general economic conditions in developing countries which are in our target markets; • the timing of final product approvals from any major customer; 12 Table of Contents • delays or failures to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; • the ability of our customers to obtain letters of credit that are satisfactory to us and our ability to confirm them in a timely manner; • our inability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products by us or market acceptance of these products; • our ability to finance our working capital needs; • change in the financial position of our manufacturer; • the availability and cost of raw materials and components for our products; • limited use of our net operating loss carry-forwards; • an increase in product warranty returns or in our allowance for doubtful accounts; and • operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failures of our order processing system. A substantial portion of our sales in a given quarter may depend on obtaining orders for products to be manufactured and shipped in the same quarter in which those orders are received. As a result of these factors, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In this event, our stock price could decline significantly. An increasing portion of our business has shifted to sales under open credit terms, increasing our need for working capital. The transition to credit terms may create difficulties in the collection of our accounts receivable. In addition, we may need to maintain greater working capital in the future, and if we fail to obtain sufficient working capital we may have to limit our acceptance of customer purchase orders. Our sales in different geographic regions have typically followed commercial practices for those regions. In our Asia markets, we customarily accept customer orders based on letters of credit that our customers place with us. This generally enables us to maintain a low level of working capital because we are able to quickly collect payment for the products that we deliver and pay our third-party vendors. If there are any discrepancies with the documents presented by the manufacturers, the freight forwarder or us, it may cause the letters of credit to be invalid or payment to be delayed. If a letter of credit is issued late or we experience problems collecting on letters of credit, shipments will be delayed, which may cause us to miss our quarterly financial projections. As we have diversified our customer base to other geographic regions, we have followed local commercial practices which in some regions have meant extending credit terms to customers. As a result of this shift in sales terms, we have been required to maintain a greater level of working capital and to borrow money in order to pay our manufacturer and third-party vendors. To the extent that current or future customers are unable or unwilling to establish letters of credit acceptable to us, we would need to have greater working capital in order to fulfill such customers’ orders. In such an event, we would be subject to greater collections risks and might be precluded from accepting large orders from these customers due to limitations on our working capital. Any inability to accept orders could harm our ability to meet our projections and reduce our revenues. If we cannot achieve and sustain profitable operations, we may need to raise additional capital to continue our operations, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and which may dilute your investment. We have incurred significant operating losses to date. We incurred a net loss of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006; a net loss of $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and a net loss of $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $28.6 million. Achieving and sustaining profitability will require us to increase our revenues, reduce our 13 Table of Contents manufacturing costs and manage our operating and administrative expenses. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in achieving and then maintaining profitability and eliminating our accumulated deficit. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to pay our expenses and our existing sources of cash and cash flows are otherwise insufficient to fund our activities, we will need to raise additional funds to continue our operations. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining profitability and reducing our accumulated deficit, and we cannot obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or cease our operations, which could result in the loss of all of your investment in our stock. We rely on third party providers of components and subassemblies for our products, and if they fail to provide timely quality products, our business and reputation could be harmed. Our products are comprised of a number of components and subassemblies which we or our manufacturers purchase from third parties. Some of those components and subassemblies are complex and may contain defects in design, materials or workmanship. We receive product warranties from the suppliers of these components. However, any interruption in supply, design or manufacturing defects in those components or subassemblies could cause us to delay or lose sales, or result in product recalls which could damage our financial position and business reputation. We may not be able to compete effectively against larger and better capitalized competitors. Larger and better capitalized competitors such as LG Electronics, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and ZTE Corporation have significantly greater penetration in key markets than we do. Economies of scale allow these competitors to offer product pricing and related incentives that we may be unable to match. Our target customers are large telecommunications service providers serving developing countries and regions where demand for basic telephone service has grown substantially in recent years. Our competitors may choose to and may be better positioned to pursue opportunities in those developing countries. Dominance in certain key markets may serve to effectively “lock out” competitors, including us, and may allow these larger competitors to achieve and maintain higher profit margins than they could otherwise. These profit margins may allow these larger competitors to subsidize expansion efforts in geographic areas in which we operate and in which we are substantially dependent for a significant portion of our revenue. If we do not compete effectively in the fixed wireless telecommunications market, our revenues and market share will decline. The markets for fixed wireless products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase. Competition is particularly intense in the market for wireless data products, and as we develop new products we anticipate coming in competition with other well funded competitors. These competitors may be able to: • select more accurately the new or emerging technologies desired by the market; • respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies; • respond more rapidly than we can to changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources than we do to sales or research and development efforts; • offer vendor financing for their products; • promote their products more effectively, including selling their products at a loss in order to obtain market share or bundling their products with other products that we do not offer in order to promote an end-to-end solution for their customers that we cannot match; and 14 Table of Contents • obtain components and manufacture and sell products at lower prices as a result of efficiencies of scale or purchasing power, thereby rendering our products non-competitive or forcing us to sell our products at reduced or negative gross margins. If we are not successful in continuing to win competitive bids, in enhancing our products and customer relationships and in managing our cost structure so that we can provide competitive prices, we may experience reduced sales and our market share may decline. We expect to experience competitive pricing pressure for our products, which may impair our revenue growth, gross margins and ability to achieve profitability. Pricing for fixed wireless phones has been declining along with pricing in general for telecommunications equipment and other technology products. We believe that these pricing trends will affect both wireless phones as well as modems and will continue in the future and perhaps accelerate, particularly if large companies with greater purchasing power enter the market or other competitors enter the market with lesser quality products or improper license rights. Accordingly, as we reduce our selling prices, our results of operations will be adversely affected unless we can generate equivalent cost reductions in our cost of goods and otherwise. Opportunities in the fixed wireless telecommunications industry could be impacted by decreasing prices for mobile handsets. Historically a substantial portion of our revenues have been derived from sales of fixed wireless telephones. Sales prices for comparably featured telephones have declined over the past several years. Furthermore, the wireless telecommunications industry generally is subject to rapid technological change, with increased product functionality and rapid product obsolescence. Prices for basic mobile handsets have dropped significantly Falling prices of mobile wireless handsets, could cause them to be more economically competitive with our products and may result in decreased in demand for our fixed wireless telephones. We will need to develop new products and features to meet the needs of our customers in order to be successful. The fixed wireless telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. To maintain and increase our revenues, we must develop and market new products and enhancements to existing products that keep pace with advancing technological developments and industry standards and that address the needs of our customers and their end users. The process of developing new technology and products is complex, uncertain and expensive, and success depends on a number of factors, including: • predicting market acceptance of new technology platforms. • proper product definition; • component cost; • resolving technical hurdles and obtaining appropriate product certifications as required by our customers; • timely completion and introduction to the market; • differentiation from the products of our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. We must commit significant resources for research and development of new products, in many instances, before knowing whether our investments will result in products the fixed wireless telecommunications market 15 Table of Contents will accept. Further, we may be required to purchase licenses from third parties in connection with the development of new products and these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully introduce new products and technologies, our products may not be accepted by the market or we may be unable to sell our products at prices that are sufficient to recover our investment in developing those new products. In particular, many of the end users in our target markets have low incomes and rely on subsidies from telecommunications service providers in order to purchase our products. If we fail to introduce new products at prices that are competitive and allow us to generate a profit, we will lose customers and market share and the value of our company will decline. We may not address successfully the problems encountered in connection with any potential future acquisitions. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • failure to adequately integrate operations or obtain anticipated operative efficiencies; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the newly adopted rules and regulations related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. For most of our products, we rely upon a license and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated for CDMA technology that is critical to our products. Substantially all of the products we have sold to date are based on proprietary CDMA technology that we license from Qualcomm. Our non-exclusive license from Qualcomm does not have a specified term and may be terminated by us or by Qualcomm for cause or upon the occurrence of specified events. If we were to lose access to this licensed technology, we would be forced to acquire rights to, or otherwise develop, other non-infringing technology, which would likely require us to adopt a wireless protocol other than CDMA, such as WCDMA. We might be unsuccessful in acquiring rights to, or otherwise developing, products based on these alternative technologies, and even if we are successful, the costs of acquiring or developing products based on an alternative technology and adapting our products to incorporate such technology might be so great that it would preclude us from being able to sell our products at competitive prices in the market. We also depend upon Qualcomm to provide the chipsets critical for the manufacture of our products. We purchase these chipsets from Qualcomm on a purchase order basis, and we cannot be certain that we will receive chipsets from Qualcomm on terms, including pricing, quality and timing, that allow us to deliver our products to 16 Table of Contents our customers on a timely basis, or at all. From time to time, we may experience delays in receiving chipsets from Qualcomm because of increased demand in the market for these chipsets. Further, as Qualcomm modifies its chipsets, we must ensure that our products and the networks upon which our products function are compatible with the modified chipsets in accordance with the requirements of our customers. Even if there is a second source for these chipsets, establishing a relationship with that source may be time consuming and expensive, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our product on a timely basis and at a price that will enable us to sell our products at a price above our cost of sales. If we experience any delay in the delivery of chipsets, if we are unable to obtain chipsets on terms that are consistent with our expectations or if our products are not compatible with the modified chipsets, our ability to timely deliver our products to our customers and at prices that will enable us to make a profit might be harmed, which could negatively impact our gross margins, our reputation and our competitive position in the marketplace. We rely on limited or sole sources for many of our components. In addition to Qualcomm, we rely on third-party vendors to supply components for the manufacture of our products. Our components are purchased on a purchase order basis. Any shortage or delay in the supply of key components may harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our components and subassemblies. As a result, some key components are purchased only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. If demand for a specific component increases, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of that component in a timely manner. In addition, if our suppliers experience financial or other difficulties, the availability of these components could be limited. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, problems in obtaining or delays in receiving adequate and reliable quantities of various components from certain key suppliers. It could be difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components, if we experience any interruption in the supply of components or if the cost of our components increases, our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries could be harmed, which could result in lost orders, harm to our reputation and reduced revenues. We depend on a single third-party manufacturer to produce a majority of our products. We currently rely on WNC to manufacture almost all of our products. We expect to continue to rely primarily on a limited number of third-party manufacturers to produce our products. Our reliance on others for our manufacturing exposes us to a number of risks which are outside our control, including: • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs; • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner; • interruptions in shipments for an extended period of time due to acts of God, war, terrorism, earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, damaging winds or floods or a recurrence of sudden acute respiratory syndrome or similar widespread pandemic; • interruptions in manufacturing and shipments for an extended period of time due to shortages of electricity or water; • inability to control quality of finished products; • inability to control delivery schedules; • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers; • inability to control manufacturing yield; 17 Table of Contents • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; • inability to secure adequate volumes of components in a timely fashion or at expected prices; • unwillingness of our current or future manufacturing suppliers to provide sufficient credit to support our sales; • manufacturing delays due to lack of financing, availability of parts, labor stoppages, disruptions or political instability in the region; and • scarcity of shipping containers. In addition, we currently purchase all of our products from WNC on a purchase order basis. WNC is not obligated to accept any purchase order we submit and therefore may elect not to supply products to us on the terms we request, including terms related to specific quantities, pricing or timing of deliveries. If WNC were to refuse to fulfill our purchase orders on terms that we request or on terms that would enable us to recover our expenses and make a profit, we may lose sales or experience reduced margins, either of which would adversely affect our results of operation. Further, if WNC were to cease manufacturing our products on acceptable terms, we might not be able to identify and secure the services of a new third-party manufacturer in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Given that we rely primarily on WNC to manufacture our products, we are subject to risks affecting WNC’s business, including delays in its manufacturing process, availability of components, disruptions in its workforce or manufacturing capabilities, capacity constraints, quality control problems and compliance by WNC with import and export restrictions of the United States and foreign countries. In particular, in order to meet our projected demand, WNC may need to make additional capital expenditures, which it may choose not to do. Any of these risks could result in a delay of quality products being shipped to our customers, which could negatively impact our revenues, our reputation and our competitive position in our industry. We may experience delays in manufacturing and our costs may increase if we are unable to accurately forecast all of our needs. We utilize a rolling forecast of demand, which we and WNC use to determine our component requirements. Lead times for ordering components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for and availability of a component at a given time. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, we, WNC or any other third-party manufacturer that we use in the future, may not be able to manufacture products in a timely manner or may build excess inventory. Furthermore, if we cannot produce our products in a timely manner, the liquidated damages provisions in some of our contracts with our customers may result in our selling our products at a loss. If our forecasts are too high, we and our manufacturer will be unable to use the components that were purchased based on our forecasts. The cost of the components used in our products tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and technologies mature. Therefore, if we or WNC are unable to use components purchased based on our forecasts, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher priced components. Excess components or inventory will tie up working capital and cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs, which may cause us to borrow additional funds that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Further, excess components or inventory not used or sold in a timely manner may become obsolete causing write-offs or write-downs, which could seriously harm our results of operations. We may decide or be forced to stock inventory of components or finished product. We have begun stocking inventory to meet customer needs. In addition, for competitive reasons or because of delays in the supply chain, we may be forced to stock additional components or finished product. This may require substantial working capital, which would be costly and might be unavailable, or may cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs. The inventory we stock might become obsolete, requiring us to write it off and sustain a loss, which could be substantial. 18 Table of Contents Our products are complex and may contain errors or defects, which may cause us to incur significant unexpected expenses and lose sales. Our products are complex and must meet stringent customer and end user requirements. Although our products are examined and tested prior to release, these tests cannot uncover all problems that may occur once our products are widely deployed to end users. We have been selling our products for a relatively short period of time. As a result, we have limited experience as to the long-term performance attributes of our products and whether they will develop errors in the future. If errors are discovered and we are unable to promptly correct those errors, we could experience the following, any of which would harm our business: • costs associated with testing, verification and the remediation of any problems; • costs associated with design modifications; • loss of or delay in sales or high level of returns; • loss of customers; • failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of market share; • increased service and warranty costs; • liabilities and damages to our customers and end users; and • increased insurance costs. We recently began shipments of products based on the GSM standard and may face unexpected expenses in connection with the manufacture, support and sale of those products. We have recently begun selling phones based on the GSM standard, and have plans to introduce additional products on the GSM and GPRS standards. We do not have substantial experience in manufacturing, selling or supporting products based on those standards. While we have historically had very low incidences of warranty claims for our CDMA based products, our products are complex. We may face higher instances of defects or warranty claims with respect to GSM products, which may result in higher service expenses. Having a GSM product suite will enable us to open new markets and sell to telephone service providers that have deployed GSM based networks. However, we do not currently have substantial experience with selling to this customer base, or designing, pricing and selling products in this market. We may experience long sales cycles for our products, as a result of a variety of factors. Our sales cycle depends on the length of time required for adoption of new technologies in our target markets. In addition, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and its decision to purchase our products is relatively long. The evaluation, testing, acceptance, proposal, contract negotiation, funding and implementation process can extend over many months. Based on our limited operating history, it generally takes us between three and six months to complete a sale to a customer; however, in certain instances the sales cycle may be substantially longer. As a result, we may not be successful in forecasting with certainty the sales that we will make in a given period. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens in general or for one or more large orders, the timing of our revenues and results of operations could be harmed, which in turn could reduce our revenues in any quarter. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, sales cycles that are longer than we expect likely will harm our ability to generate sufficient cash to cover our working capital requirements for a given period. 19 Table of Contents Our growth strategy is dependent on the widespread adoption of third generation CDMA technology by telecommunications service providers. Although we have historically generated a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of our voice and data desktop phones and terminals, our future growth strategy is predicated on deriving a substantial and increasing portion of our revenues from sales of our broadband data products. Our existing broadband data products are based on the CDMA2000 1xEV-DO standard, which is third generation, or 3G, CDMA technology used for high-speed data and voice communications. To date, there are only a limited number of telecommunications service providers whose networks are compatible with our CDMA2000 1xEV-DO broadband modem. Although we believe this standard will eventually be adopted by the majority of telecommunications service providers currently using CDMA technology, there can be no assurance that they will adopt the standard or if they do, how rapidly and widely the standard will be implemented. If the CDMA2000 1xEV-DO standard is not widely implemented, the market for our broadband data products will be limited, and we will not be able to execute our growth strategy unless we change our products to operate on a competing standard which is more widely deployed. Changing our products to a different standard would require significant investment and may place us at a distinct disadvantage in getting our products to market in a timely and competitive manner. We depend in substantial part on the adoption and acceptance of fixed wireless telecommunications in developing countries and regions to create demand for our products. Our target customers are large telecommunications service providers who are developing wireless services in developing countries and regions where demand for basic telephone service has grown substantially in recent years and where the cost of building a wireless telecommunications infrastructure is preferable to a traditional wire line infrastructure. We sell our products to these service providers, who in turn resell our products to their customers, the end users, to use over the services providers’ telecommunications networks. The economies in many of these countries are fragile and are subject to significant change based on world events. This results in unpredictable demand for our products. If demand for wireless infrastructure in these countries does not continue to increase, if the service providers elect to develop traditional landline infrastructure instead of fixed wireless infrastructure in these countries or if the service providers are unable to finance network expansion and fixed wireless products, demand for our products will not develop. Even if these service providers elect to develop fixed wireless infrastructure, demand for our products will not develop if the service providers are unable to sell their services and our products to the end users at affordable prices. In some instances, service providers purchase our products from us and resell the products to their end users at reduced prices in order to establish a service relationship with those users. If telecommunications service providers do not continue to subsidize the purchase of our products, our revenues may decline if end users cannot afford our products on their own. We must expand our customer base in order to grow our business. To grow our business, we must fulfill orders from our existing customers, obtain additional orders from our existing customers, develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill orders from new customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop relationships with additional telecommunications service providers and other customers and obtain purchase orders from those customers. Further, even if we do obtain purchase orders from additional telecommunications service providers, there is no guarantee that those orders will be for product quantities or at product prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling the orders. Whether we will be able to obtain additional orders for our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the continued acceptance of fixed wireless products; • the growth in our target markets of fixed wireless infrastructure; • whether any of our customers require us to grant exclusivity or impose other restrictions on our ability to market our products to other carriers in the same geographic region at competitive prices; 20 Table of Contents • our ability to manufacture reliable products at competitive prices that have the features that are required by our customers and the end users of those products; and • our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to additional orders for our products. We may have difficulty managing further growth that we might experience. Our business has grown at a significant rate, if we continue to experience growth in our operations, our operational, financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls will need to be expanded, which will result in increased expenses. Our future success will depend substantially on our ability to manage growth effectively. These challenges may include: • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • managing manufacturing expansion projects; • implementing our operational, financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls; • meeting the after sales service level requirements from operators or end users; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; • reducing our operating expenses as a percentage of revenues; and • managing global customer base. Any failure to maintain sales through agents and other third-party resellers, distributors and manufacturers of complementary technologies could harm our business. To date, we have sold our products to our customers through our direct sales force with significant involvement from senior management and, when desirable or required by the laws of a particular jurisdiction or a prospective customer, through local agents and a network of other third parties, such as resellers, distributors and manufacturers of complementary technologies. We rely on these agents and third parties to assist us in providing customer contacts and marketing our products directly to our potential customers. When working with agents, we may enter into exclusive arrangements that preclude us from using another agent or make sales directly in a particular territory, which could harm our ability to develop new customer relationships. Certain agents and other third parties are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time. Our ability to increase our revenues in the future will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with these agents and other third parties. Any failure to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties and any failure of these third parties to effectively market our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon the wireless telecommunications industry, and any downturn in the industry may reduce our sales. All of our sales are derived from the wireless telecommunications industry, and a substantial portion of our sales are derived from customers in developing countries. In general, the global wireless telecommunications industry, particularly in developing countries, is subject to economic cycles and has experienced in the past, and is likely to experience in the future, periods of slowdown. Intense competition, relatively short product cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand characterize the industry as a whole. The wireless telecommunications industry generally is subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. Fluctuations in demand for our products as a result of periods of slowdown in the wireless telecommunications market or discontinuation of products or modifications developed in connection with standards or next generation products could reduce our sales. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We depend substantially on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineering, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage the market’s perception of us. Our success also may depend on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. In particular, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications. Competition for qualified engineers is intense, especially in San Diego, California, where our headquarters are located, and in Seoul, South Korea, where our research and development center is located. If we lose the services of a significant number of our engineers and cannot hire and integrate additional engineers, our ability to develop our products and implement our business strategy could be harmed. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot protect intellectual property rights in our technology. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. In addition, effective trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. There is no guarantee that the patents that we have received or any additional patents that we may receive in the future, if any, will provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Further, any patent that we have or may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products; our competitive position will be significantly harmed because it will be much easier for competitors to sell products similar to ours. Alternatively, a competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our technology. If this happens, any patent that we may obtain may not provide protection and our competitive position could be significantly harmed. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection. In some countries outside of the United States, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we become party to lawsuits alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies, including our competitors, may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, our products 22 Table of Contents may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and if we are unable to license the infringed technology or our current licenses do not contain adequate indemnification or warranties to cover the claim, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced or negative gross margins, harm to our reputation if we are unable to provide remedies to our customers and general harm to our competitive position in the marketplace. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign products that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. A third party has notified us of its intention to assert a claim for indemnification under an agreement we have with that party. Under the agreement, we may be required to obtain a license to certain patented technologies at our expense and for the benefit of the third party. If the third party is sued for patent infringement, we may be required to defend the third party at our expense. In either case, we may incur costs that may impair our financial forecasts and competitive position. We have also been asked to obtain a license from a third party in connection with that party’s portfolio of patents directed to wireless data communication technologies. If we fail to purchase this license, we may be sued for patent infringement. If we cannot negotiate favorable terms for the license, our financial position may be harmed. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products under our brand name, Axesstel. We use our brand name to compete in the fixed wireless telecommunications market. We have expended significant resources promoting our brand name, and we have three registered trademarks in the United States. However, registration of our brand name trademark will not necessarily deter or prevent unauthorized use by others. If other companies, including our competitors, use our brand name, consumers may not recognize us as the source of our products. This would reduce the value of goodwill associated with our brand name. This consumer confusion and the resulting reduction in goodwill could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. If we identify an infringement of our brand or trademarks asserting a claim may be costly and time consuming. We may face litigation that could significantly damage our business and financial condition. In the telecommunications equipment industry, litigation increasingly has been used as a competitive tactic by both established companies seeking to protect their position in the market and by emerging companies attempting to gain access to the market. In this type of litigation, complaints may be filed on various grounds, 23 Table of Contents such as antitrust, breach of contract, trade secret, copyright or patent infringement, patent or copyright invalidity, and unfair business practices. If we are required to defend ourselves against one or more of these claims, whether or not they have any merit, we are likely to incur substantial expense and management’s attention will be diverted from operations. This type of litigation also may cause confusion in the market and make our licensees and distributors reluctant to commit resources to our products. Any of these effects could harm our business and result in a decline in the value of your investment in our stock. We are subject to increased costs as a result of newly adopted accounting and SEC regulations. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management will be required by the end of 2007 to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, and beginning in fiscal 2008 we will be required to have our independent auditor attest to that evaluation in connection with their annual audit. Compliance with these requirements is expected to be expensive and time consuming. If we fail to timely complete this evaluation, or if our independent auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In designing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we recognize that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. No system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness and any material failure of internal controls over financial reporting could materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. In addition, adverse publicity related to a material failure of internal controls over financial reporting would have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Our Founder beneficially owns approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock, ComVentures beneficially owns approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock, and Stephens Investment Management beneficially owns approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock; and each will be able to exert substantial influence over us and our major corporate decisions. As of December 31, 2006, Mike H.P. Kwon, our Founder, Honorary Chairman and member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock, ComVentures beneficially owned approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock, and Stephens Investment Management beneficially owned approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of their respective ownership interests, Mr. Kwon, ComVentures, and Stephens Investment Management each will have substantial influence over who is elected to our board of directors each year as well as whether we enter into any significant corporate transaction that requires stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impede the growth of our company. Nevada law and provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent a potential takeover bid that would be beneficial to common stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that enable our board of directors to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • Our board of directors may fill vacancies on the board of directors; • Our stockholders are permitted to remove members of our board of directors only upon the vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at a meeting called for such purpose; 24 Table of Contents • stockholder proposals and nominations for directors to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures, which require that all such proposals and nominations must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; • a staggered board; • a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our Chief Executive Officer, president or secretary, or by resolution of our board of directors; and • Our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. In addition, provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes provide that a person acquiring a controlling interest in an issuing corporation, and those acting in association with such person, obtain only such voting rights in the control shares as are conferred by stockholders (excluding such acquiring and associated persons) holding a majority of the voting power of the issuing corporation. For purposes of these provisions, “issuing corporation” means a corporation organized in Nevada which has 200 or more stockholders of record, at least 100 of whom have addresses in Nevada on the corporation’s stock ledger, and does business in Nevada directly or through an affiliate, and “controlling interest” means the ownership of outstanding voting shares enabling the acquiring person to exercise (either directly or in association with others) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more of the voting power of the issuing corporation in the election of directors. Accordingly, the provisions could require multiple votes with respect to voting rights in share acquisitions effected in separate stages, and the effect of these provisions may be to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 