ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our intended operating results is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the ones identified below, and additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. 9 Table of Contents If we cannot sustain profitable operations, we will need to raise additional capital to continue our operations, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and which may dilute your investment. We generated net income of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. However, we incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2010, of $6.3 million and a net loss of $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2011, we had a stockholders’ deficit of $11.6 million and a working capital deficit of $11.8 million. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in sustaining profitability and improving our working capital position over time. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to pay our expenses and our existing sources of cash and cash flows are otherwise insufficient to fund our activities, we will need to raise additional funds to continue our operations. We do not have any arrangements in place to provide additional funds. If needed, those funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we are unsuccessful in sustaining profitability and reducing our accumulated deficit, and we cannot obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or cease our operations. We rely on a small number of customers for substantially all of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers would seriously harm our business. For the year ended December 31, 2011, four of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 76% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised approximately 27%, 20%, 19% and 10% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2010, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 77% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised approximately 43%, 17% and 17% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 58% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised approximately 30%, 18% and 10% of revenues, respectively. If we lose one or more of our significant customers or if one or more of our significant customers materially scales back its orders, and we are unable to replace the sales of our products to other customers, our revenues may decline significantly and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We are attempting to develop other geographic markets for our products and services, including other regions in North America, Latin America, Europe and MEA, while still maintaining and expanding our volume of sales to our existing significant customers. Our goal is to develop additional significant customers from which we can generate additional revenues, and reduce our risk associated with customer concentration. We can make no assurance, however, that we will succeed in diversifying our customer base, developing other geographic markets or in becoming less reliant on a small number of significant customers. We purchase products from our manufacturers on a purchase order basis and they are not obligated to accept any purchase order on the terms we request or at all. We currently purchase all of our products from third party manufacturers on a purchase order basis. The manufacturers are not obligated to accept any purchase order that we submit, and may elect not to supply products to us on the terms we request, including terms related to open credit terms, specific quantities, pricing or timing of deliveries. If a manufacturer were to refuse to fulfill our purchase orders on terms that we request or on terms that would enable us to recover our expenses and make a profit, we may lose sales or experience reduced margins, either of which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if a manufacturer were to cease manufacturing our products on acceptable terms, we might not be able to identify and secure the services of a new third-party manufacturer in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. 10 Table of Contents If we do not compete effectively in the fixed wireless telecommunications market, our revenues and market share will decline. The markets for fixed wireless voice and broadband access devices are highly competitive. We face competition from larger and better capitalized competitors such as Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and ZTE Corporation which have significantly greater penetration in key markets than we do. Economies of scale allow these competitors to offer product pricing and related incentives that we may be unable to match. We also face competition from a number of smaller competitors. These competitors may be able to: • more accurately predict the new or emerging technologies desired by the market; • respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies; • respond more rapidly than we can to changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources than we do to sales or research and development efforts; • offer vendor financing for their products; • promote their products more effectively, including selling their products at a loss in order to obtain market share or bundling their products with other products that we do not offer in order to promote an end-to-end solution for their customers that we cannot match; • sell products at lower prices as a result of efficiencies of scale or purchasing power, thereby rendering our products non-competitive or forcing us to sell our products at reduced gross margins; and • use dominance in certain key markets to subsidize expansion efforts in geographic areas in which we operate and in which we are substantially dependent for a significant portion of our revenue. If we are not successful in continuing to win competitive bids, in enhancing our products and customer relationships and in managing our cost structure so that we can provide competitive prices, we may experience reduced sales and our market share may decline. The global economic slowdown has impacted demand for our products and intensified competition for sales of wireless products, and a protracted recession could impose additional risks to our business. Prior to 2009 we sold a significant portion of our products to telecommunications operators in developing countries in conjunction with network rollouts to new territories and upgrades to network infrastructure. The recent economic recession has impacted consumer demand as well as the ability of the telecommunications operators to finance network expansions and upgrades. A substantial portion of our sales are derived from customers in developing countries, including customers located in Eastern Europe and MEA. If the current economic climate persists, or worsens, then we may experience a decline in customer orders. A protracted economic slowdown may also impact the ability of our customers to provide credit security for their orders. We rely on that credit security, usually in the form of credit insurance or a letter of credit, to immediately finance the account receivable from the customer. We then use the proceeds from the account receivable financing to pay our contract manufacturers within the terms of their open credit policy. If our customers are unable to secure credit insurance or a letter of credit to secure their account with us, we may be unable to fill purchase orders submitted to us and our sales and results of operations may decline. The global economic climate has also intensified price competition in the fixed wireless space. Consumers and telecommunications operators, particularly in developing markets, are increasingly focused on price in their buying decision. The declining customer demand has triggered intense price competition as Chinese competitors have taken advantage of scale to establish significant market penetration, particularly in Asia and Latin America. 11 Table of Contents Because of our relative size, we do not expect to be the low cost provider for our wireless products. We compete on the basis of our attention to customer needs and product quality and performance. However, if the economic environment were to deteriorate, customers may be drawn to the lowest cost alternative and demand for our products may decline. If we cannot extend or renew our current bank term loan, we may default on repayment or be compelled to allocate significant cash resources to repayment which would further impair our working capital position. We have a $1.6 million term loan outstanding to a commercial bank located in China. That loan matures by its terms on April 1, 2012. We intend to seek a renewal or replacement of that loan, but do not have definitive arrangements in place at this time. Since 2008, we have operated with limited capital resources and a significant working capital deficit. If we are unable to renew this loan, we may not have the financial resources to repay the loan when it is due and may be compelled to default. Even if we are able to repay the loan, repayment would require allocation of a substantial portion of our working capital. Any such expenditure may impair our ability to execute our current business plan, and require us to curtail or alter our operating plans. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may be required to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $850,000 and a working capital deficit of $11.8 million. We generated net income of $1.1 million in 2011, but incurred substantial losses in 2010 and 2009. As a result, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds from our operating or financing activities to support our continued operations. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may need to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations, which may reduce or negate the value of your investment. Our international sales and operations subject us to various risks associated with, among other things, foreign laws, policies, economies and exchange rate fluctuations. All of our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These risks include: • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing countries, where a significant portion of our customers are located; • difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements applicable to our operations and products; • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including work stoppages or strikes and cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian bird flu. 12 Table of Contents These international risks make our ability to meet the demand for wireless products unpredictable. In addition, because the majority of our sales are denominated in United States dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect the market price for our products in countries in which they are sold. If the currency of a particular country weakens against the United States dollar, the cost of our products in that country may increase to the service provider and end user, which may result in the service provider or end user choosing to purchase the products of one of our competitors instead of our products. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We believe that our operating results may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed below as well as others listed in this “Risk Factors” section: • Our current reliance on large-volume orders from only a few customers. • The propensity of our customers to order on a purchase order basis. • Variability in customer and product mix during any particular quarter. • Changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors. • The introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors. • Changes in the terms of our arrangements with customers or suppliers. • The ability of our customers to accurately forecast demand for our products by their end users. • General economic conditions in developing countries which are in our target markets. • The timing of final product approvals from any major customer. • Delays or failures to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis. • The ability of our customers to obtain letters of credit or credit that are satisfactory to us and our ability to confirm them in a timely manner. • Our inability to forecast our manufacturing needs. • Delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products by us or market acceptance of these products. • Our ability to finance our working capital needs. • Changes in the financial position of our manufacturers. • The availability and cost of raw materials and components for our products. • An increase in product warranty returns or in our allowance for doubtful accounts. • Operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failures of our order processing system. Our results for any particular quarter or year may be positively or negatively impacted by the timing or occurrence of any of these events. Consequently, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a meaningful indication of the condition or trend of our business, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Because our business is subject to variability, at any point in time our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In this event, our stock price could decline significantly. We sell our product to telecommunications operators in developing countries, which may create difficulties in the collection of our accounts receivable. We customarily accept customer orders based on prepayment terms or require security in the form of letters of credit or credit insurance. In some instances, we make sales to customers on open credit terms. We have experienced some collection issues in the past. In 2010 and 2009 we incurred $1.0 million and $1.6 million of 13 Table of Contents bad debt expense, respectively, because of our customers’ inability or refusal to pay. Many of our customers are telecommunications operators in developing countries. This makes collection efforts more difficult and expensive. Often these countries do not have well established legal systems to secure and enforce judgments for unpaid accounts. Because of our limited working capital, any inability to collect on open accounts may have a significant impact on our financial position. We depend on third party manufacturers to produce all of our products. We rely on a limited number of third-party manufacturers to produce our products. Our reliance on third party manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks that are beyond our control, including: • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs; • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner; • interruptions in shipments for an extended period of time due to acts of God, war, terrorism, earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, damaging winds or floods or a recurrence of widespread pandemic; • interruptions in manufacturing and shipments for an extended period of time due to, among other reasons, shortages of electricity or water; • inability to control quality of finished products, or control the remediation of any product defects; • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers; • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; • inability to secure adequate volumes of components in a timely fashion or at expected prices; • unwillingness of our current or future manufacturing suppliers to provide sufficient credit to support our sales; • manufacturing delays due to lack of financing, availability of parts, labor stoppages, disruptions or political instability in the region; and • scarcity of shipping containers. In addition, we are subject to risks affecting the business of our contract manufacturers and their ability to produce our products in sufficient volume and quality on a timely basis. Such risks include delays in manufacturing process, disruptions in its workforce or manufacturing capabilities, capacity constraints, quality control problems and compliance with import and export restrictions of the United States and foreign countries. In addition, if demand for any of our products increases, these manufacturers could need to make additional capital expenditures in order to expand capacity, which they may choose not to do. Any of these risks could result in a delay of quality products being shipped to our customers, which could negatively impact our revenues, our reputation and our competitive position in our industry. As we work with new manufacturing partners, we may experience higher levels of product warranty claims, or defect rates which could negatively impact our financial position or impair our brand’s reputation for quality. We may not be able to respond to customer demands as quickly as we have through our internal research and development resources. Working with third party designers and manufacturers may limit our ability to develop unique or protected intellectual property rights in the products. Finally, we will be dependent on the financial stability and effective operations of our design and manufacturing partners. A financial or operational setback with one of our manufacturers may impact our ability to procure product necessary to meet customer orders or to service customer requests. If we do not choose our design and manufacturing partners carefully we may experience significant damages to our operations, our reputation and ultimately our financial position. 14 Table of Contents We may experience delays in manufacturing and our costs may increase if we are unable to accurately forecast all of our needs. We utilize a rolling forecast of demand, which our manufacturers use to determine our component requirements. Lead times for ordering components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for and availability of a component at a given time. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, the third-party manufacturer may not be able to manufacture products in a timely manner. If we cannot acquire our products in a timely manner, we may lose sales. If our forecasts are too high, we and our manufacturer may build excess inventory. In addition, we may be unable to use the components that were purchased based on our forecasts. The cost of the components tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and technologies mature. Therefore, if our manufacturers are unable to use components purchased based on our forecasts, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher priced components. Excess components or inventory will tie up working capital and cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs, which may cause us to borrow additional funds that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Further, excess components or inventory not used or sold in a timely manner may become obsolete causing write-offs or write-downs, which could seriously harm our results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales are on a purchase order basis. Although these purchase orders are generally not cancelable, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our customers generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, we generally carry little backlog and have limited visibility into the long term purchasing plans of our customers. Orders covered by firm purchase orders are generally not cancelable; however, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders. In the event that we experience any delays or cancellations, we may have difficulty enforcing the provisions of the purchase order and our revenues could decline substantially. Any such decline could result in us incurring net losses, increasing our accumulated deficit and needing to raise additional capital to fund our operations. We will need to develop new products and features to meet rapidly evolving industry standards and the changing needs of our customers in order to be successful. The wireless telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Manufacturers of wireless communications microprocessor chipsets, which we use in our products, frequently introduce new chipsets that provide enhanced functionality at lower price points. The introduction of new chipsets often requires that we design and release new products to take advantage of the enhanced features or lower cost in order to remain competitive. To maintain and increase our revenues, we must continually develop and market new products and enhancements to existing products that keep pace with advancing technological developments and industry standards and that address the needs of our customers and their end users. The process of developing new technology and products is complex, uncertain and expensive, and success depends on a number of factors, including: • predicting market acceptance of new technology platforms; • proper product definition; • managing supply chains and component costs; • resolving technical hurdles and obtaining appropriate product certifications as required by our customers; • timely completion and introduction to the market; • differentiation from the products of our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. 15 Table of Contents We commit significant resources for research and development of new products, in many instances, before knowing whether our investments will result in products the fixed wireless telecommunications market will accept. Further, we may be required to purchase licenses from third parties in connection with the development of new products and these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully introduce new products and technologies, our products may not be accepted by the market or we may be unable to sell our products at prices that are sufficient to recover our investment in developing those new products. Many of the end users in our target markets have low incomes and rely on subsidies from telecommunications operators in order to purchase our products. If we fail to introduce new products at prices that are competitive and allow us to generate a profit, we will lose customers and market share and the value of our company will decline. Our failure to predict and comply with evolving wireless industry standards, including 3G and 4G standards, could reduce our ability to introduce and sell new products. We must accurately anticipate evolving wireless technology standards and offer products that comply with such standards. We engineer and manufacture products that comply with several different 3G wireless standards and we released a 4G product line in late 2011. If our products fail to comply with any one of these or future applicable standards, our ability to introduce and sell new products could be reduced or we could be required to make costly and time-consuming engineering changes. Additionally, wireless standards for communication are evolving rapidly. If we develop products for a new wireless standard and a significant number of wireless operators do not adopt the standard to which our products are engineered, then sales of such new products could be materially harmed. From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions which, if consummated, may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, and may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. We will, from time to time, consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could be diluted. Evaluating potential acquisitions can be expensive and require significant management resources without significant return unless the acquisitions are completed successfully. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • failure to adequately integrate operations or obtain anticipated operative efficiencies; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the rules and regulations related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. 16 Table of Contents We depend on third party agents to provide sales and after-market support for our products in some markets, and the loss of these relationships may harm our business. We sell products to our customers through our direct sales force with significant involvement from senior management and, when desirable or required by the laws of a particular jurisdiction or a prospective customer, through local agents and a network of other third parties, such as resellers, distributors and manufacturers of complementary technologies. We rely on these agents and third parties to assist us in providing customer contacts and marketing our products directly to potential customers. When working with agents, we may enter into exclusive arrangements that preclude us from using another agent or making sales directly in a particular territory, which could harm our ability to develop new customer relationships. Certain agents and other third parties are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time. Our ability to increase our revenues in the future may depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with these agents, distributors and other third parties. Any failure to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties and any failure of these third parties to effectively market our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We have a small employee base and depend substantially on our current executive officers and management. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineering, sales, and marketing personnel, could delay product development and harm our ability to sell our products. Our success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified management, engineering, sales, and marketing personnel. Our competitive position could be seriously damaged and we may incur substantial expenses if we become party to lawsuits alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies, including our competitors, may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products. The technology around wireless communications is complex and numerous operating companies and patent “trolls” claim to hold essential intellectual property rights in the space. Our products may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, and if we are unable to license the infringed technology or our current licenses do not contain adequate indemnification or warranties to cover the claim, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced or negative gross margins, harm to our reputation if we are unable to provide remedies to our customers and general harm to our competitive position in the marketplace. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign products that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. 17 Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell certain of our products under our brand name, Axesstel. We use our brand name to compete in the fixed wireless telecommunications market. We have expended significant resources promoting our brand name, and we have three registered trademarks in the United States and have applied for and received a number of trademarks in developing countries where we sell our products. However, registration of our brand name trademark will not necessarily deter or prevent unauthorized use by others. If other companies use our brand name, consumers may not recognize us as the source of our products. This would reduce the value of goodwill associated with our brand name. This consumer confusion and the resulting reduction in goodwill could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. Even if we identify an infringement of our brand or trademarks, asserting a claim may be costly and time consuming. We may face litigation that could significantly damage our business and financial condition. In the telecommunications equipment industry, litigation is being used increasingly as a competitive tactic by both established companies seeking to protect their position in the market and by emerging companies attempting to gain access to the market. In this type of litigation, complaints may be filed on various grounds, such as antitrust, breach of contract, trade secret, copyright or patent infringement, patent or copyright invalidity, and unfair business practices. If we are required to defend ourselves against one or more of these claims, whether or not they have any merit, we are likely to incur substantial expense and management’s attention will be diverted from operations. This type of litigation also may cause confusion in the market and make our customers reluctant to purchase our products. Any of these effects could harm our business. We may not be able to develop products that comply with applicable government regulations. Our products must comply with government regulations. For example, in the United States, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, regulates many aspects of communications devices, including radiation of electromagnetic energy, biological safety, and rules for devices to be connected to telephone networks. In addition to the federal government regulations, certain states have adopted regulations applicable to our products. Radio frequency devices, which include our modems, must be approved under the above regulations by obtaining equipment authorization from the FCC prior to being offered for sale. Because we sell our products worldwide we must also meet the regulatory requirements in our global markets including Europe, MEA, Latin America and Asia. Additionally, we cannot anticipate the effect that changes in domestic or foreign government regulations may have on our ability to develop and sell products in the future. Failure to comply with existing or evolving government regulations or to obtain timely regulatory approvals or certificates for our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC QB over the counter market, which may be detrimental to investors. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC QB over the counter market. Stocks quoted on the OTC QB generally have limited trading volume and exhibit a wider spread between the bid and ask quotations as compared to stocks traded on national exchanges. Accordingly, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our stock is not active. Our common stock is subject to penny stock rules. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser. 18 Table of Contents Nevada law and provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent a potential takeover bid that would be beneficial to common stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that enable our board of directors to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • our directors may fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our stockholders are permitted to remove members of our board of directors only upon the vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at a meeting called for such purpose; • stockholder proposals and nominations for directors to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures, which require that all such proposals and nominations must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; • a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our chief executive officer, president or secretary, or by resolution of our board of directors; and • our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. In addition, provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes provide that a person acquiring a controlling interest in an issuing corporation, and those acting in association with such person, obtain only such voting rights in the control shares as are conferred by stockholders (excluding such acquiring and associated persons) holding a majority of the voting power of the issuing corporation. For purposes of these provisions, “issuing corporation” means a corporation organized in Nevada which has 200 or more stockholders of record, at least 100 of whom have addresses in Nevada on the corporation’s stock ledger, and does business in Nevada directly or through an affiliate, and “controlling interest” means the ownership of outstanding voting shares enabling the acquiring person to exercise (either directly or in association with others) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more of the voting power of the issuing corporation in the election of directors. Accordingly, the provisions could require multiple votes with respect to voting rights in share acquisitions effected in separate stages, and the effect of these provisions may be to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 