ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in the Company’s common stock involves various risks which are particular to the Company, its industry and its market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in the Company’s common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, the Company may not be able to conduct its business as currently planned and its financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline in future periods. The Company may be unable to consummate its proposed merger with Greene County. The Company’s proposed merger with Greene County, described in more detail above, is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2007 but must be approved by both the Company’s and Greene County’s shareholders before it can be finalized. Consummation of this merger is also subject to the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. If the merger is not completed for any reason, the Company’s stock price may decline because certain costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and a portion of financial advisory fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the merger is not completed, the Company’s stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects the assumption by investors that the merger will be completed. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s net interest income and impact funding sources. The results of operations of banking institutions generally, and of the bank subsidiary specifically, are materially affected by general economic conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities as well as other factors that affect market rates of interest. The Company’s profitability is significantly dependent on “net interest income,” which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, like loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, like deposits and borrowings. Thus, any change in general market interest rates, whether as a result of changes in monetary policies of the Federal Reserve or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the Company’s funding costs and net interest income and, consequently, the Company’s earnings per share. At the same time, changes in interest rates could compress the Company’s net interest margin, which could negatively impact its earnings growth and earnings per share. Although the Company’s bank subsidiary actively manages its exposure to interest rate changes, these changes are beyond their control and the bank subsidiary cannot fully insulate itself from the effect of rate changes. As interest rates change, the Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, this “gap” may work against the Company, and its earnings may be negatively affected. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect the Company’s ability to originate real estate loans, the value of its assets and its ability to realize gains from the sale of its assets, all of which ultimately affect the Company’s earnings. A decline in the market value of the Company’s assets may limit its ability to borrow additional funds or result in its lenders requiring additional collateral from it under its loan agreements. As a result, the Company could be required to sell some of its loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to it, in order to maintain its liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, the Company will incur losses. The Company has relatively high amounts of real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans or a more diversified loan portfolio. Construction and development lending is a more significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio than is typical for banks and bank holding companies in its area. The percentage of construction and development loans in the bank’s 11 Table of Contents portfolio was approximately 44.1% of its total loans as of December 31, 2006. This type of lending is generally considered to have higher credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. If the bank experiences significant construction loan loss because the cost and value of construction loan projects was inaccurately estimated or because of a general economic downturn, the Company could experience earnings losses which would reduce its net tangible book value. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. A number of regional banking institutions in the Nashville metropolitan market have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage, although many of the Company’s customers have selected the Company because of service quality concerns at the larger enterprises. The competition may limit or reduce the Company’s profitability, reduce its growth, and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The amount of common stock owned by the Company’s officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers they oppose. As of December 31, 2006, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 24.8% of the Company’s common stock. The common stock and option ownership of the Company’s board and management could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals of the Company that its directors and officers oppose. The Company’s key management personnel may leave at any time. The Company’s future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of its key management personnel, especially Richard Herrington, its president and chief executive officer, and its bank subsidiary president, Danny Herron. The Company does not have employment agreements with any of its personnel, however, members of senior management, are awarded equity incentives which would be forfeited, to the extent not vested, upon termination. The Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to retain any of its key officers and employees or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The Company, as well as its bank subsidiary, operate in a highly regulated environment and are supervised and examined by various federal and state regulatory agencies who may adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct business. The TDFI and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System supervise and examine the bank subsidiary. Because the bank is federally insured up to applicable legal limits, the FDIC also regulates the bank. The Federal Reserve also regulates the Company, as a bank holding company. These and other regulatory agencies impose certain regulations and restrictions on the bank subsidiary, including: • meeting explicit standards as to capital and financial condition; • limitations on the permissible types, amounts and extensions of credit and investments; • restrictions on permissible non-banking activities; and • restrictions on dividend payments. Federal and State regulatory agencies have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. As a result, the Company must expend significant time and expense to assure that it is in compliance with regulatory requirements and agency practices. The Company, as well as the bank, undergoes periodic examinations by one or more regulatory agencies. Following such examinations, the Company may be required, among other things, to make additional provisions to its allowance for loan loss or to restrict its operations. These actions would result from the regulators’ judgments based on information 12 Table of Contents available to them at the time of their examination. The bank’s operations are also governed by a wide variety of state and federal consumer protection laws and regulations. These federal and state regulatory restrictions limit the manner in which the Company, and the bank, may conduct business and obtain financing. These laws and regulations can and do change significantly from time to time and any such change could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company risks losing customers because it competes with often larger, more comprehensive financial service institutions for customer lending and investment business in the markets it serves. The banking and financial services business is highly competitive, especially in Williamson and Sumner Counties, Tennessee generally, and in the bank’s market areas specifically. The bank competes for loans, deposits and customers and the delivery of other financial services with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market funds, credit unions, and other non-bank financial service providers. Many of these competitors have much greater total assets and capitalization than does the Company. These larger institutions have higher lending limits, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services, such as trust services and international banking services, than the bank. The Company is geographically concentrated in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and changes in local economic conditions impact its profitability. The Company operates primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and substantially all of its loan customers and most of its deposit and other customers live or have operations in the Nashville MSA. Accordingly, the Company’s success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the Nashville MSA, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the area. The Company’s profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in this market. Additionally, unfavorable local or national economic conditions could reduce the Company’s growth rate, affect the ability of the Company’s customers to repay their loans to the Company and generally affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that it will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in its primary market areas if they do occur. The Company’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market and, as such, has less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on national stock exchanges or other markets. The Company cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of its common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s future ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 13 Table of Contents Holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s common shareholders. The Company has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $17 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by the Company. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures the Company issued to the trusts are senior to the Company’s shares of common stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on the Company’s common stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 