ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our intended operating results is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the ones identified below, and additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. 10 Table of Contents If we cannot return to and sustain profitable operations, we will need to raise additional capital to continue our operations, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and which may dilute your investment. We incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $6.3 million and a net loss of $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Although we had net income of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred significant losses in prior years including a net loss of $9.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and a net loss of $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2010, we had a stockholders’ deficit of $12.8 million and a working capital deficit of $13.1 million. Achieving and sustaining profitability will require us to increase our revenues, reduce our manufacturing costs and manage our operating and administrative expenses. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in achieving profitability and improving our working capital position. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to pay our expenses and our existing sources of cash and cash flows are otherwise insufficient to fund our activities, we will need to raise additional funds to continue our operations. We do not have any arrangements in place for additional funds. If needed, those funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we are unsuccessful in achieving profitability and reducing our accumulated deficit, and we cannot obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or cease our operations, which could result in the loss of all of your investment in our stock. If we cannot extend or renew our current bank term loan, we may default on repayment or be compelled to allocate significant cash resources to repayment which would further impair our working capital position. We have a $1.5 million term loan outstanding to a commercial bank located in China. That loan matures by its terms on April 8, 2011. We are currently negotiating a renewal of that loan, but do not have definitive arrangements in place at this time. Since 2008 we have operated with limited capital resources and a significant working capital deficit. If we are unable to renew this loan, we may not have the financial resources to repay the loan when it is due and may be compelled to default. Even if we are able to repay the loan, repayment would require allocation of a substantial portion of our working capital. Any such expenditure may impair our ability to execute our current business plan, and require us to curtail or alter our operating plans. We purchase products from our manufacturers on a purchase order basis and they are not obligated to accept any purchase order on the terms we request or at all. We currently purchase all of our products from third party manufacturers on a purchase order basis. The manufacturers are not obligated to accept any purchase order that we submit, and may elect not to supply products to us on the terms we request, including terms related to open credit terms, specific quantities, pricing or timing of deliveries. If a manufacturer were to refuse to fulfill our purchase orders on terms that we request or on terms that would enable us to recover our expenses and make a profit, we may lose sales or experience reduced margins, either of which would adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if a manufacturer were to cease manufacturing our products on acceptable terms, we might not be able to identify and secure the services of a new third-party manufacturer in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. During 2009 and continuing into 2010, we fell behind in payments to our principal contract manufacturer. We entered into a security agreement and standstill agreements pursuant to which the contract manufacturer agreed to continue manufacturing product after granting them a subordinated security interest in the receivables arising from the products that they sell to us, and our agreement to meet certain payment milestones to bring our account within current terms. To date, we have not met all of the payment milestones to them. We have entered into a 11 Table of Contents subsequent agreement with our principal contract manufacturer where they have agreed to continue to ship product to use despite the “past due” status of our account, provided that we continue to make specified payments against our outstanding balance. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Terms with Manufacturers” below. If we fail to make timely payments to our contract manufacturers, they may elect to suspend shipments or refuse our purchase orders, disrupting our ability to supply product to our customers. We rely on a small number of large customers for substantially all of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers would seriously harm our business. For the year ended December 31, 2010, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 77% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised approximately 43%, 17% and 17% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, three of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 58% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised approximately 30%, 18% and 10% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, two of our customers and their affiliates accounted for approximately 48% of our revenues; orders from these customers comprised 31% and 17% of revenues, respectively. If we lose one or more of our significant customers or if one or more of our significant customers materially scales back its orders, and we are unable to replace the sales of our products to other customers, our revenues may decline significantly and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We are attempting to develop other geographic markets for our products and services, including other regions in the Americas and EMEA, while still maintaining and expanding our volume of sales to our existing significant customers. Our goal is to develop additional significant customers. We can make no assurance, however, that we will succeed in diversifying our customer base, developing other geographic markets or becoming less reliant on a small number of significant customers. Failure to diversify our customer base subjects us to more risk in the event that one or more of our significant customers stops or reduces it purchases of our products. The impact of the current economic climate and tight financing markets have impacted consumer demand for our products, our customer’s ability to finance new networks, and our ability to secure financing to support the manufacture and sale of our products. The global economic recession had a significant impact on customer demand for our products in 2009 and 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 our revenues were $45.4 million and $50.8 million, respectively, compared to $109.6 million for 2008. A substantial portion of our sales are derived from customers in developing countries. Weak consumer demand for our products in the Asia, EMEA and Latin America regions as compared to 2008 levels had a substantial negative impact on our revenues and profitability. The long term impact of the current economic climate and the tight financial markets on demand for our products is unclear. If consumer demand continues to be weak, we will continue to experience reduced sales. We have historically sold a significant portion of our products to network operators in conjunction with rollouts and upgrades to network infrastructure. If operators determine that consumer demand will not support, or that they are unable to finance, new network rollouts or product launches, sales of our products may decline. Because of our limited working capital, we rely on a combination of credit terms from our contract manufacturers and credit security from our customers and distributors to minimize our working capital requirements. We depend on open credit terms from our contract manufacturers to produce goods for sale to our customers. Any restrictive change in our credit terms with them could impact our ability to produce goods to meet customer orders. The current economic and financial crisis may also impact the ability of our customers to provide credit security for their orders. We rely on that credit security, usually in the form of credit insurance or a letter of credit, to 12 Table of Contents immediately finance the account receivable from the customer. We then use the proceeds from the account receivable financing to pay our contract manufacturers within the terms of their open credit policies. If, as a result of the current financial crisis or otherwise, our customers are unable to secure credit insurance or a letter of credit to secure their account with us, we may be unable to fill purchase orders submitted to us and our sales and results of operations may decline. We have recently transitioned our product development efforts to focus on collaborative design with third parties, and may face additional risks related to our reliance on third party designers and manufacturers. We began designing our own proprietary fixed wireless phones and other products in 2004. Since that time, we maintained a primary manufacturing relationship with a single contract manufacturer, who has manufactured phones, modems and gateways to our product specifications, which we review and customize to meet the requirements of our customers. Since late 2007, we have increasingly used third party design engineers and manufacturers to collaborate on our product development. These third parties develop and manufacture their own product designs. We review baseline products offered by these manufacturers and develop product specifications to improve the cost or performance of the product or to add features and functions to meet our customers’ unique requirements. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we sold our Korean subsidiary which performed much of our internal product design. We have retained our core product engineers, but are now more dependent on third party relationships to complete our comprehensive product design. While we believe that this product development model provides a number of advantages, dependence on these third party design and manufacturing partners imposes certain risks to our business. We may not have the internal resources necessary to unilaterally make product modifications, and will be dependent on cooperation from our design and manufacturing partners to effect changes to product design, features or functions. As we work with new manufacturing partners, we may experience higher levels of product warranty claims, or defect rates which could negatively impact our financial position or impair our brand’s reputation for quality. We may not be able to respond to customer demands as quickly as we have through our internal research and development resources. Working with third party designers and manufacturers may limit our ability to develop unique or protected intellectual property rights in the products. Finally, we will be dependent on the financial stability and effective operations of our design and manufacturing partners. A financial or operational setback with one of our manufacturers may impact our ability to procure product necessary to meet customer orders or to service customer requests. If we do not choose our design and manufacturing partners carefully, we may experience significant damages to our operations, our reputation and ultimately our financial position. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may be required to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77,000 and a working capital deficit of $13.1 million. We incurred a net loss of $6.3 million in 2010, and have incurred net losses in four out of the past five years of operation. As a result, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds from our operating or financing activities to support our continued operations. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may need to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations, which may reduce or negate the value of your investment. Our international sales and operations subject us to various risks associated with, among other things, foreign laws, policies, economies and exchange rate fluctuations. All of our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These risks include: • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; 13 Table of Contents • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing countries, where substantially all of our customers are located; • difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements applicable to our operations and products; • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including work stoppages or strikes and cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian bird flu. These international risks make our ability to meet the demand for wireless products unpredictable. In addition, because the majority of our sales are denominated in United States dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect the market price for our products in countries in which they are sold. If the currency of a particular country weakens against the United States dollar, the cost of our products in that country may increase to the service provider and end user, which may result in the service provider or end user choosing to purchase the products of one of our competitors instead of our products. We depend on our distributor relationships to provide letters of credit to support our sales of products to customers in Venezuela, which accounted for 17% of our revenues in 2010. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, sales to telecommunications service providers in Venezuela accounted for 17%, 18% and 41% of our revenues, respectively. In 2007, the government in Venezuela nationalized the telephone system. While we continued to receive orders for products, we experienced substantial delays in payments from our Venezuelan customers in 2007. In early 2008, we entered into a distributor agreement pursuant to which we directed sales orders from Venezuelan customers through a distributor. The distributor takes the purchase order from the customer and issues a purchase order to us at a discount from the purchase price for the end customer. Under the terms of the distributor agreement, the distributor secures its payment obligation to us with a letter of credit which we can finance immediately, eliminating delays in cash flow as well as collection risk. Under our principal distributor arrangement, the distributor may, in its discretion, reject any particular purchase order, change the pricing discount at which it is willing to purchase our products, or terminate the distributor relationship at any time. If our distributor refuses to accept a purchase order, we can accept the order directly from our customer or arrange for another distributor to accept the purchase order. If we cannot identify another distributor, or find another option to finance the account receivable, we do not presently have the working capital necessary to fulfill any substantial level of business on open terms. Consequently, if our distributor was to modify the terms upon which they distribute our products, we may have to substantially reduce the level of business we perform, or reduce our gross margins. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We believe that our operating results may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed below as well as others listed in this “Risk Factors” section: • our current reliance on large-volume orders from only a few customers; 14 Table of Contents • the propensity of our customers to order on a purchase order basis; • variability between customer and product mix; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in the terms of our arrangements with customers or suppliers; • ability of our customers to accurately forecast demand for our products by their end users; • general economic conditions in developing countries which are in our target markets; • the timing of final product approvals from any major customer; • delays or failures to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; • the ability of our customers to obtain letters of credit that are satisfactory to us and our ability to confirm them in a timely manner; • our inability to forecast our manufacturing needs; • delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products by us or market acceptance of these products; • our ability to finance our working capital needs; • change in the financial position of our manufacturers; • the availability and cost of raw materials and components for our products; • an increase in product warranty returns or in our allowance for doubtful accounts; and • operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failures of our order processing system. Our results for any particular quarter or year may be positively or negatively impacted by the timing or occurrence of any of these events. Consequently, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a meaningful indication of the condition or trend of our business, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Because our business is subject to variability, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In this event, our stock price could decline significantly. Our customers are primarily wireless telecom operators in developing countries, which may create difficulties in the collection of our accounts receivable. We customarily accept customer orders based on prepayment terms or letters of credit. This reduces our working capital requirements because we are able to quickly collect payment for the products that we deliver and pay our third-party manufacturers and vendors. In some instances, we make sales to customers on open credit terms. We have experienced some collection issues in the past. In 2010 and 2009 we incurred $1.3 million and $1.6 million of bad debt expense, respectively, because of our customers’ inability or refusal to pay. Most of our customers are wireless telecom operators in developing countries. This makes collection efforts more difficult and expensive. Often these countries do not have well established legal systems to secure and enforce judgments for unpaid accounts. Because of our limited working capital, any inability to collect on open accounts may have a significant impact on our financial position. We depend on third party manufacturers to produce all of our products. We currently depend on third party manufacturers to manufacture all of our products. As a result, we are subject to risks affecting their business. Such risks include delays in the manufacturing process, disruptions in their workforce or manufacturing capabilities, capacity constraints, quality control problems and compliance with 15 Table of Contents import and export restrictions of the United States and foreign countries. In addition, if our business grows, these manufacturers may need to make additional capital expenditures, which they may choose not to do. Any of these risks could result in a delay of quality products being shipped to our customers, which could negatively impact our revenues, our reputation and our competitive position in our industry. We expect to continue to rely primarily on a limited number of third-party manufacturers to produce our products. Our reliance on third party manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks that are beyond our control, including: • unexpected increases in manufacturing costs; • interruptions in shipments if a third-party manufacturer is unable to complete production in a timely manner; • interruptions in shipments for an extended period of time due to acts of God, war, terrorism, earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, damaging winds or floods or a recurrence of widespread pandemic; • interruptions in manufacturing and shipments for an extended period of time due to, among other reasons, shortages of electricity or water; • inability to control quality of finished products, or control the remediation of any product defects; • inability to control production levels and to meet minimum volume commitments to our customers; • inability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity; • inability to secure adequate volumes of components in a timely fashion or at expected prices; • unwillingness of our current or future manufacturing suppliers to provide sufficient credit to support our sales; • manufacturing delays due to lack of financing, availability of parts, labor stoppages, disruptions or political instability in the region; and • scarcity of shipping containers. We may experience delays in manufacturing and our costs may increase if we are unable to accurately forecast all of our needs. We utilize a rolling forecast of demand, which our manufacturers use to determine our component requirements. Lead times for ordering components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for and availability of a component at a given time. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, the third-party manufacturer may not be able to manufacture products in a timely manner. If we cannot acquire our products in a timely manner, we may lose sales. If our forecasts are too high, we and our manufacturer may build excess inventory. In addition, we may be unable to use the components that were purchased based on our forecasts. The cost of the components tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and technologies mature. Therefore, if our manufacturers are unable to use components purchased based on our forecasts, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher priced components. Excess components or inventory will tie up working capital and cause us to incur storage and other carrying costs, which may cause us to borrow additional funds that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Further, excess components or inventory not used or sold in a timely manner may become obsolete causing write-offs or write-downs, which could seriously harm our results of operations. A substantial portion of the products we sell are sold on a purchase order basis. Although these purchase orders are generally not cancelable, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders, which could negatively impact our revenues. At present, our customers generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, we generally carry little backlog and have limited visibility into the long term purchasing plans of our customers. 16 Table of Contents Orders covered by firm purchase orders are generally not cancelable; however, customers may decide to delay or cancel orders. In the event that we experience any delays or cancellations, we would have difficulty enforcing the provisions of the purchase order and our revenues could decline substantially. Any such decline could result in us incurring net losses, increasing our accumulated deficit and needing to raise additional capital to fund our operations. If we do not compete effectively in the fixed wireless telecommunications market, our revenues and market share will decline. The markets for fixed wireless voice and broadband access devices are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase. As we develop new products we anticipate increased competition from well funded competitors. These competitors may be able to: • more accurately predict the new or emerging technologies desired by the market; • respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies; • respond more rapidly than we can to changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources than we do to sales or research and development efforts; • offer vendor financing for their products; • promote their products more effectively, including selling their products at a loss in order to obtain market share or bundling their products with other products that we do not offer in order to promote an end-to-end solution for their customers that we cannot match; and • obtain components and manufacture and sell products at lower prices as a result of efficiencies of scale or purchasing power, thereby rendering our products non-competitive or forcing us to sell our products at reduced gross margins. If we are not successful in continuing to win competitive bids, in enhancing our products and customer relationships and in managing our cost structure so that we can provide competitive prices, we may experience reduced sales and our market share may decline. We may not be able to compete effectively against larger and better capitalized competitors. Larger and better capitalized competitors such as Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and ZTE Corporation have significantly greater penetration in key markets than we do. Economies of scale allow these competitors to offer product pricing and related incentives that we may be unable to match. Our target customers are large telecommunications service providers serving developing countries and regions where demand for basic telephone service has grown substantially in recent years. Our competitors may be better positioned to pursue opportunities in those developing countries. Dominance in certain key markets may serve to effectively “lock out” competitors, including us, and may allow these larger competitors to achieve and maintain higher profit margins in those markets than they could otherwise. These profit margins may allow these larger competitors to subsidize expansion efforts in geographic areas in which we operate and in which we are substantially dependent for a significant portion of our revenue. We will need to develop new products and features to meet rapidly evolving industry standards and the changing needs of our customers in order to be successful. The wireless telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Manufacturers of wireless communications microprocessor chipsets, which we use in our products, frequently introduce new chipsets that provide enhanced functionality at lower price points. The introduction of new chipsets often requires that we design and release new products to take advantage of the enhanced features or lower cost in 17 Table of Contents order to remain competitive. To maintain and increase our revenues, we must continually develop and market new products and enhancements to existing products that keep pace with advancing technological developments and industry standards and that address the needs of our customers and their end users. The process of developing new technology and products is complex, uncertain and expensive, and success depends on a number of factors, including: • predicting market acceptance of new technology platforms; • proper product definition; • managing supply chains and component costs; • resolving technical hurdles and obtaining appropriate product certifications as required by our customers; • timely completion and introduction to the market; • differentiation from the products of our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. Although our current outsourced product development model will reduce investment risks, we will continue to commit significant resources for research and development of new products, in many instances, before knowing whether our investments will result in products the fixed wireless telecommunications market will accept. Further, we may be required to purchase licenses from third parties in connection with the development of new products and these licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully introduce new products and technologies, our products may not be accepted by the market or we may be unable to sell our products at prices that are sufficient to recover our investment in developing those new products. Many of the end users in our target markets have low incomes and rely on subsidies from telecommunications service providers in order to purchase our products. If we fail to introduce new products at prices that are competitive and allow us to generate a profit, we will lose customers and market share and the value of our company will decline. From time to time we evaluate potential acquisitions which, if consummated, may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, and may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. We will, from time to time, consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could be diluted. Evaluating potential acquisitions can be expensive and require significant management resources without significant return unless the acquisitions are completed successfully. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • failure to adequately integrate operations or obtain anticipated operative efficiencies; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 18 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the rules and regulations related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. We may experience long sales cycles for our products. Our sales cycle depends, in part, on the length of time required for adoption of new technologies in our target markets. At times, orders for our products are tied to the rollout of new infrastructure by the telecommunications service providers, the precise timing of which is subject to financing, construction and other delays beyond our control. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and that customer’s decision to purchase our products is relatively long. The evaluation, testing, acceptance, proposal, contract negotiation, funding and implementation process can extend over many months. It generally takes us between three and six months to complete a sale to a customer; however in certain instances the sales cycle may be substantially longer. As a result, we may not be successful in forecasting with certainty the sales that we will make in a given period. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens in general or for one or more large orders, the timing of our revenues could be delayed and results of operations could be negatively impacted in any quarter. Therefore, quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenues may not necessarily be meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, sales cycles that are longer than we expect will likely harm our ability to generate sufficient cash to cover our working capital requirements for a given period. We must expand our customer base in order to grow our business. To grow our business, we must fulfill orders from our existing customers, obtain additional orders from our existing customers, develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill orders from new customers. The number of telecommunications service providers operating fixed wireless networks, and therefore the number of our prospective customers, is limited. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop relationships with additional telecommunications service providers and other customers and obtain purchase orders from those customers. Whether we will be able to obtain additional orders for our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • the market’s continued acceptance of fixed wireless products; • the growth in our target markets of wireless infrastructure; • whether any of our customers require us to grant exclusivity or impose other restrictions on our ability to market our products to other carriers in the same geographic region at competitive prices; • our ability to manufacture reliable products at competitive prices that have the features that are required by our customers and the end users of those products; and • our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to additional orders for our products. We depend on third party agents to provide sales and after market support for our products in some markets, and the loss of these relationships may harm our business. We sell products to our customers through our direct sales force with significant involvement from senior management and, when desirable or required by the laws of a particular jurisdiction or a prospective customer, through local agents and a network of other third parties, such as resellers, distributors and manufacturers of complementary technologies. We rely on these agents and third parties to assist us in providing customer 19 Table of Contents contacts and marketing our products directly to potential customers. When working with agents, we may enter into exclusive arrangements that preclude us from using another agent or making sales directly in a particular territory, which could harm our ability to develop new customer relationships. Certain agents and other third parties are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time. Our ability to increase our revenues in the future may depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with these agents, distributors and other third parties. Any failure to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties and any failure of these third parties to effectively market our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We have a small employee base and depend substantially on our current executive officers and management. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineering, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products, and damage the market’s perception of us. Our success also may depend on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Our competitive position could be seriously damaged and we may incur substantial expenses if we become party to lawsuits alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies, including our competitors, may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, our products may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, and if we are unable to license the infringed technology or our current licenses do not contain adequate indemnification or warranties to cover the claim, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, resulting in reduced or negative gross margins, harm to our reputation if we are unable to provide remedies to our customers and general harm to our competitive position in the marketplace. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • Cease selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. • Obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, although such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. • Redesign products that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. We sell our products under our brand name, Axesstel. We use our brand name to compete in the fixed wireless telecommunications market. We have expended significant resources promoting our brand name, and we have three registered trademarks in the United States and have applied for and received a number of trademarks in 20 Table of Contents developing countries where we sell our products. However, registration of our brand name trademark will not necessarily deter or prevent unauthorized use by others. If other companies use our brand name, consumers may not recognize us as the source of our products. This would reduce the value of goodwill associated with our brand name. This consumer confusion and the resulting reduction in goodwill could cause us to lose market share and cause our sales to decline. Even if we identify an infringement of our brand or trademarks, asserting a claim may be costly and time consuming. We may face litigation that could significantly damage our business and financial condition. In the telecommunications equipment industry, litigation is being used increasingly as a competitive tactic by both established companies seeking to protect their position in the market and by emerging companies attempting to gain access to the market. In this type of litigation, complaints may be filed on various grounds, such as antitrust, breach of contract, trade secret, copyright or patent infringement, patent or copyright invalidity, and unfair business practices. If we are required to defend ourselves against one or more of these claims, whether or not they have any merit, we are likely to incur substantial expense and management’s attention will be diverted from operations. This type of litigation also may cause confusion in the market and make our customers reluctant to purchase our products. Any of these effects could harm our business and result in a decline in the value of your investment in our stock. Our failure to predict and comply with evolving wireless industry standards, including 3G and 4G standards, could reduce our ability to introduce and sell new products. We must accurately anticipate evolving wireless technology standards and offer products that comply with such standards. We engineer and manufacture products that comply with several different 3G wireless standards and we anticipate releasing a 4G product line in 2011. If our products fail to comply with any one of these or future applicable standards, our ability to introduce and sell new products could be reduced or we could be required to make costly and time-consuming engineering changes. Additionally, if a significant number of wireless operators do not adopt the standards to which our products are engineered, then sales of such new products could be materially harmed. We may not be able to develop products that comply with applicable government regulations. Our products must comply with government regulations. For example, in the United States, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, regulates many aspects of communications devices, including radiation of electromagnetic energy, biological safety and rules for devices to be connected to telephone networks. In addition to the federal government regulations, certain states have adopted regulations applicable to our products. Radio frequency devices, which include our modems, must be approved under the above regulations by obtaining equipment authorization from the FCC prior to being offered for sale. Regulatory requirements in EMEA, Asia and Latin America must also be met. Additionally, we cannot anticipate the effect that changes in domestic or foreign government regulations may have on our ability to develop and sell products in the future. Failure to comply with existing or evolving government regulations or to obtain timely regulatory approvals or certificates for our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets, which may be detrimental to investors. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets. Stocks quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets generally have limited trading volume and exhibit a wider spread between the bid and ask quotations as compared to stocks traded on national exchanges. Accordingly, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our stock is not active. 21 Table of Contents Our common stock is subject to penny stock rules. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser. Nevada law and provisions in our charter documents may delay or prevent a potential takeover bid that would be beneficial to common stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that enable our board of directors to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • Our directors may fill vacancies on our board of directors. • Our stockholders are permitted to remove members of our board of directors only upon the vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at a meeting called for such purpose. • Stockholder proposals and nominations for directors to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures, which require that all such proposals and nominations must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year. • A special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our chief executive officer, president or secretary, or by resolution of our board of directors. • Our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. In addition, provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes provide that a person acquiring a controlling interest in an issuing corporation, and those acting in association with such person, obtain only such voting rights in the control shares as are conferred by stockholders (excluding such acquiring and associated persons) holding a majority of the voting power of the issuing corporation. For purposes of these provisions, “issuing corporation” means a corporation organized in Nevada which has 200 or more stockholders of record, at least 100 of whom have addresses in Nevada on the corporation’s stock ledger, and does business in Nevada directly or through an affiliate, and “controlling interest” means the ownership of outstanding voting shares enabling the acquiring person to exercise (either directly or in association with others) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more of the voting power of the issuing corporation in the election of directors. Accordingly, the provisions could require multiple votes with respect to voting rights in share acquisitions effected in separate stages, and the effect of these provisions may be to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 