Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Company Additional financing will be required to fund our international exploration and development activities beyond April 30, 2009. Additional financing will be required to fund our international exploration and development activities beyond April 30, 2009. We have little revenue. In 2008, we had net revenues of $111,000 from our U.S. discontinued operations. We have significant drilling commitments during the remainder of 2009, and our ability to achieve drilling and production success will depend upon obtaining significant capital. We have reached a tentative agreement with Dalea to amend the Dalea credit agreement to increase the loan facility by $14.0 million and to allow the use of funds for general corporate purposes. Such amendment is subject to regulatory approval. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or sell all or portions of our properties in the time required on terms acceptable to us or to secure partners for our projects. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds to continue our operations, our business will likely be materially and adversely impacted. We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses in prior years and at December 31, 2008, our total net loss and comprehensive loss was approximately $8.6 million and we used cash of $5.8 million in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2008. To become profitable, we must identify and establish reserves at our properties, and then either develop our properties or locate and enter into agreements with third party operators. We may suffer significant additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We expect to incur losses unless and until such time as one or more of our properties enters into commercial production and generates sufficient revenue to fund our continuing operations. We will require significant capital to continue our exploration and development activities. We have substantial capital requirements that we may be unable to finance on acceptable terms, or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future growth depends on our ability to make large capital expenditures for the exploration and development of natural gas and oil properties. Future cash flows and the availability of debt or equity financing will be subject to a number of variables, such as: • the success of our prospects in Romania, Morocco and Turkey; • success in finding and commercially producing reserves; and • prices of natural gas and oil. 6 Table of Contents Debt financing could lead to: • a substantial portion of operating cash flow being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest; • the Company being more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns; and • restrictions on our operations. We might not be able to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If sufficient capital resources are not available, we might be forced to curtail developmental and exploratory drilling and other activities or be forced to sell some assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no proven reserves and limited current production and may never have any reserves. We have no proven reserves and limited current production and may never have any reserves. The future performance of our business will depend upon our ability to identify, acquire and develop oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Success will depend upon the ability to acquire working and revenue interests in properties upon which oil and gas reserves are ultimately discovered in commercial quantities, and the ability to develop prospects that contain proven oil and gas reserves to the point of production. Without successful acquisition and exploration activities, we will not be able to develop oil and gas reserves or generate revenues. There are no assurances that oil and gas reserves will be identified or acquired on acceptable terms, or that oil and gas reserves will be discovered in sufficient quantities to enable us to recover our exploration and development costs or sustain our business. The successful acquisition and development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors. Such assessments are inherently uncertain. In addition, no assurance can be given that our exploration and development activities will result in the discovery of any reserves. Operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of lack of adequate capital and other factors, such as lack of availability of rigs and other equipment, title problems, weather, compliance with governmental regulations or price controls, mechanical difficulties, or unusual or unexpected formations, pressures and or work interruptions. In addition, the costs of exploration and development may materially exceed our initial estimates. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, beginning in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, such report will have to contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control over financial reporting. Due to the limited number of our staff, it is not possible to achieve complete segregation of duties, nor do we currently maintain written policies and procedures at our international offices. Further, we must engage accounting assistance with respect to complex, non-routine accounting issues, Canadian and U.S. GAAP matters, tax compliance, and reporting for our international operations. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention. As a result, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls in the future. The integration of Longe and Incremental into our operations may make it more difficult for us to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and required remediation, if any, in a timely fashion. Failure to have effective internal controls could lead to a misstatement of our financials. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our common shares could decrease. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Because of our continuing losses from operations and lack of working capital, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Because of our continuing losses from operations and lack of working capital, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This means that there is substantial doubt that we can continue as an ongoing business beyond April 2009 without raising additional funds. If we continue to sustain losses and lack sufficient capital, we may have to cease operations and our shareholders could lose their investment. If we discover reserves, a substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices may adversely affect our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. Our future revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are substantially dependent upon the prevailing prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil. Lower natural gas and oil prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically in the event we discover reserves. Historically, natural gas and oil prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. If we establish reserves, a decrease in natural gas or oil prices will not only reduce revenues and profits, but will also reduce the quantities of reserves that are commercially recoverable and may result in charges to earnings for impairment of the value of these assets. If natural gas or oil prices decline significantly for extended periods of time in the future, we might not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations and make planned capital expenditures. Natural gas and oil prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Among the factors that could cause fluctuations are: • change in local and global supply and demand for natural gas and oil; • levels of production and other activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other natural gas and oil producing nations; • market expectations about future prices; • the level of global natural gas and oil exploration, production activity and inventories; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil producing activity; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. If we discover reserves, lower natural gas and oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties in combining Incremental’s operations with ours may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition. There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with our acquisition of Incremental. The acquisition is expected to provide substantial benefits, including among other things, expanding our rig fleet and increasing our workforce of highly qualified field staff, engineers and geologists in Turkey, one of our target countries. Achieving such expected benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • whether the operations of Incremental are integrated with our company in an efficient and effective manner; • difficulty transitioning customers and other business relationships to TransAtlantic; • problems unifying management of a combined company; • loss of key employees from our existing or acquired businesses; and • intensified competition from other companies seeking to expand sales and market share during the integration period. Failure to achieve these benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy from the development and operation of our existing business that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may experience difficulty staffing our drilling rigs. We have a limited number of employees and will need to staff our drilling rigs and add staff to other departments. We may experience difficulty in finding a sufficient number of experienced crews to work on our drilling rigs and experienced staff in other departments to complete the work required. Our contract drilling operations will depend on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Our contract drilling operations will depend on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration and production in our operating markets. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of that activity. Because oil and natural gas prices are volatile, the level of exploration and production activity can also be volatile. Lower oil and natural gas prices may depress our level of exploration and production activity. To the extent that we establish natural gas and oil reserves, we will be required to replace, maintain or expand our natural gas and oil reserves in order to prevent our reserves and production from declining, which would adversely affect cash flows and income. In general, production from natural gas and oil properties declines over time as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we establish reserves and are not successful in our subsequent exploration and development activities or in subsequently acquiring properties containing reserves, our reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our ability to economically find, develop or acquire reserves in commercial quantities. To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced, either by a decrease in prevailing prices for natural gas and oil or an increase in finding and development costs, and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired. Even with sufficient available capital, our future exploration and development activities may not result in additional proved reserves, and we might not be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. 7 Table of Contents The value of our common shares might be affected by matters not related to our own operating performance. The value of our common shares may be affected by matters that are not related to our operating performance and which are outside our control. These matters include the following: • the global economic crisis and general economic conditions in Canada, the United States, Romania, Morocco, Turkey and globally; • industry conditions, including fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas; • governmental regulation of the oil and natural gas industry, including environmental regulation; • fluctuation in foreign exchange or interest rates; • liabilities inherent in oil and natural gas operations; • geological, technical, drilling and processing problems; • unanticipated operating events which can reduce production or cause production to be shut in or delayed; • failure to obtain industry partner and other third party consents and approvals, when required; • stock market volatility and market valuations; • competition for, among other things, capital, acquisition of reserves, undeveloped land and skilled personnel; • the need to obtain required approvals from regulatory authorities; • worldwide supplies and prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil; • political conditions and developments in each of the countries in which we operate; • political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions; • revenue and operating results failing to meet expectations in any particular period; • investor perception of the oil and natural gas industry; • limited trading volume of our common shares; • change in environmental and other governmental regulations; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • our liquidity; and • our ability to raise additional funds. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their common shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We might become involved in securities class action litigation in the future. Such litigation often results in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We might not be able to obtain necessary permits, approvals or agreements from one or more government agencies, surface owners, or other third parties, which could hamper our exploration or development activities. There are numerous permits, approvals, and agreements with third parties, which will be necessary in order to enable us to proceed with our development plans and otherwise accomplish our objectives. The government agencies in each 8 Table of Contents country in which we operate have discretion in interpreting various laws, regulations, and policies governing operations under the licenses. Further, we may be required to enter into agreements with private surface owners to obtain access to, and agreements for, the location of surface facilities. In addition, because many of the laws governing oil and gas operations in the international countries in which we operate have been enacted relatively recently, there is only a relatively short history of the government agencies handling and interpreting those laws, including the various regulations and policies relating to those laws. This short history does not provide extensive precedents or the level of certainty that allows us to predict whether such agencies will act favorably toward us. The governments have broad discretion to interpret requirements for the issuance of drilling permits. Our inability to meet any such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our exploration or development activities. Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends on the success of our exploration, development and potential production activities in each of our prospects. These activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that we will not find any commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project unprofitable. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or prevent drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • pipeline and processing interruptions or unavailability; • title problems; • adverse weather conditions; • lack of market demand for natural gas and oil; • delays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; and • declines in natural gas and oil prices. Our future drilling activities might not be successful, and drilling success rates overall or within a particular area could decline. We could incur losses by drilling unproductive wells. Shut-in wells, curtailed production and other production interruptions may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, development and acquisition with a substantial number of other companies, including U.S.-based and foreign companies doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking oil and gas exploration licenses and production licenses; • acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing natural gas and oil production, to the extent we discover reserves; • integrating new technologies; and • acquiring the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, managerial, technological and other resources than we do. These companies are able to pay more for exploratory prospects, and productive oil and gas properties and prospects than we can. To the extent competitors are able to pay more for properties than we are paying, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, many of our competitors enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. 9 Table of Contents Political instability or fundamental changes in the leadership or in the structure of the governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material negative impact on us. Our interests may be affected by political and economic upheavals. Local, regional and world events could cause the jurisdictions in which we operate to change the petroleum laws, tax laws, foreign investment laws, or to revise their policies in a manner that renders our current and future projects unprofitable. Further, the governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate could decide to nationalize the oil and gas industry or impose restrictions and penalties on foreign-owned entities, which could render our projects unprofitable or could prevent us from selling our assets or operating our business. The occurrence of any such fundamental change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to complete the exploration and development of any, or a significant portion of, the oil and gas interests covered by our leases or licenses before they expire. Each license or lease under which we operate has a fixed term. We may be unable to complete our exploration and development efforts prior to the expiration of licenses or leases. Failure to obtain government approval for a license or lease, an extension of the license or lease, be granted a new exploration license or lease or the failure to obtain a license or lease covering a sufficiently large area would prevent or limit us from continuing to explore and develop a significant portion of the oil and gas interests covered by the license or lease. The determination of the amount of acreage to be covered by the production licenses is in the discretion of the respective governments. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can have a material adverse effect on our cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration for and exploitation, production and sale of oil and gas in each country in which we operate is subject to extensive national and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations, and requires various permits and approvals from various governmental agencies. If these permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we might not be able to conduct our operations as planned. Alternatively, failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including the requirements of any permits, might result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to penalties. Our costs to comply with these numerous laws, regulations and permits are significant. Further, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs and associated liabilities. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not plan to insure against all potential operating risks. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our natural gas and oil operations. We do not intend to insure against all risks. Our natural gas and oil exploration and future production activities will be subject to hazards and risks associated with drilling for, producing and transporting natural gas and oil, and any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling, and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; • regulatory investigations and penalties; and • natural disasters. We might elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We might not be able to identify liabilities associated with properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. Our review and evaluation of prospects and future acquisitions might not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems. For example, inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, may not be readily identified even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, a seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired properties. We are subject to operating hazards. The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosion, blowout, pipe failure, casing collapse, stuck tools, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, loss of or damage to well bores and/or drilling or production equipment, costs of overcoming downhole problems, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Gathering systems and processing facilities are subject to many of the same hazards and any significant problems related to those facilities could adversely affect our ability to market our production. The interests of our controlling shareholder may not coincide with yours and such controlling shareholder may make decisions with which you may disagree. As of March 31, 2009, N. Malone Mitchell, 3rd, chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned 64.6% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Mitchell controls substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and make some future transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Mitchell. The interests of Mr. Mitchell may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. Accordingly, Mr. Mitchell could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that our shareholders would not approve or make decisions with which our shareholders may disagree. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of Mr. Mitchell, Scott C. Larsen, President, and Matthew McCann, Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any of Messrs. Mitchell, Larsen or McCann could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on Messrs. Mitchell or McCann. 11 Table of Contents U.S. shareholders who hold common shares during a period when we are classified as a passive foreign investment company may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Management believes that we are not currently a passive foreign investment company. However, we may have been a passive foreign investment company during one or more of our prior taxable years. In general, our classification as a passive foreign investment company during a period when a U.S. shareholder holds common shares could result in certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to such shareholder. Certain U.S. shareholders who hold common shares during a period when we are classified as a controlled foreign corporation may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. Management believes that we currently are a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, a U.S. shareholder that owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our shares entitled to vote on the last day of our taxable year may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules with respect to its investment in the Company. Our retained net profits interest on Oil Mining License 109 may not yield any revenue to us. In June 2005, we sold our interest in Oil Mining License 109, a 215,000 acre concession located offshore Nigeria (“OML 109”), and retained a net profits interest of up to $16 million based on future exploration success. Absent a new discovery on OML 109 by the new owner, the retained net profits interest will not yield any revenue to us. 