ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business The amount of cash we generate depends, in part, on factors beyond our control. The amounts of cash that we generate may not be sufficient for us to pay distributions at our current or any other level of distribution. Our ability to make cash distributions depends primarily on our cash flow. Cash distributions do not depend directly on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash 21 Table of Contents distributions may be made during periods when we record losses and may not be made during periods when we record profits. The actual amounts of cash we generate will depend upon numerous factors relating to our business which may be beyond our control, including: • the demand for and price of natural gas and NGLs; • the volume of natural gas we transport; • expiration of significant contracts; • continued development of wells for connection to our gathering systems; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the expenses we incur in providing our gathering services; • the cost of acquisitions and capital improvements; • our issuance of equity securities; • required principal and interest payments on our debt; • fluctuations in working capital; • prevailing economic conditions; • fuel conservation measures; • alternate fuel requirements; • government regulation and taxation; and • technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the sources of cash used to fund our acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and requirements to pay dividends on our outstanding preferred units, and restrictions on distributions contained in our current or future debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner for the conduct of our business. We can’t borrow under our credit facility to pay distributions of available cash to unitholders because such borrowings would not constitute “working capital borrowings” under our partnership agreement. Because we can’t borrow money to pay distributions unless we establish a facility that meets the definition contained in our partnership agreement, our ability to pay a distribution in any quarter is solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient operating surplus with respect to that quarter. 22 Table of Contents Our financial and operating performance may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We may be unable to continue to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facilities and make distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to do so, we may be required to sell assets or equity, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing. We may be unable to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by the continued financial crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the current credit crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This has resulted in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas, and may result in a reduction in drilling activity in our service area or in wells currently connected to our pipeline system being shut in by their operators until prices improve. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and our ability to fund capital expenditures and in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facilities and make distributions to our unitholders. Recent instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, has increased the cost of capital while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. This may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund our operations. We rely on our cash flow from operations and our credit facility to execute our growth strategy and to meet our financial commitments and other short-term liquidity needs. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our access to liquidity needed for our business and impact our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until we can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs. Such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing our operations to lower expenses, reducing other discretionary uses of cash, and reducing or eliminating future distributions to our unitholders. We may be unable to execute our growth strategy, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact our business. The current economic situation could have an adverse impact on our lenders, producers, key suppliers or other customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Market conditions could also impact our derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow and ability to make required debt service payments on our credit facility and pay distributions could be impacted. The uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. Our debt levels and restrictions in our credit facility could limit our ability to fund operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. We have a significant amount of debt. We will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. 23 Table of Contents If we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any fiscal quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive such payments in the future. Our distributions to our unitholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive such payments in the future. We are affected by the volatility of prices for natural gas and NGL products. We derive a majority of our gross margin from POP and keep-whole contracts. As a result, our income depends to a significant extent upon the prices at which we buy and sell natural gas and at which we sell NGLs and condensate. A 10% change in the average price of NGLs, natural gas and condensate we process and sell, based upon estimated unhedged market prices of $0.76 per gallon, $6.50 per mmbtu and $55.00 per barrel for NGLs, natural gas and condensate, respectively, would change our gross margin for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2009 by approximately $25.3 million. Additionally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly impact our profitability since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations, and could cause operators of wells currently connected to our pipeline system or that we expect will be connected to our system to shut us in until prices improve, thereby affecting the volume of gas we gather and process. Historically, the price of both natural gas and NGLs has been subject to significant volatility in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for natural gas and NGL products, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, including those we describe in “—The amount of cash we generate depends in part on factors beyond our control,” above. Oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile recently and have declined substantially. On December 19, 2008, the price of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell to $33.87 per barrel for January 2009 delivery, declining to an approximate five-year low from a high of $147.27 per barrel in July 2008. We expect this volatility to continue. This volatility may cause our gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. Our risk management strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the throughput volumes. Moreover, derivative instruments are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “— Our price risk management strategies may fail to protect us and could reduce our gross margin and cash flow.” The amount of natural gas we transport will decline over time unless we are able to attract new wells to connect to our gathering systems. Production of natural gas from a well generally declines over time until the well can no longer economically produce natural gas and is plugged and abandoned. Failure to connect new wells to our gathering systems could, therefore, result in the amount of natural gas we transport declining substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause us to abandon one or more of our gathering systems and, possibly, cease operations. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include our success in contracting for existing wells that are not committed to other systems, the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems and, in the Mid-Continent region, our ability to attract natural gas producers away from our competitors’ gathering systems. Over time, fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. A decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering and processing facilities and pipeline transportation systems could result if there is a sustained decline in natural gas prices which, in turn, would lead to a reduced utilization of these assets. The decline in the credit markets, the lack of availability of credit, debt or equity financing and the decline in natural gas prices may result in a reduction of producers’ exploratory drilling. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our service areas, the amount of reserves underlying wells that connect to our systems and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, drilling costs, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. In a low price environment, such as currently exists, producers may determine to shut in wells already connected to our systems until prices improve. Because our operating costs are fixed to a significant degree, a reduction in the natural gas volumes we transport or process would result in a reduction in our gross margin and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents The amount of natural gas we transport, treat or process may be reduced if the natural gas liquids pipelines to which we deliver NGLs cannot or will not accept the NGLs. If one or more of the pipelines to which we deliver NGLs has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the NGLs we sell to or transport on, and we cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines, the amount of NGLs we sell or transport may be reduced. Since our revenues depend upon the volumes of NGLs we sell or transport, this could result in a material reduction in our gross margin and cash flows. The success of our Appalachian operations depends upon Atlas Energy’s ability to drill and complete commercial producing wells. Substantially all of the wells we connect to our gathering systems in our Appalachian service area are drilled and operated by Atlas Energy for drilling investment partnerships sponsored by it. As a result, our Appalachian operations depend principally upon the success of Atlas Energy in sponsoring drilling investment partnerships and completing wells for these partnerships. Atlas Energy operates in a highly competitive environment for acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage and attracting capital. Atlas Energy may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage or in raising additional capital through its drilling investment partnerships. Furthermore, Atlas Energy is not required to connect wells for which it is not the operator to our gathering systems. If Atlas Energy cannot or does not continue to sponsor drilling investment partnerships, if the amount of money raised by those partnerships decreases, or if the number of wells actually drilled and completed as commercially producing wells decreases, the amount of natural gas transported by our Appalachian gathering systems would substantially decrease and could, upon exhaustion of the wells currently connected to our gathering systems, cause us to abandon one or more of our Appalachian gathering systems, thereby materially reducing our gross margin and cash flows. The failure of Atlas Energy to perform its obligations under our natural gas gathering agreements with it may adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our Appalachian operating system revenues currently consist of the fees we receive under the master natural gas gathering agreement and other transportation agreements we have with Atlas Energy and its affiliates. We expect to derive a material portion of our gross margin from the services we provide under our contracts with Atlas Energy for the foreseeable future. Any factor or event adversely affecting Atlas Energy’s business or its ability to perform under its contracts with us or any default or nonperformance by Atlas Energy of its contractual obligations to us, could reduce our gross margin and cash flows. The success of our Mid-Continent operations depends upon our ability to continually find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply from unrelated third parties. Unlike our Appalachian operations, none of the drillers or operators in our Mid-Continent service area is an affiliate of ours. Moreover, our agreements with most of the producers with which our Mid-Continent operations do business generally do not require them to dedicate significant amounts of undeveloped acreage to our systems. While we do have some undeveloped acreage dedicated on our systems, most notably with our partner Pioneer on our Midkiff/Benedum system, we do not have assured sources to provide us with new wells to connect to our Mid-Continent gathering systems. Failure to connect new wells to our Mid-Continent operations will, as described in “—The amount of natural gas we transport will decline over time unless we are able to attract new wells to connect to our gathering systems,” above, will reduce our gross margin and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Our Mid-Continent operations currently depend on certain key producers for their supply of natural gas; the loss of any of these key producers could reduce our revenues. During 2008, Chesapeake Energy Corporation, Pioneer, Sandridge Energy, Inc., Conoco Phillips, XTO Energy Inc., Henry Petroleum, L.P., Linn Energy, LLC and Apache Corporation supplied our Mid-Continent systems with a majority of their natural gas supply. If these producers reduce the volumes of natural gas that they supply to us, our gross margin and cash flows would be reduced unless we obtain comparable supplies of natural gas from other producers. The curtailment of operations at, or closure of, any of our processing plants could harm our business. If operations at any of our processing plants were to be curtailed, or closed, whether due to accident, natural catastrophe, environmental regulation or for any other reason, our ability to process natural gas from the relevant gathering system and, as a result, our ability to extract and sell NGLs, would be harmed. If this curtailment or stoppage were to extend for more than a short period, our gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. We may face increased competition in the future in our Mid-Continent service areas. Our Mid-Continent operations may face competition for well connections. DCP Midstream, LLC, ONEOK, Inc., Carrera Gas Company, Copano Energy, LLC and Enogex, LLC operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our Velma service area. In our Elk City and Sweetwater service area, ONEOK Field Services, Eagle Rock Midstream Resources, L.P., Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P., CenterPoint Energy, Inc., MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. and Enogex LLC operate competing gathering systems and processing plants. CenterPoint Energy, Inc.’s and Texas Gas Transmission’s interstate system is the nearest direct competitor to our Ozark Gas Transmission system. CenterPoint and Hiland Partners operate competing gathering systems in Ozark Gas Gathering’s service area. Hiland Partners, DCP Midstream, Mustang Fuel Corporation and ONEOK Partners operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our Chaney Dell service area. DCP Midstream, J.L. Davis, and Targa Resources operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our Midkiff/Benedum service area. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. If these companies become more active in our Mid-Continent service areas, we may not be able to compete successfully with them in securing new well connections or retaining current well connections. If we do not compete successfully, the amount of natural gas we transport, process and treat will decrease, reducing our gross margin and cash flows. The amount of natural gas we transport, treat or process may be reduced if the public utility and interstate pipelines to which we deliver gas cannot or will not accept the gas. Our gathering systems principally serve as intermediate transportation facilities between sales lines from wells connected to our systems and the public utility or interstate pipelines to which we deliver natural gas. If one or more of these pipelines has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the natural gas we transport, and we cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines, local distribution companies or end users, the amount of natural gas we transport may be reduced. Since our revenues depend upon the volumes of natural gas we transport, this could result in a material reduction in our gross margin and cash flows. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the risk that reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; 26 Table of Contents • significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • delays in obtaining any required regulatory approvals of third party consents; • the imposition of conditions on any acquisition by a regulatory authority; • an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • increased demands on existing personnel; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely impact our future growth and our ability to make or increase distributions. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from our recent acquisitions or any future acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. We have an active, on-going program to identify potential acquisitions. Our integration of previously independent operations with our own can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems with its existing systems include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating pipeline safety-related records and procedures; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Our investment in the interconnection of our Elk City/Sweetwater and Chaney Dell systems and the additional overhead costs we incur to grow our NGL business may not deliver the expected incremental volume or cash flow. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents The acquisitions of the Chaney Dell and the Midkiff/Benedum systems have substantially changed our business, making it difficult to evaluate our business based upon our historical financial information. The acquisitions of the Chaney Dell and the Midkiff/Benedum systems have significantly increased our size and substantially redefined our business plan, expanded our geographic market and resulted in large changes to our revenues and expenses. As a result of these acquisitions, and our continued plan to acquire and integrate additional companies that we believe present attractive opportunities, our financial results for any period or changes in our results across periods may continue to dramatically change. Our historical financial results, therefore, should not be relied upon to accurately predict our future operating results, thereby making the evaluation of our business more difficult. Due to our lack of asset diversification, negative developments in our operations would reduce our ability to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facilities and make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our transportation, gathering and processing operations, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to our lack of asset-type diversification, a negative development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could impair our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new assets, such as our recent expansion of our Sweetwater plant. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and facilities, and the construction of new assets, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Any projects we undertake may not be completed on schedule at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a gathering system, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increase in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas reserves, we often do not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area before constructing facilities in the area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, the estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could impair our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our actual revenues from a project could materially differ from expectations as a result of the price of natural gas, the NGL content of the natural gas processed and other economic factors described in this section. We recently completed construction of an expansion to our Sweetwater natural gas processing plant, from which we expect to generate additional incremental cash flow. We also continue to expand the natural gas gathering system surrounding Sweetwater in order to maximize its plant throughput. In addition to the risks discussed above, expected incremental revenue from the Sweetwater natural gas processing plant could be reduced or delayed due to the following reasons: • difficulties in obtaining equity or debt financing for additional construction and operating costs; • difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory or third-party consents; • additional construction and operating costs exceeding budget estimates; • revenue being less than expected due to lower commodity prices or lower demand; 28 Table of Contents • difficulties in obtaining consistent supplies of natural gas; and • terms in operating agreements that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows could be reduced. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way before constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows could be reduced. Regulation of our gathering operations could increase our operating costs, decrease our revenues, or both. Currently our gathering and processing of natural gas is exempt from regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. However, the implementation of new laws or policies, or changed interpretations of existing laws, could subject our gathering and processing operations to regulation by FERC under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act, or other laws enacted after the date of this Form 10-K. Any such regulation would increase our costs, decrease our gross margin and cash flows, or both. Even if our gathering and processing operations are not generally subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act, FERC regulation will still affect our business and the market for our products. FERC’s policies and practices affect a range of our natural gas pipeline activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate natural gas pipeline open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, environmental protection and market center promotion, which indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Since federal law generally leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, state and local regulations may also affect our business. Matters subject to such regulation include access, rates, terms of service and safety. For example, our gathering lines are subject to ratable take, common purchaser, and similar statutes in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer, while ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Texas and Oklahoma have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with respect to rates or terms of service. Should a complaint be filed or regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission or Oklahoma Corporation Commission become more active, our revenues could decrease. Collectively, all of these statutes may restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of the Ozark Gas Transmission pipeline and our other assets could require us to spend additional money to comply with these requirements. In particular, Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. Federal legislation signed into law in December 2002 includes guidelines for the U.S. Department of Transportation and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. Compliance with existing and recently enacted regulations requires significant expenditures. Additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future, such as U.S. Department of Transportation implementation of additional hydrostatic testing requirements, could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. 29 Table of Contents Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to FERC rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating the pipeline. FERC’s rate-making policies could affect Ozark Gas Transmission’s ability to establish rates, or to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. Natural gas companies may only charge rates that have been determined to be just and reasonable by FERC. The rates, terms and conditions of service provided by natural gas companies are required to be on file with FERC in FERC-approved tariffs. Pursuant to FERC’s jurisdiction over rates, existing rates may be challenged by complaint and proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest. We cannot assure you that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas capacity and transportation facilities. Any successful complaint or protest against Ozark Gas Transmission’s rates could reduce our revenues associated with providing transmission services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recover all of Ozark Gas Transmission’s costs through existing or future rates. Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to regulation by FERC in addition to FERC rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services. FERC’s regulatory authority also extends to: • operating terms and conditions of service; • the types of services Ozark Gas Transmission’s may offer to its customers; • transactions involving the assignment of interstate pipeline capacity; • construction of new facilities; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; • accounts and records, as well as periodic reporting requirements; and • relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. FERC action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations could impair Ozark Gas Transmission’s ability to compete for business, increase the costs it incurs in its operations, limit the construction of new facilities or its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipeline. For example, revisions to interstate gas quality standards by FERC could create two distinct markets for natural gas—an interstate market subject to minimum quality standards and an intrastate market with different minimum quality standards. Such a bifurcation of markets could make it difficult for our pipelines to compete in both markets or to attract certain gas supplies away from the intrastate market. The time FERC takes to approve the construction of new facilities could raise the costs of our projects to the point where they are no longer economic. FERC has authority over the terms and conditions of interstate pipeline services. Under FERC’s open access requirements, service generally must be undertaken pursuant to the terms and conditions of the pipeline’s open access tariff. Contracts for such services that deviate in a material manner from a pipeline’s tariff must be filed for approval by FERC or, alternatively, the pipeline must amend its generally available tariff to include the deviating terms, thereby offering it to all shippers. If FERC audits a pipeline’s contracts and finds deviations that appear to be unduly discriminatory, FERC could conduct a formal enforcement investigation, resulting in serious penalties and/or onerous ongoing compliance obligations. 30 Table of Contents Should Ozark Gas Transmission fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. Finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which we will operate Ozark Gas Transmission or the effect such regulation could have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the DOT and state agencies could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. DOT and state agency regulations require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventative and mitigating actions. We do not believe that the cost of implementing integrity management program testing along certain segments of our pipeline will have a material effect on our results of operations. This does not include the costs, if any, of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which costs could be substantial. Our midstream natural gas operations may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or a release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our gathering systems, plant and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties 31 Table of Contents for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. We may not be able to execute our growth strategy successfully. Our strategy contemplates substantial growth through both the acquisition of other gathering systems and processing assets and the expansion of our existing gathering systems and processing assets. Our growth strategy involves numerous risks, including: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; • we may not be able to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms for various reasons, including limitations on access to capital and increased competition for a limited pool of suitable assets; • our costs in seeking to make acquisitions may be material, even if we cannot complete any acquisition we have pursued; • irrespective of estimates at the time we make an acquisition, the acquisition may prove to be dilutive to earnings and operating surplus; • we may encounter delays in receiving regulatory approvals or may receive approvals that are subject to material conditions; • we may encounter difficulties in integrating operations and systems; and • any additional debt we incur to finance an acquisition may impair our ability to service our existing debt. Limitations on our access to capital or the market for our common units will impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our ability to raise capital for acquisitions and other capital expenditures depends upon ready access to the capital markets. Historically, we have financed our acquisitions, and to a much lesser extent, expansions of our gathering systems by bank credit facilities and the proceeds of public and private debt and equity offerings of our common units and preferred units of our operating partnership. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we may be unable to execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions. We may issue additional units, which may increase the risk of not having sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. We have wide discretion to issue additional units, including units that rank senior to our common units as to quarterly cash distributions, on the terms and conditions established by our general partner. The payment of distributions on these additional units may increase the risk that we will not be able to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. To the extent new units are senior to our common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on the common units. 32 Table of Contents Our price risk management strategies may fail to protect us and could reduce our gross margin and cash flow. We pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in the prices for natural gas, condensate and NGLs. Our price risk management activities will vary in scope based upon the level and volatility of natural gas, condensate and NGL prices and other changing market conditions. Our price risk management activity may fail to protect or could harm us because, among other things: • entering into derivative instruments can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • available derivative instruments may not correspond directly with the risks against which we seek protection; • the duration of the derivative instrument may not match the duration of the risk against which we seek protection; and • the party owing money in the derivative transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Due to the accounting treatment of our derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions. With the objective of enhancing the predictability of future revenues, from time to time we enter into natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil derivative contracts. We account for these derivative contracts by applying the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Due to the mark-to-market accounting treatment required for these derivative contracts, we could recognize incremental derivative liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases or decreases in reference prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, which could result in our recognizing a non-cash loss in our consolidated statements of operations or through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a consequent non-cash decrease in our partners’ capital between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. In addition, we may be required to make a cash payment upon the termination of any of these derivative contracts. Our risk management activities do not eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and may reduce our cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative contracts related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs with the intent of reducing the volatility of our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. We also have exposure to interest rate fluctuations as a result of variable rate debt under our term loan and revolving credit facility. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of this variable rate debt to a fixed rate obligation, thereby reducing our exposure to market rate fluctuations. We have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our crude oil, natural gas and NGL volume and our variable rate debt. As a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price risk and interest rate risk with respect to the unhedged portion of these items. To the extent we protect our commodity price and interest rate risk using certain derivative contracts, we will forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. Even though our price risk management activities are monitored by management, these activities could reduce our cash flow in some circumstances, including if the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations, if there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices received or, with regard to commodity derivatives, if production is less than expected. With respect to commodity derivative contracts, if the actual amount of production is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our cash flow. In addition, we have entered into proxy hedges with respect to our 33 Table of Contents NGLs, typically using crude oil derivative contracts, based upon the historical price correlation between crude oil and NGLs. Certain of these proxy hedges could become less effective as a result of significant increases in the price of crude oil and less significant increases in the price of ethane and propane. If these proxy hedges remain less effective, our settlement of the contracts could result in significant costs to us. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, our financial statements may reflect volatility due to these derivatives, even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices and interest rates. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices and interest rates for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. Litigation or governmental regulation relating to environmental protection and operational safety may result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal and state environmental laws under which owners of natural gas pipelines can be liable for clean-up costs and fines in connection with any pollution caused by their pipelines. We may also be held liable for clean-up costs resulting from pollution which occurred before our acquisition of the gathering systems. In addition, we are subject to federal and state safety laws that dictate the type of pipeline, quality of pipe protection, depth, methods of welding and other construction-related standards. Any violation of environmental, construction or safety laws could impose substantial liabilities and costs on us. We are also subject to the requirements of OSHA, and comparable state statutes. Any violation of OSHA could impose substantial costs on us. We cannot predict whether or in what form any new legislation or regulatory requirements might be enacted or adopted, nor can we predict our costs of compliance. In general, we expect that new regulations would increase our operating costs and, possibly, require us to obtain additional capital to pay for improvements or other compliance action necessitated by those regulations. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incidental to transporting and processing natural gas and NGLs. These hazards include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations; and • acts of terrorism directed at our pipeline infrastructure, production facilities, transmission and distribution facilities and surrounding properties. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable 34 Table of Contents rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for some of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, our gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. The IRS could treat us as a corporation for tax purposes, which could substantially reduce our cash flow. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open or any future year, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income for such year at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash flow would be substantially reduced. Risks Related to Our Ownership Structure Atlas America and its affiliates, including Atlas Energy, have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Atlas America and its affiliates own and control our general partner, which also owns a 13.9% limited partner interest in us. We do not have any employees and rely solely on employees of Atlas America and its affiliates who serve as our agents, including all of the senior managers who operate our business. A number of officers and employees of Atlas America also own interests in us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Atlas America, our general partner and their affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Employees of Atlas America who provide services to us also devote significant time to the businesses of Atlas America in which we have no economic interest. If these separate activities are significantly greater than our activities, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the employees who provide services to our general partner, which could result in insufficient attention to the management and operation of our business. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Atlas America to pursue a future business strategy that favors us or, apart from our agreements with Atlas America relating to our Appalachian region operations, use our assets for transportation or processing services we provide. Atlas America’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Atlas America. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Atlas America, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to us. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our agreements with Atlas Energy. Conflicts of interest with Atlas America and its affiliates, including the foregoing factors, could exacerbate periods of lower or declining performance, or otherwise reduce our gross margin and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and will reduce the cash available for distributions to our unitholders. We reimburse Atlas America, our general partner and their affiliates, including officers and directors of Atlas America, for all expenses they incur on our behalf. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, Atlas America and its affiliates provide us with services for which we are charged reasonable fees as determined by Atlas America in its sole discretion. The reimbursement of expenses or payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facilities and make distributions to our unitholders. Our control of the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems is limited by provisions of the limited liability company operating agreements with Anadarko and, with respect to the Midkiff/Benedum system, the operation and expansion agreement with Pioneer. The managing member of each of the limited liability companies which owns the interests in the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems is our subsidiary. However, the consent of Anadarko is required for specified extraordinary transactions, such as admission of new members, engaging in transactions with our affiliates not approved by the company conflicts committee, incurring debt outside the ordinary course of business and disposing of company assets above specified thresholds. The Midkiff/Benedum system is also governed by an operation and expansion agreement with Pioneer which gives system owners having at least a 60% interest in the system the right to approve the annual operating budget and capital investment budget and to impose other limitations on the operation of the system. Thus, a holder of a greater than 40% interest in the system would effectively have a veto right over the operation of the system. Pioneer currently owns an approximate 27% interest in the system but, pursuant to the purchase option agreement, has the right to acquire up to an additional 22% interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 