ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Decline in general economic conditions may lead to reduced consumer demand for our apparel and accessories. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the fashionable apparel and related accessories that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. The current challenges facing the United States economy and the presently uncertain economic outlook have adversely affected consumer spending habits and mall traffic and are likely to continue to do so in the foreseeable future, which could continue to impact our net sales and cause us to slow our expansion plans. If economic conditions continue to worsen it may be necessary for us to seek additional sources of capital and to substantially reduce planned new store openings and other capital projects. Due to the current credit crisis and other negative macroeconomic indicators, additional sources of capital may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate sources of capital are not available on favorable terms, we may be required to further reduce planned new store openings and other capital projects. Our success depends on our ability to identify and rapidly respond to consumer fashion tastes. The fashion retail industry is subject to rapidly evolving fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success is heavily dependent both on the priority our target customers place on fashion and on our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends in a timely manner. If we do not anticipate, identify or react appropriately and timely to changes in styles, trends, desired images or brand preferences, it may lead to, among other things, excess inventories and higher markdowns, as well as decreased appeal of our Charlotte Russe brand. We intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and cause us to operate our business less effectively. Our growth will largely depend on successfully opening and operating new stores. We opened 57 new Charlotte Russe stores and closed 2 stores for a net total of 55 additional stores in fiscal 2008. This represented a 13% net increase from the number of Charlotte Russe stores open at the end of fiscal 2007. We intend to continue to increase our number of stores for at least the next several years, although we expect to modulate our growth rate in the near term due to the challenging economic climate at the present time. In order to support our planned expansion we will need to continually monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems. This expansion also will place increased demand on our managerial, operational and administrative resources. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores and our company as a whole and slow our new store growth. Our planned expansion involves a number of risks that could prevent or delay the successful opening of new stores as well as impact the performance of our existing stores. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; • hire, train and retain store personnel; 5 Table of Contents • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; and • identify and satisfy the fashion preferences of new geographic areas. In addition, some of our new stores will be opened in regions of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. The expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. Our stores are heavily dependent on the customer traffic generated by shopping malls. Most of our store locations are not sufficiently concentrated to make significant marketing expenditures cost effective. As a result, we depend heavily on locating our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls in order to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls or the financial viability or success of individual shopping malls. If mall operators experience financial difficulties or bankruptcy, including as a result of the current challenges facing the United States economy, customer traffic in the affected malls could decrease, which in turn could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We rely on our management team to implement our business strategy successfully. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the services of our key personnel, including senior management, who are “at will” employees and make significant contributions to our business. In recent months, we hired three new executive officers and promoted two members of management to executive officer positions. This new management team is focused on pursuing our new strategic plan and executing on its key areas. If any of our key personnel were to leave us, such a loss could reduce future sales, increase costs or both. Our success in the future will also depend upon our ability to attract, integrate, train and retain talented and qualified personnel. Our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national and local specialty retail stores, regional retail chains, traditional department stores and, to a lesser extent, mass merchandisers. Our market share and results of operations may be adversely impacted by this significant number of competitors. Many of our competitors also are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. We rely on our good relationships with vendors to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business is dependent on continued good relations with our vendors. In particular, we believe that we generally are able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors because we are perceived as a desirable customer. Our merchandise strategy also relies in large part on our ability to obtain much of our merchandise from our vendors within one to two months from the date of order. Our failure to maintain good relations with our vendors could increase our exposure to changing fashion cycles, which may in turn lead to increased inventory markdown rates. The price of our common stock could fluctuate or decline substantially due to fluctuations in our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations or other factors. Our quarterly results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline substantially. For instance, our quarterly comparable store sales percentages for the Charlotte Russe stores have ranged as high as positive 4.8% and as low as negative 6.5% over the last eight fiscal quarters. Our net sales and operating results are typically lower in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the winter holiday season. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • general economic conditions, such as the current credit crisis and associated economic downturn, and, in particular, the retail sales environment; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; 6 Table of Contents • our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels; • fashion trends; • changes in our merchandise mix and timing of promotional events; • the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores; • actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants; and • weather conditions. In addition, announcements by other retailers, the trading volume of our common stock, changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts, repurchases of our common stock or other strategic transactions, acquisition proposals and the general condition of the financial markets could cause our stock price to fluctuate substantially. The failure to efficiently complete any upgrades or enhancements to certain of our technology and information systems could negatively impact our business. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on information systems. In particular, we rely upon technology and information systems for inventory control, point-of-sale processing and other critical information. We periodically review, improve and, under certain circumstances, replace information systems to provide enhanced support to all operating areas. If such upgrades and enhancements are not successfully implemented, then the current systems may not be able to continue to adequately support our information requirements. The loss of, or disruption of operations in our distribution center could negatively impact our business. Our merchandise is distributed through our facility that uses automated systems for sorting apparel and shipping merchandise. We depend on the orderly operation of our facility and distribution processes, as well as sufficient shipping resources. Disruptions in these operations due to fire, earthquake or other catastrophic events, employee matters, shipping problems or other events could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism, heightened security measures and military action in response to acts of terrorism has disrupted commerce and has intensified concerns regarding the United States economy. Any further acts of terrorism, particularly directed at malls, or new or extended hostilities may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales by causing mall traffic or consumer spending to decline. Failure of our suppliers to use acceptable ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our inventory and expose us to financial obligations to a third party. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our business could be adversely impacted by unfavorable international conditions. We receive apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. To the extent that any of our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could harm our ability to source product. This disruption could materially limit the merchandise that we would have available for sale and reduce our revenues and earnings. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability, or war, in or affecting any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured or through which they flow. 7 Table of Contents Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, that are applicable to the products that we sell also could affect the import of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. Any material increase in tariff levels, or any material decrease in quota levels or available quota allocation, could negatively impact our business. Further, changes in tariffs or quotas for merchandise imported from individual foreign countries could lead us to shift our sources of supply among various countries. Any shift we might undertake in the future could result in a disruption of our sources of supply and lead to a reduction in our revenues and earnings. Supply chain security initiatives undertaken by the United States government that impede the normal flow of product could also negatively impact our business. We may be liable for any defaults with respect to the leases for our Rampage stores disposed of in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2006, we sold the lease rights, store fixtures and equipment for 43 Rampage store locations to Forever 21 Retail, Inc. Forever 21, Inc., the parent company of Forever 21 Retail, guaranteed Forever 21 Retail’s obligations under the leases that it assumed in connection with the transaction. In the event Forever 21 Retail or Forever 21 defaults on their obligations under certain of these leases or the guarantee, we may be liable for any damages or costs associated with such a default, which could adversely impact our future results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Like other seasoned issuers, we from time to time receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that we received not less than 180 days before the end of our 2008 fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. 8 Table of Contents 