ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business The amount of cash we generate depends, in part, on factors beyond our control. The amounts of cash that we generate may not be sufficient for us to pay distributions in the future. Our ability to make cash distributions depends primarily on our cash flow. Cash distributions do not depend directly on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions may be made during periods when we record losses and may not be made during periods when we record profits. The actual amounts of cash we generate will depend upon numerous factors relating to our business which may be beyond our control, including: • the demand for natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate; • the price of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate (including the volatility of such prices); • the amount of NGL content in the natural gas we process; • the volume of natural gas we gather; • efficiency of our gathering systems and processing plants; • expiration of significant contracts; • continued development of wells for connection to our gathering systems; • our ability to connect new wells to our gathering systems; • our ability to integrate newly formed ventures or acquired businesses with our existing operations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability of fractionation capacity; • the expenses we incur in providing our gathering services; • the cost of acquisitions and capital improvements; • our issuance of equity securities; • required principal and interest payments on our debt; • fluctuations in working capital; • prevailing economic conditions; 25 Table of Contents • fuel conservation measures; • alternate fuel requirements; • the strength and financial resources of our competitors; • the effectiveness of our hedging program and the creditworthiness of our hedging counterparties; • governmental (including environmental and tax) laws and regulations; and • technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the sources of cash used to fund our acquisitions; • limitations on our access to capital or the market for our common units and notes; • our debt service requirements and requirements to pay dividends on our outstanding preferred units; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner for the conduct of our business. Our financial and operating performance may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We may be unable to continue to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to do so, we may be required to sell assets or equity, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate distributions to unit holders, refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing. We may be unable to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. We cannot borrow under our credit facility to pay distributions of available cash to unitholders because such borrowings would not constitute “working capital borrowings” under our partnership agreement. Because we cannot borrow money to pay distributions unless we establish a facility that meets the definition contained in our partnership agreement, our ability to pay a distribution in any quarter is solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient operating surplus with respect to that quarter. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by the financial markets and related effects in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the effects of the financial crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This may result in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas, and has previously resulted in a reduction in drilling activity in our service area and in wells currently connected to our pipeline system being shut in by their operators until prices improved. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and our ability to fund capital expenditures and in the future, may impact the cash that we have available to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. 26 Table of Contents Potential instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, can cause volatility in the markets and may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund our operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our access to liquidity needed for our business and impact our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We may be unable to execute our growth strategy, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact our business. Economic situations could have an adverse impact on our lenders, producers, key suppliers or other customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Market conditions could also impact our derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow and ability to make required debt service payments on our credit facility and pay distributions could be impacted. The uncertainty and volatility surrounding the global financial system may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. We are affected by the volatility of prices for natural gas, NGL and crude oil products. We derive a majority of our gross margin from POP and Keep-Whole contracts. As a result, our income depends to a significant extent upon the prices at which we buy and sell natural gas and at which we sell NGLs and condensate. Average estimated unhedged 2011 market prices for NGLs, natural gas and condensate, based upon NYMEX forward price curves as of January 11, 2011, are $1.14 per gallon, $4.54 per MMBTU and $92.77 per barrel, respectively. A 10% change in these prices would change our forecasted gross margin for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011 by approximately $13.5 million. Additionally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly impact our profitability since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations, and could cause operators of wells currently connected to our pipeline system or that we expect will be connected to our system to shut in their production until prices improve, thereby affecting the volume of gas we gather and process. Historically, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil have been subject to significant volatility in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for these products, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, including those we describe in “––The amount of cash we generate depends, in part, on factors beyond our control,” above. Oil prices have traded in a range of $68.01 per barrel to $91.51 per barrel in 2010, while natural gas prices have traded in a range of $3.29 per MMBTU to $6.01 per MMBTU, during the same time period. We expect this volatility to continue. This volatility may cause our gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. Our risk management strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the throughput volumes. Moreover, derivative instruments are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “— Our price risk management strategies may fail to protect us and could reduce our gross margin and cash flow.” Our price risk management strategies may fail to protect us and could reduce our gross margin and cash flow. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative contracts related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs with the intent of reducing the volatility of our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. To the extent we protect our commodity price using certain derivative contracts we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices were to change in our favor. Our commodity price risk management activity may fail to protect or could harm us because, among other things: • entering into derivative instruments can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • available derivative instruments may not correspond directly with the risks against which we seek protection; 27 Table of Contents • price relationship between the physical transaction and the derivative transaction could change; • the anticipated physical transaction could be different than projected due to changes in contracts, lower production volumes or other operational impacts, resulting in possible losses on the derivative instrument which are not offset by income on the anticipated physical transaction; and • the party owing money in the derivative transaction may default on its obligation to pay. We cannot predict at this time the outcome of the ongoing efforts by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) to implement the Dodd-Frank Act and to increase the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives including those related to energy commodities. The CFTC efforts are seeking, among other things, increased clearing of such derivatives through clearing organizations and the increased standardization of contracts, products, and collateral requirements. Such changes could negatively impact our ability to hedge our portfolio in an efficient, cost-effective manner by, among other things, increasing the cost of entering into derivative contracts and decreasing liquidity in the forward commodity markets. Due to the accounting treatment of our derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions. With the objective of enhancing the predictability of future revenues, from time to time we enter into natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil derivative contracts. We account for these derivative contracts by applying the mark-to-market accounting treatment required for these derivative contracts. We could recognize incremental derivative liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases or decreases in reference prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, which could result in our recognizing a non-cash loss in our consolidated statements of operations and a consequent non-cash decrease in our Equity between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. In addition, we may be required to make cash payments upon the termination of any of these derivative contracts. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could negatively impact our business. We have historically experienced minimal collection issues with our counterparties; however our revenue and receivables are highly concentrated in a few key customers and therefore we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers. In an attempt to reduce this risk, credit limits have been established for each customer and we attempt to limit our credit risk by obtaining letters of credit, guarantees or other appropriate forms of security. Nonetheless, we have key customers whose credit risk cannot realistically be otherwise mitigated. Due to our lack of asset diversification, negative developments in our operations would reduce our ability to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facilities and make distributions to our common unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering and processing operations, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Due to our lack of asset-type diversification, a negative development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. The amount of natural gas we gather will decline over time unless we are able to attract new wells to connect to our gathering systems. Production of natural gas from a well generally declines over time until the well can no longer economically produce natural gas and is plugged and abandoned. Failure to connect new wells to our gathering 28 Table of Contents systems could, therefore, result in the amount of natural gas we gather declining substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause us to abandon one or more of our gathering systems and, possibly, cease operations. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include our success in contracting for existing wells that are not committed to other systems, the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems and, in the Mid-Continent region, our ability to attract natural gas producers away from our competitors’ gathering systems. Over time, fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. A decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering and processing facilities could result if there is a sustained decline in natural gas prices which, in turn, would lead to a reduced utilization of these assets. The decline in the credit markets, the lack of availability of credit, debt or equity financing and the decline in natural gas prices may result in a reduction of producers’ exploratory drilling. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our service areas, the amount of reserves underlying wells that connect to our systems and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, drilling costs, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. In a low price environment, producers may determine to shut in wells already connected to our systems until prices improve. Because our operating costs are fixed to a significant degree, a reduction in the natural gas volumes we gather or process would result in a reduction in our gross margin and cash flows. The amount of natural gas we gather or process may be reduced if the natural gas liquids pipelines or fractionation facilities to which we deliver NGLs cannot or will not accept the NGLs. If one or more of the pipelines or fractionation facilities to which we deliver NGLs has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the NGLs we sell to or transport on, and we cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines or facilities, the amount of NGLs we process, sell or transport may be reduced. Since our revenues depend upon the volumes of NGLs we sell or transport, this could result in a material reduction in our gross margin and cash flows. The amount of natural gas we gather, treat or process may be reduced if the intrastate and interstate pipelines to which we deliver gas cannot or will not accept the gas. Our gathering systems principally serve as intermediate transportation facilities between wells connected to our systems and the intrastate or interstate pipelines to which we deliver natural gas. If one or more of these pipelines has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the natural gas we gather, and we cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines, local distribution companies or end users, the amount of natural gas we gather may be reduced. Since our revenues depend upon the volumes of natural gas we gather, this could result in a material reduction in our gross margin and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows could be reduced. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way before constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows could be reduced. 29 Table of Contents The success of our Mid-Continent operations depends upon our ability to continually find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply from. Our agreements with most of the producers with which our Mid-Continent operations do business generally do not require them to dedicate significant amounts of undeveloped acreage to our systems. While we do have some undeveloped acreage dedicated on our systems, most notably with our partner Pioneer on our Midkiff/Benedum system, we do not have assured sources to provide us with new wells to connect to our Mid-Continent gathering systems. Failure to connect new wells to our Mid-Continent operations, as described in “—The amount of natural gas we gather will decline over time unless we are able to attract new wells to connect to our gathering systems,” above, will reduce our gross margin and cash flows. Our Mid-Continent operations currently depend on certain key producers for their supply of natural gas; the loss of any of these key producers could reduce our revenues. During 2010, Apache, Inc., Bluestem Gas Marketing, Chesapeake Energy Corporation, COG Operating LLC, Endeavor Energy Resources LP, Pioneer, Prime Operating Company, Range Resources, Sandridge Exploration and Production, LLC and XTO Energy Inc. accounted for a significant amount of our Mid-Continent operations natural gas supply. If these producers reduce the volumes of natural gas that they supply to us, our gross margin and cash flows would be reduced unless we obtain comparable supplies of natural gas from other producers. The curtailment of operations at, or closure of, any of our processing plants could harm our business. If operations at any of our processing plants were to be curtailed, or closed, whether due to accident, natural catastrophe, environmental regulation or for any other reason, our ability to process natural gas from the relevant gathering system and, as a result, our ability to extract and sell NGLs, would be harmed. If this curtailment or stoppage were to extend for more than a short period, our gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. We may face increased competition in the future in our Mid-Continent operations. Our Mid-Continent operations face competition for well connections. Carrera Gas Company, Copano Energy, LLC, DCP Midstream, LLC, Enogex, LLC and ONEOK, Inc., operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our Velma service area. DCP Midstream, Hiland Partners, Mustang Fuel Corporation, ONEOK Partners and SemGas, L P operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our Chaney Dell service area. DCP Midstream, Southern Union Company, Targa Resources and West Texas Gas operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our Midkiff/Benedum service area. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. If these companies become more active in our Mid-Continent service area, we may not be able to compete successfully with them in securing new well connections or retaining current well connections. If we do not compete successfully, the amount of natural gas we gather, process and treat will decrease, reducing our gross margin and cash flows. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the risk that reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; 30 Table of Contents • delays in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or third party consents; • the imposition of conditions on any acquisition by a regulatory authority; • an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • increased demands on existing personnel; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely impact our future growth and our ability to make or increase distributions. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from any future acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. We have an active, on-going program to identify potential acquisitions. Our integration of previously independent operations with our own can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems with existing systems include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating pipeline safety-related records and procedures; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Our investment and the additional overhead costs we incur to grow our business may not deliver the expected incremental volume or cash flow. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flows. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could impair our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and facilities, and the construction of new assets, involve 31 Table of Contents numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Any projects we undertake may not be completed on schedule at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a gathering system, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increase in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for, and development of, natural gas reserves, we often do not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area before constructing facilities in the area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, the estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could impair our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our actual revenues from a project could materially differ from expectations as a result of the price of natural gas, the NGL content of the natural gas processed and other economic factors described in this section. We continue to expand the natural gas gathering systems surrounding our facilities in order to maximize plant throughput. In addition to the risks discussed above, expected incremental revenue from recent projects could be reduced or delayed due to the following reasons: • difficulties in obtaining capital for additional construction and operating costs; • difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory or third-party consents; • additional construction and operating costs exceeding budget estimates; • revenue being less than expected due to lower commodity prices or lower demand; • difficulties in obtaining consistent supplies of natural gas; and • terms in operating agreements that are not favorable to us. We may not be able to execute our growth strategy successfully. Our strategy contemplates substantial growth through both the acquisition of other gathering systems and processing assets and the expansion of our existing gathering systems and processing assets. Our growth strategy involves numerous risks, including: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; • we may not be able to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms for various reasons, including limitations on access to capital and increased competition for a limited pool of suitable assets; • our costs in seeking to make acquisitions may be material, even if we cannot complete any acquisition we have pursued; • irrespective of estimates at the time we make an acquisition, the acquisition may prove to be dilutive to earnings and operating surplus; • we may encounter delays in receiving regulatory approvals or may receive approvals that are subject to material conditions; 32 Table of Contents • we may encounter difficulties in integrating operations and systems; and • any additional debt we incur to finance an acquisition may impair our ability to service our existing debt. Limitations on our access to capital or the market for our common units will impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our ability to raise capital for acquisitions and other capital expenditures depends upon ready access to the capital markets. Historically, we have financed our acquisitions, and to a much lesser extent, expansions of our gathering systems by bank credit facilities and the proceeds of public and private debt and equity offerings of our common units and preferred units of our operating partnership. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we may be unable to execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions. Our debt levels and restrictions in our credit facility could limit our ability to fund operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. We will need a portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting the ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to unitholders. Our credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. If we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any fiscal quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive distributions for such prior periods in the future. Our distributions to our unitholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive such payments in the future. We may issue additional units, which may increase the risk of not having sufficient available cash to make distributions at prior per unit distribution levels. We have wide discretion to issue additional units, including units that rank senior to our common units as to quarterly cash distributions, on the terms and conditions established by our General Partner. The payment of distributions on these additional units may increase the risk that we will not be able to make distributions at our prior per unit distribution levels. To the extent new units are senior to our common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on the common units. Regulation of our gathering operations could increase our operating costs, decrease our revenues, or both. Currently we believe our gathering and processing of natural gas is exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. However, the implementation of new laws or policies, or changed interpretations of existing laws, could subject our gathering and processing operations to regulation by FERC under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act, or other laws. We expect that any such regulation could increase our costs, decrease our gross margin and cash flows, or both. 33 Table of Contents Even if our gathering and processing operations are not generally subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act, FERC regulation will still affect our business and the market for our products. FERC’s policies and practices affect a range of natural gas pipeline activities. Among these are FERC policies on interstate natural gas pipeline open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, environmental protection and market center promotion, which indirectly affect intrastate markets. FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. We cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Since federal law generally leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, state and local regulations may also affect our business. Matters subject to such regulation include conditions of access, rates, terms of service and safety. For example, our gathering lines are subject to ratable take, common purchaser, and similar statutes in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer, while ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with respect to rates or terms of service. Should a complaint be filed or regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission, Oklahoma Corporation Commission or Kansas Corporation Commission become more active, our revenues could decrease. Collectively, all of these statutes may restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or gather natural gas. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the DOT and state agencies could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. DOT and state agency regulations require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventative and mitigating actions. The cost of implementing integrity management program testing along certain segments of our pipeline should not have a material effect on our results of operations. This does not include the costs, if any, of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be necessary as a result of the testing program. Such costs could be substantial. Our midstream natural gas operations may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or a release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our gathering systems, plant and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, 34 Table of Contents requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, or requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil or criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury or property damage allegedly caused by the release of pollutants or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, it is possible that more stringent laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs, and the cost of any necessary remediation. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Our midstream natural gas operations may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from new environmental regulations related to climate change. Federal and state governments are considering and/or implementing measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of a greenhouse gas cap and trade program. As an alternative to the cap and trade program, the EPA may implement greenhouse gas reduction through traditional construction and operating permit programs. APL could be required to purchase and surrender allowances, either for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations or from combustion of fuels we process. In addition, our operations could face additional taxes and higher costs of doing business. Although we would not be impacted to a greater degree than other similarly situated gatherers and processors of natural gas or NGLs, a stringent greenhouse gas control program could result in a significant effect on our cost of doing business. Litigation or governmental regulation relating to environmental protection and operational safety may result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal and state environmental laws under which owners of natural gas pipelines can be liable for clean-up costs and penalties in connection with any pollution caused by their pipelines. We may also be held liable for clean-up costs resulting from pollution which occurred before our acquisition of a gathering system. In addition, we are subject to federal and state safety laws that dictate the type of pipeline, quality of pipe protection, depth of pipelines, methods of welding and other construction-related standards. Any violation of environmental, construction or safety laws could impose substantial liabilities and costs on us. We are also subject to the requirements of OSHA, and comparable state statutes. Any violation of OSHA could impose substantial costs on us. We cannot predict whether or in what form any new legislation or regulatory requirements might be enacted or adopted, nor can we predict our future costs of compliance. In general, we expect that new regulations would increase our operating costs and, possibly, require us to obtain additional capital to pay for improvements or other compliance actions necessitated by those regulations. 35 Table of Contents We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incidental to gathering and processing natural gas and NGLs. These hazards include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations; and • acts of terrorism directed at our pipeline infrastructure, production facilities and surrounding properties. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for some of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, our gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. Risks Related to Our Ownership Structure AHD has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. AHD owns and controls our General Partner. We do not have any employees and, subsequent to the AHD Transaction, rely solely on employees of AHD, who serve as our agents, including all of the senior managers who operate our business. A number of officers and employees of AHD also own interests in us. Conflicts of interest may arise between AHD, our General Partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts could include, among others, the following situations: • Employees of AHD who provide services to us may also devote time to the businesses of AHD in which we have no economic interest. If these separate activities are greater than our activities, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the employees who provide services to our General Partner, which could result in insufficient attention to the management and operation of our business. • Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as AHD, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to us. • Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates. 36 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest with AHD and its affiliates, including the foregoing factors, could exacerbate periods of lower or declining performance, or otherwise reduce our gross margin and cash flows. Our control of the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems is limited by provisions of the limited liability company operating agreements with Anadarko and, with respect to the Midkiff/Benedum system, the operation and expansion agreement with Pioneer. The managing member of each of the limited liability companies which owns the interests in the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems is our subsidiary. However, the consent of Anadarko is required for specified extraordinary transactions, such as admission of new members, engaging in transactions with our affiliates not approved by the company conflicts committee, incurring debt outside the ordinary course of business and disposing of company assets above specified thresholds. The Midkiff/Benedum system is also governed by an operation and expansion agreement with Pioneer which gives system owners having at least a 60% interest in the system the right to approve the annual operating budget and capital investment budget and to impose other limitations on the operation of the system. Thus, a holder of a greater than 40% interest in the system would effectively have a veto right over the operation of the system. Pioneer currently owns an approximate 27% interest in the system. Tax Risks of Unit Ownership If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for federal or state income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. We are currently treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualifying income is defined as income and gains derived from the exploration, development, mining or production, processing, refining, transportation (including pipelines transporting gas, oil, or products thereof), or the marketing of any mineral or natural resource (including fertilizer, geothermal energy, and timber). We may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to federal income tax. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal and/or state income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders 37 Table of Contents may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability, which results from the taxation of their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions and the allocation of losses, including depreciation deductions, to the unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their common units, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interest within a 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. The termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income for the year in which the termination occurs. Thus, if this occurs, the unitholder will be allocated an increased amount of federal taxable income for the year in which we are considered to be terminated as a percentage of the cash distributed to the unitholder with respect to that period. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do 38 Table of Contents not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We presently anticipate that substantially all of our income will be generated in Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Texas. Each of those states, except Texas, currently imposes a personal income tax. We may do business or own property in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. The IRS may challenge our tax treatment related to transfers of units, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any such contest will reduce cash available for distributions to our unitholders. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our positions. A court may not agree with some or all of our positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, we will bear the costs of any contest with the IRS thereby reducing the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and our public unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, we make many of the fair market value estimates of our assets ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. 39 Table of Contents A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 