ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business The amount of cash we generate depends, in part, on factors beyond our control. The amount of cash we generate may not be sufficient for us to pay distributions at the current distribution levels or at all in the future. Our ability to make cash distributions depends primarily on our cash flows. Cash distributions do not depend directly on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions may be made during periods when we record losses and may not be made during periods when we record profits. The actual amounts of cash we generate will depend upon numerous factors relating to our business, which may be beyond our control, including: • the demand for natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate; • the price of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate (including the volatility of such prices); • the amount of NGL content in the natural gas we process; • the volume of natural gas we gather; • efficiency of our gathering systems and processing plants; • expiration of significant contracts; • continued development of wells for connection to our gathering systems; • our ability to connect new wells to our gathering systems; • our ability to integrate newly-formed ventures or acquired businesses with our existing operations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability of fractionation capacity; • the expenses we incur in providing our gathering services; • the cost of acquisitions and capital improvements; • required principal and interest payments on our debt; • fluctuations in working capital; • prevailing economic conditions; • fuel conservation measures; • alternate fuel requirements; • the strength and financial resources of our competitors; 33 Table of Contents • the effectiveness of our commodity price risk management program and the creditworthiness of our derivatives counterparties; • governmental (including environmental and tax) laws and regulations; and • technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the sources of cash used to fund our acquisitions; • limitations on our access to capital or the market for our common units and notes; • our debt service requirements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner for the conduct of our business. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and is subject to prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow, or be able to borrow sufficient funds, to service our indebtedness or to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds to service our indebtedness, we may be required to sell assets or equity, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you we will be able to refinance our indebtedness, sell assets or equity, or borrow more funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by the financial markets and related effects in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the effects of a financial crisis may include a lower level of economic activity and/or increased volatility in energy prices. This may result in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas, and has previously resulted in a reduction in drilling activity in our service area and in wells connected to our pipeline system being shut in by their operators until prices improved. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and our ability to fund capital expenditures and, in turn, may impact the cash we have available to fund our operations, pay required debt service and make distributions to our unitholders. 34 Table of Contents Instability in the financial markets may increase the cost of capital while reducing the availability of funds. This may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund our operations. We rely on our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our existing credit facility to execute our growth strategy and to meet our financial commitments and other short-term liquidity needs. We cannot be certain additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could limit our access to liquidity needed for our business and impact our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until we can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs. Such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing our operations to lower expenses, and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. We may be unable to execute our growth strategy, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact our business. A weakening of the current economic situation could have an adverse impact on our lenders, producers, key suppliers or other customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Market conditions could also impact our derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow and ability to make required debt service payments and pay distributions could be impacted. The uncertainty and volatility surrounding the global financial crisis may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. We are affected by the volatility of prices for natural gas, NGL and crude oil products. We derive a majority of our gross margin from POP and Keep-Whole contracts. As a result, our income depends to a significant extent upon the prices at which we buy and sell natural gas and at which we sell NGLs and condensate. Average estimated unhedged 2015 market prices for NGLs, natural gas and crude oil, based upon NYMEX forward price curves as of December 16, 2014, were $0.53 per gallon, $3.58 per MMBTU and $58.19 per barrel, respectively. A 10% change in these prices would change our forecasted net income for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2015 by approximately $14.5 million. Additionally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly impact our profitability since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations, and could cause operators of wells currently connected to our pipeline system or that we expect will be connected to our system to shut in their production until prices improve, thereby affecting the volume of gas we gather and process. Historically, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil have been subject to significant volatility in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for these products, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, including those we describe in “—The amount of cash we generate depends, in part, on factors beyond our control,” above. West Texas Intermediate crude oil prices traded in a range of $53.27 per barrel to $107.26 per barrel in 2014, while Henry Hub natural gas prices have traded in a range of $2.89 per MMBTU to $6.15 per MMBTU, during the same time period. We expect this volatility to continue. This volatility may cause our gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. Our commodity price risk management strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all the throughput volumes. Moreover, derivative instruments are subject to inherent risks, which we describe in “–Our commodity price risk management strategies may fail to protect us and could reduce our gross margin and cash flow.” 35 Table of Contents Our commodity price risk management strategies may fail to protect us and could reduce our gross margin and cash flow. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative contracts related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs with the intent of reducing the volatility of our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. To the extent we protect our commodity prices using derivative contracts we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices were to change in our favor. Our commodity price risk management activity may fail to protect or could harm us because, among other things: • entering into derivative instruments can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • available derivative instruments may not correspond directly with the risks against which we seek protection; • price relationship between the physical transaction and the derivative transaction could change; • the anticipated physical transaction could be different than projected due to changes in contracts, lower production volumes or other operational impacts, resulting in possible losses on the derivative instrument, which are not offset by income on the anticipated physical transaction; and • the party owing money in the derivative transaction may default on its obligation to pay. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could negatively impact our business. We have historically experienced minimal collection issues with our counterparties; however our revenue and receivables are highly concentrated in a few key customers and therefore we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers. In an attempt to reduce this risk, we have established credit limits for each counterparty and we attempt to limit our credit risk by obtaining letters of credit or other appropriate forms of security. Nonetheless, we have key customers whose credit risk cannot realistically be otherwise mitigated. Furthermore, although we evaluate the creditworthiness of our counterparties, we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in their creditworthiness and overall financial condition, which could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment or other default under our contracts and other arrangements with them. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could impact our cash flow and ability to make required debt service payments and pay distributions. Due to our lack of asset diversification, negative developments in our operations could reduce our ability to fund our operations, pay required debt service and make distributions to our common unitholders. We rely primarily on the revenues generated from our gathering, processing and treating operations, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, NGLs and condensate. Due to our lack of asset-type diversification, a negative development in this business could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. 36 Table of Contents The amount of natural gas we gather will decline over time unless we are able to attract new wells to connect to our gathering systems. Production of natural gas from a well generally declines over time until the well can no longer economically produce natural gas and is plugged and abandoned. Failure to connect new wells to our gathering systems could, therefore, result in the amount of natural gas we gather declining substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause us to abandon one or more of our gathering systems and, possibly, cease operations. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include our success in contracting for existing wells not committed to other systems, the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems and our ability to attract natural gas producers away from our competitors’ gathering systems. Over time, fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. A decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering, processing and treating facilities could result if there is a sustained decline in natural gas, crude oil and/or NGL prices, which, in turn, would lead to a reduced utilization of these assets. The decline in the credit markets, the lack of availability of credit, debt or equity financing and the decline in commodity prices may result in a reduction of producers’ exploratory drilling. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our service areas, the amount of reserves underlying wells that connect to our systems and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, drilling costs, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. In a low price environment, producers may determine to shut in wells already connected to our systems until prices improve. Because our operating costs are fixed to a significant degree, a reduction in the natural gas volumes we gather or process would result in a reduction in our gross margin and cash flow. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in reduced volumes available for us to gather and process. Various federal and state initiatives are underway to regulate, or further investigate, the environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, a process that involves the pressurized injection of water, chemicals and other substances into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon production. The adoption of any future federal, state or local laws or regulations imposing additional permitting, disclosure or regulatory obligations related to, or otherwise restricting or increasing costs regarding the use of, hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult to drill certain oil and natural gas wells. As a result, the volume of natural gas we gather and process from producer wells in our service area that use hydraulic fracturing could be substantially reduced, which could adversely affect our gross margin and cash flow. We currently depend on certain key producers for their supply of natural gas; the loss of any of these key producers could reduce our revenues. During 2014, Atoka Midstream, LLC; Chesapeake Energy Corporation; COG Operating, LLC; DCP; Endeavor Energy Resources L.P.; Laredo Petroleum Inc.; Marathon Oil Company; MarkWest; Merit Management Partners; Parsley Energy, L.P.; Pioneer; SandRidge; Statoil; Talisman; Vanguard Natural Resources, LLC; and XTO accounted for a significant amount of our natural gas supply. If these producers reduce the volumes of natural gas they supply to us, our gross margin and cash flow could be reduced unless we obtain comparable supplies of natural gas from other producers. 37 Table of Contents We may face increased competition in the future. We face competition for well connections. • DCP Midstream Partners, LLC; Enable Midstream Partners, L.P.; Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.; Kinder Morgan, Inc.; and ONEOK Partners L.P. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our SouthOK service areas. • Caballo Energy, LLC; DCP Midstream Partners, LLC; Lumen Midstream Partners, LLC; Mustang Fuel Corporation; ONEOK Partners L.P.; SemGas, L.P.; and Superior Pipeline Company, LLC operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our WestOK service area. • DCP Midstream Partners, LLC; Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.; Enterprise Products Partners, L.P.; Kinder Morgan, Inc.; and Southcross Energy Partners, L.P. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our SouthTX service area. • DCP Midstream Partners, LLC; Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.; Enlink Midstream Partners, LP; Southern Union Company; Targa Resources Partners L.P.; and West Texas Gas, Inc. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in our WestTX service area. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. If these companies become more active in our service areas, we may not be able to compete successfully with them in securing new well connections or retaining current well connections. In addition, customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering and processing systems in lieu of using those operated by us. If we do not compete successfully, the amount of natural gas we gather and process will decrease, reducing our gross margin and cash flow. The amount of natural gas we gather or process may be reduced if the intrastate and interstate pipelines to which we deliver natural gas or NGLs cannot or will not accept the gas. Our gathering systems principally serve as intermediate transportation facilities between wells connected to our systems and the intrastate or interstate pipelines to which we deliver natural gas. Our plant tailgate pipelines, including the Driver Residue Pipeline and the APL SouthTex Transmission Section 311 pipeline, provide essential links between our processing plants and intrastate and interstate pipelines that move natural gas to market. We deliver NGLs to intrastate or interstate pipelines at the tailgates of the plants. If one or more of the pipelines or fractionation facilities to which we deliver natural gas and NGLs has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise cannot or do not accept natural gas or NGLs from us, and we cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines or fractionation facilities, the amount of natural gas we gather and process may be reduced. Since our revenues depend upon the quantities of natural gas we gather and natural gas and NGLs we sell or transport, this could result in a material reduction in our gross margin and cash flow. Failure of the natural gas or NGLs we deliver to meet the specifications of interconnecting pipelines could result in curtailments by the pipelines. The pipelines to which we deliver natural gas and NGLs typically establish specifications for the products they are willing to accept. These specifications include requirements such as hydrocarbon dew point, compositions, temperature, and foreign content (such as water, sulfur, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide), and these specifications can vary by product or pipeline. If the total mix of a product that we deliver to a pipeline fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the pipeline may refuse to accept all or a part of the products scheduled for delivery to it or may invoice us for the costs to 38 Table of Contents handle the out-of-specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that product or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming natural gas causing the products to be out of specification, potentially reducing our through-put volumes or revenues. The success of our operations depends upon our ability to continually find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply. Our agreements with most producers with which we do business generally do not require them to dedicate significant amounts of undeveloped acreage to our systems. While we do have some undeveloped acreage dedicated on our systems, most notably with our partner Pioneer on our WestTX system, we do not have assured sources to provide us with new wells to connect to our gathering systems. Failure to connect new wells to our operations, as described in “–The amount of natural gas we gather will decline over time unless we are able to attract new wells to connect to our gathering systems,” above, could reduce our gross margin and cash flow. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, our cash flow could be reduced. We do not own all the land on which our pipelines are constructed. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties. In some cases, these rights expire at a specified time. Therefore we are subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flow could be reduced. A change in the regulations related to a state’s use of eminent domain could inhibit our ability to secure rights-of way for future pipeline construction projects. Certain states where we operate are considering the adoption of laws and regulations that would limit or eliminate a state’s ability to exercise eminent domain over private property. This, in turn, could make it more difficult or costly for us to secure rights-of-way for future pipeline construction and other projects. Further, states may amend their procedures for certain entities within the state to use eminent domain. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the risk that reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • delays in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or third party consents; • the imposition of conditions on any acquisition by a regulatory authority; 39 Table of Contents • an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • increased demands on existing personnel; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely impact our future growth and our ability to make or increase distributions. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Our integration of previously independent operations, with our own can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems with existing systems include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating pipeline safety-related records and procedures; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Our investment and the additional overhead costs we incur to grow our business may not deliver the expected incremental volume or cash flow. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flow. 40 Table of Contents Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could impair our results of operations and financial condition. We are actively growing our business through the construction of new assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and facilities, and the construction of new assets, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. The Endangered Species Act restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. If endangered species are located in areas where we propose to construct new gathering or processing facilities, such work could be prohibited or delayed or expensive mitigation may be required. Any projects we undertake may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a gathering system, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increase in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we are constructing facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which growth may not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for, and development of, natural gas reserves, we often do not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area before constructing facilities in the area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, the estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could impair our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our actual revenues from a project could materially differ from expectations as a result of the volatility in the price of natural gas, the NGL content of the natural gas processed and other economic factors described in this section. We continue to expand the natural gas gathering systems surrounding our facilities in order to maximize plant throughput. In addition to the risks discussed above, expected incremental revenue from recent projects could be reduced or delayed due to the following reasons: • difficulties in obtaining capital for additional construction and operating costs; • difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory or third-party consents; • additional construction and operating costs exceeding budget estimates; • revenue being less than expected due to lower commodity prices or lower demand; • difficulties in obtaining consistent supplies of natural gas; and • terms in operating agreements that are not favorable to us. We may not be able to execute our growth strategy successfully. Our strategy contemplates substantial growth through both the acquisition of other gathering systems and processing assets and the expansion of our existing gathering systems and processing assets. Our growth strategy through acquisitions involves numerous risks, including: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; • we may not be able to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms for various reasons, including limitations on access to capital and increased competition for a limited pool of suitable assets; 41 Table of Contents • our costs in seeking to make acquisitions may be material, even if we cannot complete any acquisition we have pursued; • irrespective of estimates at the time we make an acquisition, the acquisition may prove to be dilutive to earnings and operating surplus; • we may encounter delays in receiving regulatory approvals or may receive approvals that are subject to material conditions; • we may encounter difficulties in integrating operations and systems; and • any additional debt we incur to finance an acquisition may impair our ability to service our existing debt. Limitations on our access to capital or the market for our common units could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our ability to raise capital for acquisitions and other capital expenditures depends upon ready access to the capital markets. Historically, we have financed our acquisitions and expansions through bank credit facilities and the proceeds of public and private debt and equity offerings. If we are unable to access the capital markets, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy. Our debt levels and restrictions in our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes could limit our ability to fund operations and pay required debt service. We have a significant amount of debt. We will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures; selling assets; restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness; or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants limiting the ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to unitholders. Our revolving credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and may limit our ability to capitalize on acquisitions and other business opportunities. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our unit price. Credit markets are continuing to experience low interest rates. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units. A rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity or to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes and could impact our ability to make cash distributions. 42 Table of Contents An impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. In connection with our acquisitions, we have recorded goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. If we determine an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. Although we have not experienced any other events or circumstances that indicate the carrying amounts of our other intangible assets and goodwill were impaired, we could experience future events that result in impairments. An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill and intangible assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results and could have an adverse impact on our ability to satisfy the financial ratios or other covenants under our existing or future debt agreements. Regulation of our gathering operations could increase our operating costs; decrease our revenue; or both. Our gathering and processing of natural gas is exempt from regulation by FERC, under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. While gas transmission activities conducted through our plant tailgate pipelines, such as the Driver Residue Pipeline and the SouthTX Residue Pipeline, are subject to FERC’s Natural Gas Act, FERC may limit the extent to which it regulates those activities. The way we operate, the implementation of new laws or policies (including changed interpretations of existing laws) or a change in facts relating to our plant tailgate pipeline operations could subject our operations to more extensive regulation by FERC under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act, or other laws. Any such regulation could increase our costs; decrease our gross margin and cash flow, or both. Even if our gathering and processing of natural gas is not generally subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act, FERC regulation will still affect our business and the market for our products. FERC’s policies and practices affect a range of natural gas pipeline activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate natural gas pipeline open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, environmental protection and market center promotion, which indirectly affect intrastate markets. FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. We cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Since federal law generally leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, state and local regulations may also affect our business. Matters subject to such regulation include access, rates, terms of service and safety. For example, our gathering lines are subject to ratable take, common purchaser, and similar statutes in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer, while ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with respect to rates or terms of service. Should a complaint be filed with the Kansas Corporation Commission, Oklahoma Corporation Commission, or Texas Railroad 43 Table of Contents Commission, or should one or more of these agencies become more active in regulating our industry, our revenues could decrease. Collectively, all of these statutes may restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or gather natural gas. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the DOT and state agencies could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. DOT and state agency regulations require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventative and mitigating actions. While we do not believe the cost of implementing integrity management program testing along segments of our pipeline will have a material effect on our results of operations, the costs of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program could be substantial. Our midstream natural gas operations could incur significant costs if PHMSA adopts more stringent regulations governing our business. On January 3, 2012, the Job Act was signed into law. The Act directs the Secretary of Transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemakings. These rulemakings will be conducted by PHMSA. Since passage of the Job Act, PHMSA has published several notices of proposed rulemaking which propose a number of changes to regulations governing the safety of gas transmission pipelines, gathering lines and related facilities, including increased safety requirements and increased penalties. The adoption of regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards to gathering lines could require us to install new or modified safety controls, incur additional capital expenditures, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis. Such requirements could result in our incurrence of increased operational costs that could be significant; or if we fail to, or are unable to, comply, we may be subject to administrative, civil and criminal enforcement actions, including assessment of monetary penalties or suspension of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our midstream natural gas operations may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or a release of regulated materials into the environment by us or the producers in our service areas. The operations of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities, as well as the operations of the producers in our service areas, are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business 44 Table of Contents activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we, and our producers, dispose of substances, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of regulated substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations including releases of regulated substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from (1) environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages; (2) claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage; and (3) fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including those relating to emissions from production, processing and transmission activities, could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Producers in our service areas may curtail or abandon exploration and production activities if any of these regulations cause their operations to become uneconomical. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Climate change legislation or regulations at the international, federal and state levels restricting emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our midstream services. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes, the EPA adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that require entities that produce certain gases to inventory, monitor and report such gases. Additionally, the EPA adopted rules to regulate GHG emissions through traditional major source construction and operating permit programs. The EPA confirmed the permitting thresholds established in a 2010 rule in July 2012. These permitting programs require consideration of and, if deemed necessary, implementation of best available control technology to reduce GHG emissions. In addition there are several international and state level initiatives and proposals addressing domestic and global climate issues. As a result, our operations could face additional costs for emissions control and higher costs of doing business. Litigation or governmental regulation relating to environmental protection and operational safety may result in substantial costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal and state environmental laws under which owners of natural gas pipelines can be liable for clean-up costs and fines in connection with any pollution caused by their pipelines. We may also be held liable for clean-up costs resulting from pollution that occurred before our acquisition of a gathering system. In addition, we are subject to federal and state safety laws that dictate the type of pipeline, quality of pipe protection, depth of pipelines, methods of welding and other construction-related standards, as well as certain operations and maintenance practices. Any violation of environmental, construction or safety laws could impose substantial liabilities and costs on us. 45 Table of Contents We are also subject to the requirements of OSHA, and comparable state statutes. Any violation of OSHA could impose substantial costs on us. Oil and gas operators can be impacted by litigation brought against the agencies which regulate the oil and gas industry. The outcomes of such activities can impact our operations. We cannot predict whether or in what form any new litigation or regulatory requirements might be enacted or adopted, nor can we predict our costs of compliance. In general, we expect new regulations would increase our operating costs and, possibly, require us to obtain additional capital to pay for improvements or other compliance actions necessitated by those regulations. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incidental to gathering, processing and treating natural gas and NGLs. These hazards include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations; • nuisance and other landowner claims arising from our operations; and • acts of terrorism directed at our pipeline infrastructure, production facilities and surrounding properties. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for our insurance policies could escalate in the future. Our existing insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs, or liabilities and we could suffer losses in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Moreover, in some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers require broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability, for which we were not fully insured, our gross margin and cash flow would be materially reduced. Catastrophic weather events may curtail operations at, or cause closure of, any of our processing plants, which could harm our business. Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme temperatures. If operations at any of our processing plants were to be curtailed, or closed, whether due to natural catastrophe, accident, environmental regulation, periodic maintenance, or for any other reason, our ability to process natural gas from the relevant gathering system and, as a result, our ability to extract and sell NGLs, would be harmed. If this curtailment or stoppage were to extend for more than a short period, our gross margin and cash flow could be materially reduced. 46 Table of Contents Disruption due to political uncertainties, civil unrest or the threat of terrorist attacks has resulted in increased costs, and future war or risk of war may adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to raise capital. Political uncertainties, civil unrest and terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks cause instability in the global financial markets and other industries, including the energy industry. Such disruptions could adversely affect our operations and the markets for our products and services, including through increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that our infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, and transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets, or indirect casualties, of an act of terror. In addition, instabilities in the financial and insurance markets caused by such disruptions may make it more difficult for us to access capital and may increase insurance premiums or make it difficult to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if we lose key management or operational personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of our General Partner’s executive officers. The departure of any of these executive officers could have a significant negative impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Additionally, our ability to hire, train, and retain qualified personnel will continue to be important and will become more challenging as we grow. Our ability to grow and to continue our current level of service to our customers will be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. Risks Relating to Our Ownership Structure ATLS and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. ATLS owns and controls our General Partner and also has a 5.5% limited partner interest in us. We do not have any employees and rely solely on employees of ATLS and its affiliates, who serve as our agents, including all the senior managers who operate our business. A number of officers and employees of ATLS also own interests in us. Conflicts of interest may arise between ATLS, our General Partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Employees of ATLS who provide services to us also devote time to the businesses of ATLS in which we have no economic interest. If these separate activities are greater than our activities, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the employees who provide services to our General Partner, which could result in insufficient attention to the management and operation of our business. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires ATLS to pursue a future business strategy that favors us or to use our gathering or processing services. ATLS’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the unitholders of ATLS. 47 Table of Contents • Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as ATLS, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to us. • Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates. Conflicts of interest with ATLS and its affiliates, including the foregoing factors, could exacerbate periods of lower or declining performance, or otherwise reduce our gross margin and cash flow. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner may be substantial. We reimburse ATLS, our General Partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of ATLS, for all expenses they incur on our behalf. Our General Partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, ATLS provides us with services for which we are charged reasonable fees as determined by ATLS in its sole discretion. The reimbursement of expenses or payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and pay required debt service. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our General Partner or the managing board of our General Partner and have no right to elect our General Partner or the managing board of our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The managing board of our General Partner is chosen by ATLS, the owner of 100% of the equity of our General Partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our General Partner from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owners of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the managing board and officers of our General Partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the managing board and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders, including units that rank senior to our common units as to quarterly cash distributions. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; and • the market price of the common units may decline. 48 Table of Contents We own and operate certain of our systems through joint ventures, and our control of such systems is limited by provisions of the agreements we have entered into with our joint venture partners and by our percentage ownership in such joint venture entities. Certain of our joint ventures are structured so that a subsidiary of ours is the managing member of the limited liability company that owns the system being operated. However, the operational agreements applicable to such joint venture entities generally require consent of our joint venture partner for specified extraordinary transactions, such as admission of new members; engaging in transactions with our affiliates not approved by the company conflicts committee; incurring debt outside the ordinary course of business; and disposing of company assets above specified thresholds. In addition, certain of our systems are operated by joint venture entities that we do not operate, or in which we do not have an ownership stake that permits us to control the business activities of the entity. We have limited ability to influence the business decisions of such joint venture entities, and we may be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from the operation and could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations, which could adversely affect our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. Tax Risks Relating to Unit Ownership If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for federal or state income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. We are currently treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualifying income is defined as income and gains derived from the exploration, development, mining or production, processing, refining, transportation (including pipelines transporting gas, oil, or products thereof), or the marketing of any mineral or natural resource (including fertilizer, geothermal energy, and timber). We may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to federal income tax. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in our anticipated cash flows, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current tax law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal and/or state income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced. Furthermore, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not 49 Table of Contents be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income, adversely affect an investment in our common units or otherwise negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability, which results from the taxation of their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions and the allocation of losses, including depreciation deductions, to the unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their common units, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interest within a 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a 12-month 50 Table of Contents period. The termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income for the year in which the termination occurs. Thus, if this occurs, the unitholder will be allocated an increased amount of federal taxable income for the year in which we are considered to be terminated as a percentage of the cash distributed to the unitholder with respect to that period. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We presently anticipate substantially all of our income will be generated in Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. Kansas and Oklahoma currently imposes a personal income tax. We may do business or own property in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. The IRS may challenge our tax treatment related to transfers of units, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any such contest will reduce cash available for distributions to our unitholders. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our positions. A court may not agree with some or all of our positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, we will bear the costs of any contest with the IRS thereby reducing the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and our public unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, we make many of the fair market value estimates of our assets ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such 51 Table of Contents unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Risks related to the Merger and ATLS Merger Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger may not be realized. TRP and we have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the Merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on TRP’s ability to successfully combine and integrate our businesses. It is possible the pending nature of the Merger and/or the integration process could result in the loss of key employees; higher than expected costs; diversion of TRP’s and our management’s attention; increased competition; the disruption of either company’s ongoing businesses; or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other business partners or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger. If TRP experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management’s attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of us and TRP during this transition period and for an undetermined period after completion of the Merger on the combined company. In addition, the actual cost savings and other benefits of the Merger could be less than anticipated. 52 Table of Contents The market price of TRP common units after the Merger will continue to fluctuate and may be affected by factors different from those affecting our common units currently. Upon completion of the Merger, holders of our common units will become holders of TRP common units. The market price of TRP common units may fluctuate significantly following consummation of the Merger and holders of our common units could lose some or all of the value of their investment in TRP common units. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent times, which could have a material adverse effect on the market for, or liquidity of, the TRP common units, regardless of TRP’s actual operating performance. In addition, TRP’s business differs in important respects from ours, and accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of TRP common units after the completion of the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of our operations and TRP’s operations. Sales of TRP common units before and after the completion of the Merger may cause the market price of TRP common units to fall. The issuance of new TRP common units in connection with the Merger could have the effect of depressing the market price for TRP common units. In addition, holders of our common units may decide not to hold the TRP common units they will receive in the Merger. Such sales of TRP common units could have the effect of depressing the market price for TRP common units and may take place promptly following the Merger. TRC, TRP and we are subject to litigation related to the Merger and ATLS Merger. TRC, TRP and we have been subject to litigation related to the Merger and ATLS Merger (together the “Atlas Mergers”). Between October and December 2014, five of our public unitholders filed putative class action lawsuits, one of which has subsequently been voluntarily dismissed, against us, our General Partner, its managers, ATLS, TRC, TRP, TRP GP and MLP Merger Sub. In October and November 2014, two ATLS public unitholders filed putative class action lawsuits, one of which has subsequently been voluntarily dismissed, against ATLS, ATLS GP, its managers, TRC and GP Merger Sub. In January 2015, a public shareholder of TRC filed a putative class action and derivative suit against TRC, its directors and various other parties. The plaintiffs alleged a variety of causes of action challenging the Atlas Mergers. These matters, except for the January 2015 lawsuit and the two lawsuits that have been voluntarily dismissed, were settled, subject to court approval, pursuant to memoranda of understanding executed in February 2015. These memoranda of understanding are conditioned upon, among other things, the execution of appropriate stipulations of settlement. The stipulations of settlement will be subject to customary conditions, including, among other things, judicial approval of the proposed settlements contemplated by the memoranda of understanding. There can be no assurance that the parties will ultimately enter into stipulations of settlement, that the court will approve the settlements, that the settlements will not be terminated according to their terms or that some unitholders will not opt-out of the settlements. It is possible that additional claims beyond those that have already been filed will be brought by the current plaintiffs, members of the putative classes they purport to represent or by others in an effort to enjoin the Atlas Mergers or seek monetary relief. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, or others, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve the lawsuits. An unfavorable resolution of any such litigation surrounding the Atlas Mergers could delay or prevent their consummation. In addition, the costs of defending the litigation, even if resolved in TRC, TRP or our favor, could be substantial and such litigation could distract TRC, TRP and us from pursuing the consummation of the Atlas Mergers and other potentially beneficial business opportunities. For additional information regarding this litigation, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 