Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses in prior years. During 2009, our comprehensive loss was approximately $52.5 million and we used $50.8 million of cash in operating activities. We may suffer significant additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We expect to incur losses unless and until such time as one or more of our properties generates sufficient revenue to fund our continuing operations. The future performance of our business will depend upon our ability to identify, acquire and develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Success will depend upon the ability to acquire working and revenue interests in properties upon which oil and gas reserves are ultimately discovered in commercial quantities, and the ability to develop prospects that contain additional proven oil and gas reserves to the point of production. Without successful acquisition and exploration activities, we will not be able to develop additional oil and gas reserves or generate additional revenues. There are no assurances that additional oil and gas reserves will be identified or acquired on acceptable terms, or that oil and gas reserves will be discovered in sufficient quantities to enable us to recover our exploration and development costs or sustain our business. The successful acquisition and development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors. Such assessments are inherently uncertain. In addition, no assurance can be given that our exploration and development activities will result in the discovery of any reserves. Operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of lack of adequate capital and other factors, such as lack of availability of rigs and other equipment, title problems, weather, compliance with governmental regulations or price controls, mechanical difficulties, or unusual or unexpected formations, pressures and or work interruptions. In addition, the costs of exploration and development may materially exceed our initial estimates. 11 Table of Contents We will require significant capital to continue our exploration and development activities beyond December 2010. We recently expanded our planned 2010 drilling program. We may not have sufficient funds to conduct our exploration and development activities beyond December 2010. If we are unable to finance our planned exploration and development activities on acceptable terms or at all, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. Future cash flows and the availability of debt or equity financing will be subject to a number of variables, such as: • the success of our prospects in Romania, Morocco and Turkey; • success in finding and commercially producing reserves; and • prices of natural gas and oil. Debt financing could lead to: • a substantial portion of operating cash flow being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest; • our company being more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns; and • restrictions on our operations. We might not be able to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If sufficient capital resources are not available, we might be forced to curtail developmental and exploratory drilling and other activities or be forced to sell some assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties in combining the operations of Incremental and EOT with our operations may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from the acquisitions. There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with our acquisitions of Incremental and EOT. The acquisitions are expected to provide substantial benefits, including among other things, expanding our rig fleet and increasing our workforce of highly qualified field staff, engineers and geologists in Turkey, one of our target countries. Achieving such expected benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • whether the operations of Incremental and EOT are integrated with us in an efficient and effective manner; • difficulty transitioning customers and other business relationships to our company; • problems unifying management of a combined company; • loss of key employees from our existing or acquired businesses; and • intensified competition from other companies seeking to expand sales and market share during the integration period. Failure to achieve these benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy from the development and operation of our existing business that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses, if not corrected, could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting. This report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management. In addition, the report must contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control over financial reporting. We have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 related to our acquisition and integration of Incremental. Failure to have effective internal controls could lead to a misstatement of our financial statements. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial statements, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the price of our common shares could decrease and our ability to obtain additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be adversely affected. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities. We intend to take further action to remediate the material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, we can give no assurances that the measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Our secured credit facility contains various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business and can lead to an event of default that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our senior secured credit facility with Standard Bank, Plc and BNP Paribas (Suisse) SA may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our credit facility contains various covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens; 12 Table of Contents • enter into any hedge agreement for speculative purposes; • engage in business other than as an oil and gas exploration and production company; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; or • enter into any merger, consolidation or amalgamation. In addition, the credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests and to maintain commodity price hedge agreements, as described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Senior Secured Credit Facility.” Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants and financial tests and ratios required by the credit facility and could result in a default under the credit facility. An event of default under the credit facility includes, among other events, breach of certain covenants and obligations, our bankruptcy or insolvency, and failure to meet the required financial tests and ratios. In the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency, all amounts payable under the credit facility become immediately due and payable. In the event of any other default under our credit facility, the lenders would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding. Moreover, in the event of a default we would lose the ability to draw on, and the lenders would have the option to terminate, any obligation to make further extensions of credit under the credit facility. In addition, in the event of a default under the credit facility, which is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Borrowers, the lenders could proceed to foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of an acceleration of our indebtedness or a foreclosure on all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrowers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Global financial conditions have been subject to increased volatility. This may impact our ability to obtain equity, debt or bank financing in the future and may adversely impact our operations. Current global financial conditions have been subject to increased volatility and numerous commercial and financial enterprises have either gone into bankruptcy or creditor protection or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. Access to public financing has been negatively impacted by sub-prime mortgage defaults, the liquidity crisis affecting the asset-backed commercial paper and collateralized debt obligation markets, massive investment losses by banks with resultant recapitalization efforts and deterioration in the global economy. These factors may impact our ability to obtain equity, debt or bank financing on terms commercially reasonable to us, if at all. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. If these increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, our operations could be adversely impacted and the trading price of our securities could continue to be adversely affected. Banks have been adversely affected by the worldwide economic crisis and have severely curtailed existing liquidity lines, increased pricing and introduced new and tighter borrowing restrictions to corporate borrowers, with extremely limited access to new facilities or for new borrowers. These factors could negatively impact our ability to access liquidity needed for our business in the longer term. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of Mr. Mitchell, Scott C. Larsen, president, Matthew McCann, chief executive officer, and Gary Mize, chief operating officer. The loss of any of Messrs. Mitchell, Larsen, McCann or Mize could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on Messrs. Mitchell, McCann or Mize. We may experience difficulty staffing our drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other services equipment. We have a limited number of employees and will need to staff our drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other services equipment, and to add staff to other departments. We may experience difficulty in finding a sufficient number of experienced crews to work on our drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other services equipment, and in finding experienced staff in other departments to complete the work required. 13 Table of Contents Our contract drilling operations will depend on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Our contract drilling operations will depend on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration and production in our operating markets. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of that activity. Because oil and natural gas prices are volatile, the level of exploration and production activity can also be volatile. Lower oil and natural gas prices may depress our level of exploration and production activity. Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends on the success of our exploration, development and production activities in each of our prospects. These activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that we will be unable to economically produce our reserves or be able to find commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project unprofitable. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or prevent drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • pipeline and processing interruptions or unavailability; • title problems; • adverse weather conditions; • lack of market demand for natural gas and oil; • delays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; and • declines in natural gas and oil prices. Our future drilling activities might not be successful, and drilling success rates overall or within a particular area could decline. We could incur losses by drilling unproductive wells. Shut-in wells, curtailed production and other production interruptions may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited current production. We have limited current production. Substantially all of our crude oil production is concentrated in the Selmo field in Turkey. TPAO, a Turkish government-owned oil and gas company, and TUPRAS, a privately-owned oil refinery in Turkey, purchase all of our crude oil production from the Selmo field. In addition, substantially all of our natural gas production will be concentrated in the Edirne field when our wells in the Edirne field come online, which we expect to occur in April 2010. AKSA, a natural gas distributor in Turkey, has agreed to purchase all of our gas production from the Edirne field. If any of these companies fails to purchase our production, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could experience labor disputes that could disrupt our business in the future. As of March 15, 2010, approximately 65 of our employees at one of our Turkish subsidiaries are represented by collective bargaining agreements with the Turkish Employers Association of Chemical, Oil and Plastic Industries (KIPLAS) and the Petroleum, Chemical and Rubber Workers Union of Turkey (PETROL-IS). The collective bargaining agreements expire January 31, 2012. Potential work disruptions from labor disputes could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our operations are primarily conducted in Morocco, Romania and Turkey and we are subject to political, economic and other risks and uncertainties in these countries. Due to our international operations, we are subject to the following issues and uncertainties that can affect our operations adversely: • the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; • laws and policies of the United States and of the other countries in which we operate affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; • the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and • the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. Acts of violence, terrorist attacks or civil unrest in Turkey could adversely affect our business. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from the Selmo oil field in southeastern Turkey. In addition, we have plans for substantial exploration activities in Turkey and expect to begin producing gas from the Thrace Basin in northwestern Turkey in April 2010. Recently, areas of Turkey have experienced political, social or economic problems, terrorist attacks, insurgencies or civil unrest. If any of these events or conditions occurs, we may be unable to access the locations where we conduct operations. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel and our operations. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel and operations in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors or our operations could be disrupted, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We could be assessed for Canadian federal tax as a result of our recent continuance under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda. For Canadian tax purposes, we are deemed, immediately before the completion of our continuance under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, to have disposed of each property owned by us for proceeds equal to the fair market value of that property, and will be subject to tax on any resulting net income. In addition, we are required to pay a special “branch tax” equal to 25% of any excess of the fair market value of our property over the “paid-up capital” (as defined in the Income Tax Act (Canada)) of our outstanding common shares and our liabilities. Management, together with its professional advisors, will determine the fair market value of our property and the paid-up capital of our common shares for these purposes. Management does not anticipate that the deemed disposition of our assets at fair market value will result in any material adverse Canadian income tax consequences to us and believes that the paid-up capital of our common shares and our liabilities exceeds the fair market value of our property resulting in no “branch tax” being payable. However, our final determination of the fair market value of our property may be higher than currently anticipated or the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) may not accept our determination of the fair market value of our property. In the event that our final determination or CRA’s determination of fair market value is significantly higher than currently anticipated and such determination is final, we may be subject to material amounts of tax resulting from the deemed disposition. We are involved in litigation over the ownership of a portion of the surface rights at the Selmo oil field in Turkey. Substantially all of our 2009 revenue was generated from the sale of oil produced from the Selmo oil field in Turkey. Our subsidiary, Incremental, has been involved in litigation with persons who claim ownership of a portion of the surface rights of the Selmo field, which encompasses almost all of our production wells. We and the Turkish government are vigorously defending these cases. Although the litigation does not affect our ownership of the Selmo production license, if this litigation is not resolved in our favor, our operations on the affected portions of the Selmo oil field could be materially disrupted. A material disruption to our operations at Selmo could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Industry Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves that we may report. In order to prepare these estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves that we may report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our reserves will ultimately be produced or that our proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our reserves. Investors should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate. 16 Table of Contents We may not correctly evaluate reserve data or the exploitation potential of properties as we engage in our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our future success will depend on the success of our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our decisions to purchase, develop or otherwise exploit properties or prospects will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our estimates regarding reserves and production resulting from the acquisitions of Incremental and EOT and our exploration and development activities may prove to be incorrect, which could significantly reduce our income and our ability to generate cash needed to fund our capital program and other working capital requirements in the longer term. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, which would reduce our cash flows and income. In general, production from natural gas and oil properties declines over time as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we are not successful in our exploration and development activities or in acquiring properties containing reserves, our reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced. Our natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our ability to economically find, develop or acquire reserves in commercial quantities. To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced, either by a decrease in prevailing prices for natural gas and oil or an increase in finding and development costs, and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired. Even with sufficient available capital, our future exploration and development activities may not result in additional reserves, and we might not be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices may adversely affect our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are substantially dependent upon the prevailing prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil. Lower natural gas and oil prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. Historically, natural gas and oil prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. A decrease in natural gas or oil prices will not only reduce revenues and profits, but will also reduce the quantities of reserves that are commercially recoverable and may result in charges to earnings for impairment of the value of these assets. If natural gas or oil prices decline significantly for extended periods of time in the future, we might not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations and make planned capital expenditures. Natural gas and oil prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Among the factors that could cause fluctuations are: • change in local and global supply and demand for natural gas and oil; • levels of production and other activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other natural gas and oil producing nations; • market expectations about future prices; • the level of global natural gas and oil exploration, production activity and inventories; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting oil production activities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower natural gas and oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Undeveloped resources are uncertain. We have undeveloped resources. Undeveloped resources, including undeveloped reserves, by their nature, are significantly less certain than developed resources. The discovery, determination and exploitation of undeveloped resources require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling and exploration programs. We may not be able to raise the additional capital we need to develop these resources. There is no certainty that we will discover additional resources or that resources will be economically viable or technically feasible to produce. We are subject to operating hazards. The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosion, blowout, pipe failure, casing collapse, stuck tools, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, loss of or damage to well bores and/or drilling or production equipment, costs of overcoming downhole problems, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Gathering systems and processing facilities are subject to many of the same hazards and any significant problems related to those facilities could adversely affect our ability to market our production. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can have a material adverse effect on our cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration for and exploitation, production and sale of oil and gas in each country in which we operate is subject to extensive national and local laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations, and requires various permits and approvals from various governmental agencies. If these permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we might not be able to conduct our operations as planned. Alternatively, failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including the requirements of any permits, might result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to penalties. Our costs to comply with these numerous laws, regulations and permits are significant. Further, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs and associated liabilities. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not plan to insure against all potential operating risks. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our natural gas and oil operations. We do not intend to insure against all risks. Our natural gas and oil exploration and production activities will be subject to hazards and risks associated with drilling for, producing and transporting natural gas and oil, and storing, transporting and using explosive materials, and any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; • regulatory investigations and penalties; and • natural disasters. We might elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We might not be able to identify liabilities associated with properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. Our review and evaluation of prospects and future acquisitions might not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems. For example, inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, may not be readily identified even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, a seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, development, production and acquisition with a substantial number of other companies, including U.S.-based and foreign companies doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking oil and gas exploration licenses and production licenses; • acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing natural gas and oil production; • integrating new technologies; and • acquiring the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, managerial, technological and other resources than we do. These companies are able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and gas properties than we can. To the extent competitors are able to pay more for properties than we are paying, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, many of our competitors enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to explore for and produce natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. We might not be able to obtain necessary permits, approvals or agreements from one or more government agencies, surface owners, or other third parties, which could hamper our exploration, development or production activities. There are numerous permits, approvals, and agreements with third parties, which will be necessary in order to enable us to proceed with our development plans and otherwise accomplish our objectives. The government agencies in each country in which we operate have discretion in interpreting various laws, regulations, and policies governing operations under the licenses. Further, we may be required to enter into agreements with private surface owners to obtain access to, and agreements for, the location of surface facilities. In addition, because many of the laws governing oil and gas operations in the international countries in which we operate have been enacted relatively recently, there is only a relatively short history of the government agencies handling and interpreting those laws, including the various regulations and policies relating to those laws. This short history does not provide extensive precedents or the level of certainty that allows us to predict whether such agencies will act favorably toward us. The governments have broad discretion to interpret requirements for the issuance of drilling permits. Our inability to meet any such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our exploration, development or production activities. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to complete the exploration, development or production of any, or a significant portion of, the oil and gas interests covered by our leases or licenses before they expire. Each license or lease under which we operate has a fixed term. We may be unable to complete our exploration, development or production efforts prior to the expiration of licenses or leases. Failure to obtain government approval for a license or lease, an extension of the license or lease, be granted a new exploration license or lease or the failure to obtain a license or lease covering a sufficiently large area would prevent or limit us from continuing to explore, develop or produce a significant portion of the oil and gas interests covered by the license or lease. The determination of the amount of acreage to be covered by the production licenses is in the discretion of the respective governments. Political and economic instability or fundamental changes in the leadership or in the structure of the governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our company. Our foreign property interests and foreign operations may be affected by political and economic risks. These risks include war and civil disturbances, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations, labor problems and high rates of inflation. In addition, local, regional and world events could cause the jurisdictions in which we operate to change the petroleum laws, tax laws, foreign investment laws, or to revise their policies in a manner that renders our current and future projects unprofitable. Further, we are subject to risks in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate of the nationalization of the oil and gas industry, expropriation of property or other restrictions and penalties on foreign-owned entities, which could render our projects unprofitable or could prevent us from selling our assets or operating our business. The occurrence of any such fundamental change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The interests of our controlling shareholder may not coincide with yours and such controlling shareholder may make decisions with which you may disagree. As of March 15, 2010, Mr. Mitchell beneficially owned approximately 48.7% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Mitchell could control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some future transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Mitchell. The interests of Mr. Mitchell may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of common shares by our shareholders may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. We have registered for resale 98,382,751 common shares pursuant to two effective registration statements under the Securities Act. The ability of our shareholders to sell substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common shares could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. The value of our common shares might be affected by matters not related to our own operating performance. The value of our common shares may be affected by matters that are not related to our operating performance and which are outside of our control. These matters include the following: • the global economic crisis and general economic conditions in Canada, the United States, Romania, Morocco, Turkey and globally; • industry conditions, including fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas; • governmental regulation of the oil and natural gas industry, including environmental regulation; • fluctuation in foreign exchange or interest rates; • liabilities inherent in oil and natural gas operations; 20 Table of Contents • geological, technical, drilling and processing problems; • unanticipated operating events which can reduce production or cause production to be shut in or delayed; • failure to obtain industry partner and other third party consents and approvals, when required; • stock market volatility and market valuations; • competition for, among other things, capital, acquisition of reserves, undeveloped land and skilled personnel; • the need to obtain required approvals from regulatory authorities; • worldwide supplies and prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil; • political conditions and developments in each of the countries in which we operate; • political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions; • revenue and operating results failing to meet expectations in any particular period; • investor perception of the oil and natural gas industry; • limited trading volume of our common shares; • change in environmental and other governmental regulations; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • our liquidity; and • our ability to raise additional funds. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their common shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We might become involved in securities class action litigation in the future. Such litigation often results in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. U.S. shareholders who hold common shares during a period when we are classified as a passive foreign investment company may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Management believes that we are not currently a passive foreign investment company. However, we may have been a passive foreign investment company during one or more of our prior taxable years and could become a passive foreign investment company in the future. In general, classification of our company as a passive foreign investment company during a period when a U.S. shareholder holds common shares could result in certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to such shareholder. Certain U.S. shareholders who hold common shares during a period when we are classified as a controlled foreign corporation may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. Management believes that we currently are a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and that we will continue to be so treated. Consequently, a U.S. shareholder that owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote on the last day of our taxable year may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules with respect to its investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents 