Risk Factors.” General Chembio Diagnostics, Inc. (referred to collectively with its subsidiaries as the “Company”) and its subsidiaries develop, manufacture and market rapid diagnostic tests that detect infectious diseases. The Company’s main products presently commercially available are three rapid tests for the detection of HIV antibodies in whole blood, serum and plasma samples, all of which employ lateral flow technology, and two of which were approved by the FDA in 2006. In addition, we have a fourth rapid HIV test, developed on our patented Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology, for the detection of antibodies to HIV in oral fluid samples, as well as whole blood, serum and plasma samples. The products which employ lateral flow technology are manufactured and sold under a non-exclusive license we have from Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. (“Inverness”), which is also our exclusive marketing partner for the FDA-approved products in the United States (as well as Europe and Asia for the product that is known as the “barrel” format product) under its Clearview® brand. Inverness launched its marketing of these products in the United States in February 2007. Chembio’s two HIV STAT-PAK® rapid HIV tests (in cassette and dipstick formats) are marketed outside the United States through different partners and channels under our license from Inverness. On March 13, 2007, we were issued United States patent #7,189,522 for our Dual Path Platform (DPP®) rapid test system. Additional patent protection for DPP® is pending worldwide. DPP® enables Chembio to participate in the growing point–of-care diagnostics market with a patent-protected point-of-care platform technology. DPP® devices enable the development of products whose performance we believe exceeds that of comparable tests developed with lateral flow technology. As stated above we have completed development of an oral fluid HIV test on this new platform and are currently pursuing the commercialization of this product in several markets. We have also developed and/or are developing several other products on DPP®. We believe that DPP® provides significant advantages as a point-of-care platform particularly where challenging sample matrices, such as oral fluid, are involved, or where multiplexing is desired. We are developing all of our new products using this platform. Our strategy for the development of this platform technology is also dual; we have entered and are seeking to enter exclusive collaborations with large marketing partners for whom we will develop and manufacture products on the DPP® and we are developing our own products that we may choose to market through selected distribution partners either under a Chembio, DPP® or other brand. Our products are sold to medical laboratories and hospitals, governmental and public health entities, non-governmental organizations, and medical professionals. Our products are sold either under our DPP®, STAT-PAK® or SURE CHECK® registered trademarks and/or the private labels of our marketing partners, such as is the case with the Inverness Clearview® label for our rapid HIV tests in the United States. 3 Rapid HIV Tests The major component of our revenue growth in 2008 was increased sales of our rapid HIV tests and related components. A large percentage of individuals that are HIV positive worldwide are unaware of their status. Part of the reason for this is that even those that do get tested in public health settings will often not return or call back for their test results if samples have to be sent out to a laboratory which can take at least several days to process. The increased availability, greater efficacy and reduced costs for anti-retroviral treatments (ARVs) for HIV is also having a tremendous impact on the demand for testing, as the stigma associated with the disease is lessened, and the ability to resume normal activities is substantially improved, providing a positive message to those potentially infected. All four of our rapid HIV tests are qualitative “yes/no” tests for the detection of antibodies to HIV 1 & 2 with results available within approximately 15 minutes. The tests differ principally only in the method of sample collection and test procedure, flexibility with different sample types, and cost of manufacture. Prior to our agreement with Inverness, our rapid HIV tests had been marketed under either our SURE CHECK® or STAT-PAK® trademarks. Pursuant to our agreement with Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc., the SURE CHECK® product (which incorporates a proprietary barrel format) is now being marketed by Inverness as Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 and the cassette format of our HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK (we also have a third product known as HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK dipstick) is now being marketed by Inverness in the United States as Clearview® HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK®. We continue to market our STAT-PAK® cassette and dipstick outside the United States through other marketing channels. In addition, in 2008 we amended the agreement with Inverness, which previously had global exclusivity for the barrel format product, to a non-exclusive in Africa and Latin America. We will begin to market our DPP® oral fluid test globally (including in the United States) as we establish required regulatory clearances and authorizations, which we expect to receive during this year for certain markets in the developing world, though there is no assurance that this will occur. Regulatory Status: Rapid HIV Tests The FDA approved our Pre-Market Applications (hereinafter “PMA”; see “Governmental Regulations” and Glossary) for our SURE CHECK HIV 1/2 (and also now Inverness’ Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 ) and HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK (now Inverness’ Clearview® HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK in the United States only) products on May 25, 2006. A Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (“CLIA”) waiver was granted by the FDA for the HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK on November 20, 2006. Labeling changes to the Inverness Clearview® brands for both products were approved during the first quarter of 2007. CLIA waiver for the Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 was granted on October 22, 2007. CLIA waiver is required in order to market the products for use in hospital emergency rooms, public health clinics and physicians’ offices, where the level of training is traditionally less than the training at clinical laboratories and laboratories in hospitals. These settings constitute the largest portion of the available market for our products. Our third lateral flow rapid HIV test, HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK Dipstick and our DPP® oral fluid HIV test, though not FDA approved, qualify under FDA export regulations to sell, subject to any required approval by the importing country, to customers outside the United States. The dipstick product is our most competitively priced version of our three rapid HIV tests, and was designed primarily for resource-constrained, donor-funded markets that have large test volume needs. Although we have received approval from a number of potential importing countries for three of our lateral flow HIV tests, Brazil, Mexico, Nigeria, Ethiopia and Uganda are the countries in which we have realized significant sales. As a result of favorable evaluations of our HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK and HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK Dipstick products by the World Health Organization (the “WHO”), these products are qualified for procurement by programs funded by the United Nations and their partners’ programs. All three of our lateral flow HIV tests have qualified for procurement under the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (“PEPFAR”). During the first quarter of 2009 we submitted our oral fluid DPP® HIV 1/2 test, to these same agencies for inclusion in these programs. We also have other evaluations ongoing for this new product and anticipate commencement of clinical trials in the United States in support of a PMA during this year. Partners Involved in Marketing Our Products On September 29, 2006 we executed marketing and license agreements with Inverness. These agreements provide for the marketing of our rapid HIV tests in the United States; the agreements also grant us a license to Inverness’ lateral flow patents that may be applicable to certain of our other products, including those that we had under development at the time of the grant. As part of these agreements we also settled litigation that had been ongoing with another company, StatSure Diagnostics, Inc., relating to the proprietary barrel device that is incorporated into our Sure Check® HIV 1/2 product, which is also marketed exclusively as Inverness Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 in the United States, Europe and Asia. 4 We have appointed distributors internationally so that we are positioned to service those markets. Our focus is on those countries that have received or will receive funding commitments for HIV prevention and treatment, of which rapid HIV testing is an essential part. The most significant program globally that funds HIV testing is the United States PEPFAR program, which primarily is focused in 15 countries in sub-Saharan Africa that are at the epicenter of the disease. During 2008 we shipped approximately 2.4 million test kits to Nigeria, 1.6 million test kits to Uganda, and approximately 600,000 test kits to Ethiopia, or a total of approximately 4.6 million tests, mostly through the PEPFAR procurement agency known as the Partnership for Supply Chain Management (“PSCM”). Lesser volumes were shipped to several other countries in Asia, and Latin America. We also shipped HIV test kit components to the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation for the manufacture of tests in Brazil pursuant to our 2004 technology transfer agreement. Effective in January 2009, Nigeria changed from a parallel testing algorithm to a serial algorithm, and in this change our test’s designation in two of their new protocols was changed to that of a confirmatory test and a tie-breaker test in the third protocol. This designation has resulted in a dramatic reduction of sales to this country which decrease we anticipate will likely continue for at least several months. During 2008, the implementation of our HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK® as the confirmatory test in Ethiopia’s serial testing algorithm resulted in significantly increased sales to that country, which increases we anticipate may continue during 2009. We do not presently anticipate however that the increased sales in Ethiopia will in any case fully offset the decrease in Nigeria. We are pursuing new opportunities for distribution of our existing lateral flow HIV tests and new DPP® oral fluid HIV test in a number of markets globally. As stated earlier, during 2008 we amended our agreement with Inverness so that we may now market the barrel product under Chembio’s trademark, SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 directly throughout South America and Africa, subject to the payment of royalties to Inverness in accordance with our license to their lateral flow patents. OTHER RAPID TESTS We also have commercially available lateral flow tests for Chagas Disease and also a line of tests for the detection of tuberculosis in humans and certain animal species. However, these products represented less than 4% of our product revenues during 2008 and are not part of the central focus of our current business and growth strategy. Our Rapid Test Technologies All of our commercially available current products employ either in-licensed lateral flow technology or our own patented Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology. Lateral flow technology involves a sample flowing from the point of application on a test strip to provide a test result, indicated with a labeling reagent that allows the result to be visually or otherwise detected, on a portion of a strip downstream from either the point of application of the sample. Lateral flow technology is well established and widely applied in the development of rapid diagnostic tests. The functionality of our lateral flow tests is based on the ability of an antibody to bind with a specific antigen (or vice versa) and for the binding to become visible through the use of the colloidal gold and/or colored latex that we use in our products. The colloidal gold or the colored latex produces a colored line if the binding has occurred (the test line), in which case it means there has been a reactive or positive result. In any case, a separate line (the control line) will appear to confirm that the test has been validly run in accordance with the instructions for use. On March 13, 2007, we were issued United States patent number #7,189,522 describing a Dual Path Immunoassay system which we believe provides several advantages over lateral flow technology for certain applications (See “Intellectual Property”). The Dual Path Platform technology, or DPP®, uniquely provides for the sample application and migration toward the test zone area to be from an independent strip. This system enables improved sample control, multiplexing and certain other advantages. DPP® is providing the Company with significant new product development and licensing opportunities, and we are devoting all of our research and development efforts toward these programs. The sensitivity of a test indicates how strong the sample must be before it can be detected by the test. The specificity of a test measures the ability of the test to analyze, isolate, and detect only the matters targeted by the test. The sensitivity and specificity of our rapid HIV tests during our clinical trials undertaken in connection with our FDA PMAs were 99.7% and 99.9%, respectively. Both lateral flow technology and DPP® allow the development of accurate, low cost, easy-to-perform, single-use diagnostic tests for rapid, visual detection of specific antigen-antibody complexes on a test strip. This format provides a test that is simple (requires neither electricity nor expensive equipment for test execution or reading, nor skilled personnel for test interpretation), rapid (turnaround time approximately 15 minutes), safe (minimizes handling of potentially infected specimens), non-invasive (requires 5-20 micro liters of whole blood easily obtained with a finger prick, or alternatively, serum or plasma), stable (24 months at room temperature storage in the case of our HIV tests), and highly reproducible. 5 Our HIV tests are qualitative (reactive/non-reactive) tests. We have developed proprietary techniques that enable us to achieve high levels of sensitivity and specificity [see definition above] in our diagnostic tests using our proprietary colloidal gold conjugates and buffer systems. These techniques include the methods we employ in manufacturing and fusing the reagents with the colored latex, or colloidal gold, blocking procedures used to reduce false positives, and methods used in treating the materials used in our tests to obtain maximum stability and resulting longer shelf life. We also have extensive experience with a variety of lateral flow devices, including the sample collection device used in our SURE CHECK rapid HIV test which eliminates the need for transferring finger-stick whole blood samples from the fingertip onto a test device, because the collection of the sample is performed within a tubular test chamber that contains the lateral flow test strip. The whole blood sample is absorbed directly onto the test strip through a small opening in one end of the test chamber and an absorbent pad positioned just inside this same end of the test chamber. During 2007 and 2008 we entered collaborations with companies that have developed hand held and desktop readers that can objectively measure, quantify, record and report test results. Certain of the products we have and/or are developing for our customer in Brazil, the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, will incorporate some of these readers, and we are developing other products that may be used with or will require use of a reader. Target Market Rapid HIV Tests The marketing of our FDA-approved and CLIA-waived rapid HIV tests in the United States was launched by Inverness during the first quarter of 2007, and we estimate to have approximately a 10% share of the U.S. rapid HIV test market. In the United States, the need for rapid HIV tests has been developing first in the public health and hospital emergency room segments, and also in the physicians’ office laboratories. Of the estimated 25-30 million HIV tests performed in clinical settings in the United States, rapid HIV tests now account for approximately 20-25% of this market, or approximately 5-6 million tests of this total. We believe that the total number of HIV tests will continue to grow, and that the share available to rapid HIV tests will also grow. The pace of the implementation of recommendations that were made in late 2006 by the United States Centers for Disease Control (“CDC”) for routine HIV testing of all individuals between the ages of 13 and 64 will be a major factor in the rate of growth of the rapid HIV testing market in the United States. Endorsement of these recommendations by opinion leaders in the professional medical community are gradually helping to increase the demand for HIV testing in the United States. In addition, the revelation in a study disclosed in 2008 by CDC that annual new HIV cases in the US, which disproportionately impact African-Americans, had been under-reported for years by approximately 40%, underscored the need for improved prevention efforts in the United States. Although the most recent efforts to increase federal funding for STD prevention in the federal stimulus package were unsuccessful, we still believe that there is a good prospect that the current Congress and Administration will seek to increase these programs through other legislative appropriations. In the international market, PEPFAR, the large United States funded international AIDS relief program focused on fifteen countries, was reauthorized last year for up to $48 billion for FY2009-2012 (up from $15 billion in 2004-2008); the appropriation for 2009 is approximately $5.5 billion, of which approximately 12% or $900 million is allocated to the Global Fund, the other large international program created in 2001 to combat HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria. PEPFAR, The Global Fund and other global initiatives have succeeded in making life-saving treatments available now to well in excess of one million individuals. We believe that this is likely to have the effect of further encouraging more people to get tested, because with the availability of treatment, there is a clear reason to be tested. Other programs such as UNAIDS are significant participants in the global effort to prevent further transmission and save the lives of those already infected, as well as care for their families that are impacted. Marketing Strategy Our marketing strategy is to: · Support, review and assess the marketing and distribution efforts of our rapid HIV tests by Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. Inverness, which is a leading marketer of point-of-care diagnostic products, has significantly expanded its distribution footprint since we signed our agreement with Inverness, and we believe that this will enhance opportunities for Inverness to market our rapid HIV tests. In particular, Inverness has been very active in acquiring point-of-care product lines serving hospital emergency rooms and physicians’ offices. · Leverage our DPP® intellectual property and regulated product development and manufacturing experience to create new collaborations where Chembio can be the exclusive development and manufacturing partner with world class marketing partners. · Develop a small number of Chembio or DPP® branded products that capitalize on the advantages of this newly patented point-of-care technology and select distribution partners for such products. 6 Competition The diagnostics industry is a multi-billion dollar international industry and is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources. Industry competition in general is based on the following: · Scientific and technological capability; · Proprietary know-how; · The ability to develop and market products and processes; · The ability to obtain FDA or other required regulatory approvals; · The ability to manufacture products that meet applicable FDA requirements, (i.e. FDA’s Quality System Regulations) (see Governmental Regulation section); · The ability to manufacture products cost-effectively; · Access to adequate capital; · The ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and · The availability of patent protection. We believe our scientific and technological capabilities and our proprietary know-how relating to our in-licensed lateral flow technology rapid tests and to our proprietary know-how related to our patented dual path platform technology, particularly for the development and manufacture of tests for the detection of antibodies to infectious diseases such as HIV, are very strong. Our ability to develop and market other products is in large measure dependent on our having additional resources and/or collaborative relationships. Some of our product development efforts have been funded on a project or milestone basis. We believe that our proprietary know-how in lateral flow technology and in our dual path platform technology has been instrumental in our obtaining the collaborations we have and that we continue to pursue. We believe that the patent protection that we have with our Dual Path Platform enhances our ability to develop more profitable collaborative relationships and to license out the technology. We believe our regulatory certifications are also a strong asset for developing new products and collaborations. There are only two companies besides Chembio that have approved PMA’s for lateral flow rapid tests, all HIV tests: Trinity Biotech (Ireland) and Orasure Technologies, Inc. (PA). We believe that this is a significant competitive advantage when considering new products and collaborations. During 2006 and 2007 we obtained CLIA waivers for each of our FDA PMA approved HIV tests. These products therefore represent two of the four CLIA-waived rapid HIV tests. During 2007 and 2008 we received facility and product licenses from the USDA, became certified under ISO 13.485, and received our initial CE mark (for our Chagas product). We anticipate receiving CE marks for our HIV products during the first half of 2009. Our access to capital is much less than that of several of our competitors, and to the extent we would need to access large amounts of capital, this is a competitive disadvantage. We believe however that our access to capital is likely to increase if we continue our trend of improved operating results, and in the meantime we are focused on minimizing our capital requirements. Establishment of strategic collaborations for our DPP® technology also may provide us with access to funding that is potentially less dilutive or non-dilutive. The simplification of our capital structure that was completed in December 2007 should also improve our access to capital (See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview). To date, we believe we have been competitive in the industry in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Because of the greater financial resources of many of our competitors, we may not be able to compete effectively for the same individuals to the extent that a competitor uses its substantial resources to attract any such individuals. Also, in order to control costs and conserve resources, we have implemented layoffs and salary reductions that larger companies with greater resources may not need to implement. 7 We have been able to obtain patent protection by entering into licensing arrangements for reagents and lateral flow technologies. The March 2007 issuance by the United States Patent & Trademark Office of our Dual Path Platform™ patent gives us our first patent protection for our own rapid test platform, which we believe enhances our competitive position. Additional protection of this intellectual property is pending worldwide. Competitive factors specifically related to our HIV tests are product quality, delivery, sensitivity, specificity, ease-of-use, shelf life and price. Other factors can be sample size required, the presence of a true IgG control, and time to result. During the last few years, the competitive features of certain products produced by some international competitors have improved. Most of these companies, whose products are not and in most cases probably could not be FDA approved, typically have substantially lower costs of labor, regulatory approval and compliance, and intellectual property (if any) as compared with Chembio. Price has become an increasingly important factor since U.S. procurement rules still operate under a waiver of Buy America provisions, described below. Also, as described below, in most of the donor-funded markets in the developing world technical committees controlled by host governments are empowered to make final decisions as to which products will be used in screening programs. The leading competitors in the international rapid HIV test market are Trinity Biotech (Ireland), Inverness (U.S.) and Standard Diagnostics (Korea). Uni-Gold® HIV, marketed by Trinity Biotech of Ireland and Determine®, marketed by Inverness Medical, are the market leaders in the developing world, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, which is where most of the funding for rapid HIV tests is being allocated from donor funded programs such as PEPFAR. Neither the Trinity or Inverness products are FDA-approved, although Trinity does manufacture in Ireland an FDA-approved rapid HIV test, Uni-Gold Recombigen, for marketing in the United States. Inverness’ Orgenics subsidiary in Israel also has a rapid HIV test, Double-Check Gold, as does its subsidiary in China, ABON; neither of these products is FDA-approved. As such, while Inverness is our exclusive marketing partner in the United States, it is also a principal competitor to our rapid HIV tests outside the United States. Furthermore, in 2006 Trinity Biotech settled litigation with Inverness, and as part of that settlement it committed to have ABON, an Inverness subsidiary, to manufacture all of Trinity’s Uni-Gold® HIV products primarily for the African market. Standard Diagnostics of Korea also has a low-cost product that is very competitive against each of the other competitors in the developing world. There are a number of additional competitors, including several based in China and India of varying quality, that produce competitive rapid HIV tests. Under a now long-established waiver of Buy America provisions, products procured with US taxpayer funds need not be FDA approved or even made in the US so long as they meet reduced quality standards as compared to what would be required for an FDA approved product. Under the waiver guidelines, all manufacturers are invited by PEPFAR to be considered for procurement with United States taxpayer funds. The waiver, which was initially made available because of a dearth of suitable US-made or FDA approved products when PEPFAR was originally authorized, has continued even though there are now several products, including Chembio’s, that are FDA approved. Also, in addition to competing against approximately thirty non-FDA approved, non-US made products that can be purchased under U.S. procurement rules, in order to realize sales in the markets where the donor (mostly U.S.) funds are allocated, the product must additionally be selected by a country’s ministry of health or their designees to be part of a national testing protocol or “algorithm”. The algorithms typically use multiple rapid tests in sequence or in parallel to screen and confirm patients at the point-of-care and are increasingly allowing for multiple tests to be qualified in these algorithms. Chembio’s sales in Africa and certain other markets are therefore based on the fact that its test has been one of those selected. A product’s designation in a donor-funded country’s algorithm is largely followed by most of the implementing agencies and organizations, resulting in the selection process being critical to participation in donor funded procurements in such market, and limiting the impact of marketing activities once these selections have been made. The selection process in each of these countries is not predictable and is based upon a number of factors, including but not limited to product performance, price, and supply chain. In the developed world, particularly the United States and Europe, the competitive landscape and market dynamics are quite different. Due to the costs of and quality system requirements associated with US FDA regulatory approval, there are currently only two companies besides Chembio that have products that are both FDA PMA-approved and also CLIA-waived: Orasure Technologies (Bethlehem, PA) with OraQuick®, and Trinity Biotech Ltd. (Ireland) with Uni-Gold® Recombigen. The regulatory costs for FDA approval and fewer number of products in turn results in very different (higher) pricing in the US market as compared with the developing world, with prices in the US averaging $8-12 per test to end user. This compares to approximately $1.00 per test in the developing world. As the requirements for the PMA and CLIA waiver are difficult, costly, risky and time-consuming, particularly relative to the size of the market, and because such approval is not required for participation in PEPFAR under the above-described waiver guidelines, we do not anticipate that Inverness has any plan to submit any of its products produced outside the U.S. to the FDA. Further, our agreements with Inverness provide that in the event one of those submissions is made (or if Inverness acquires a competitive product in the United States), we have the right to terminate our agreement with Inverness or make Inverness’ marketing rights non-exclusive. In either case, we would retain a license under the Inverness lateral flow patents to market the products under a Chembio brand and/or through third party distribution partners. 8 Orasure has an estimated market share in the U.S. of approximately 70% with its Oraquick ® product. This product’s main advantages are that it was the first test to market and also that, at least for certain market segments (primarily public health), it can be performed with oral fluid samples, as compared with only blood samples, which is the case for our products as well as Trinity’s. The main disadvantage of the Orasure product is its relatively higher price. Also, Orasure’s claimed sensitivity with oral fluid samples is lower than with blood samples, and combined with some limited reports of performance (false positive) problems on oral fluid samples, this has created some opportunities for Inverness with our product, as well as for Trinity. Orasure markets its products directly through its own sales organization to the public health market, has made a significant investment in that market, and has nearly 100% of the three largest states in this market (New York, California and Florida) that together constitute the majority of public health HIV testing in the US. For the hospital market segment Orasure had an exclusive marketing arrangement with Abbott Diagnostics, but as of January 2009 they terminated this agreement and are expanding their direct sales organization to market directly to the hospital market segment as well. Trinity also relies on its own sales force to market its product, and does not have any other rapid tests to sell to distributors. The Uni-Gold product that is marketed by Trinity accounts for an estimated 10% of the market. This product does not detect HIV-2, while our products and Orasure’s both do. Though HIV-2 is a rare strain of HIV, it is an advantage to be able to detect, though there is a cost of 15% of Net Sales to the license for this claim. Trinity’s product also requires a much larger sample size, and does not have a true IgG control. This means that a control line, which is intended to confirm that the test procedure has been performed correctly, will appear on their product so long as any liquid material is applied to its sampling area; Chembio’s (and Orasure’s) control line will appear only if a biological sample is applied. The shelf life of our HIV products is 24 months, which is twice that of both the Uni-Gold and Orasure products. We believe that Inverness, as a leading marketer of a broad range of point-of-care tests sold into all U.S. market segments, has a superior marketing organization as compared to either of our U.S. market competitors who are much smaller than Inverness. Inverness has made a significant investment in its launch of our products, in the training of a large marketing organization in the US, and in the acquisition of complementary product lines and sales organizations. For example, Inverness has significantly augmented its access to emergency room departments in hospitals through its acquisition of Bio-Site, which was the leading company in point-of-care tests for cardiac monitoring, and whose sales force can now add our product to its product portfolio for this important market segment. We believe that this is an example of the distribution advantages of our marketing partner. Chembio’s HIV Tests One of our two product formats, the “barrel” format now marketed by Inverness as Clearview® Complete HIV 1-2, is a unique product format inasmuch as it is a unitized product, meaning that all components necessary to perform a single test are contained in a single pouch. This “barrel” format provides for a proprietary method of collecting finger-stick whole blood samples that eliminates the need for the step that all other devices require of transferring the sample from the fingertip to the sample well of the test. Also, the buffer solution in the barrel format is in a unitized vial that is pierced by the barrel tip to initiate the sample migration up the test strip contained inside the “barrel”, and thereby creates a closed system that helps to minimize possible exposure to potentially infectious samples. Our other FDA PMA approved rapid HIV test, marketed by Inverness as Clearview® HIV 1-2 STAT PAK®, is a rectangular-shaped lateral flow plastic cassette format test wherein the sample is transferred from the sample source (finger tip in the case of finger-stick whole blood samples) to the sample port in the cassette by means of a transfer loop. Though this step is not required in the barrel format, the cassette is less costly to manufacture, is a more familiar format to customers that have performed other standard design lateral flow tests, and is a more flexible format that utilizes the same procedure for all approved sample matrices (venous whole blood, finger-stick whole blood, serum and plasma). To date this format has accounted for almost all of the sales we have had through Inverness. However this is in part due to the fact that the barrel format was not CLIA waived until October 2007, approximately a year later than the cassette product, and we anticipate more sales of this product in the future, though still less than the cassette. Research and Development During 2008 and 2007, $2.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively, were spent on research and development activities. Substantially all of our new product development activities involve employment of our Dual Path Platform (DPP®) technology for which we were awarded a U.S patent in 2007. We believe that this platform enables us to pursue many new product development and licensing opportunities. The DPP® technology can provide improved features on certain tests developed with it that include higher sensitivity, earlier detection, improved performance with more challenging sample types (such as oral fluid), and the improved ability to detect multiple analytes (multiplexing) in one test device. During 2008 we made substantial progress in developing a portfolio of products based on the DPP® technology. These activities include completing development of certain products and making significant progress toward the development of additional products. These activities are further explained in Part II Item 7. 9 Regulatory Activities We continue to make progress on obtaining a Community European (CE) marking for our products to indicate conformity with European Union health, safety and environmental requirements. We have submitted the HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK® technical file to our notified body and should complete all required steps for CE Marking of this product during the second quarter of 2009. Under our agreement with Inverness we are to obtain a CE Marking for the Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2. We are prepared to submit the technical file for this product on behalf of Inverness once we received final proposed labeling from Inverness. We are also pursuing registrations of our lateral flow and DPP® HIV products in a number of other jurisdictions, and also pursing registrations with the USDA of additional claims for our veterinary tuberculosis products. During 2008 we received FDA approval for the lowering of the age limits that the tests are approved for from 18 years to 13 years of age. This lowering of the lower age limit put our approved product claims in line with the 2006 CDC recommendations for routine test of all individuals between the ages of 13 and 64, and we believe that this additional marketing claim for the product will assist Inverness in certain market opportunities with our products. Employees At December 31, 2008, we employed 114 people, including 110 full-time employees. Effective May 2006, we entered into an employment agreement with Lawrence Siebert, President and Chairman. Effective March 2007, we entered into an employment agreement with Javan Esfandiari, Executive Vice-President of Research and Development. Governmental Regulation The manufacturing and marketing of the Company’s existing and proposed diagnostic products are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), certain state and local agencies, and/or comparable regulatory bodies in other countries. These regulations govern almost all aspects of development, production and marketing, including product testing, authorizations to market, labeling, promotion, manufacturing and record keeping. The Company’s FDA and USDA regulated products require some form of action by each agency before they can be marketed in the United States, and, after approval or clearance, the Company must continue to comply with other FDA requirements applicable to marketed products, e.g. Quality Systems (for medical devices). Failure to comply with the FDA’s requirements can lead to significant penalties, both before and after approval or clearance. Most point-of-care diagnostic products are regulated as medical devices by the FDA Centers of Device and Radiological Health, though some are regulated by the FDA Center of Biologics Evaluation and Research. There are two review procedures by which medical devices can receive FDA clearance or approval. Some products may qualify for clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, in which the manufacturer provides a pre-market notification that it intends to begin marketing the product, and shows that the product is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed product (i.e., that it has the same intended use and is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness). In some cases, the submission must include data from human clinical studies. Marketing may commence when the FDA issues a clearance letter finding such substantial equivalence. An applicant must submit a 510(k) application at least 90 days before marketing of the affected product commences. Although FDA clearance may be granted within that 90-day period, in some cases as much as a year or more may be required before clearance is obtained, if at all. If the medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) procedure (either because it is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device or because it is required by statute and the FDA’s implementing regulations to have an approved application), the FDA must approve PMA application before marketing can begin. PMA’s must demonstrate, among other matters, that the medical device provides a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. A PMA application is typically a complex submission, including the results of non-clinical and clinical studies. Preparing a PMA application is a much more expensive, detailed and time-consuming process as compared with a 510(K) pre-market notification. Once a PMA has been submitted, the FDA is required to review the submission within a statutory period of time. However, the FDA’s review may be, and often is, much longer, often requiring one year or more, and may include requests for additional data. The Company has approved PMAs for the two rapid HIV tests now marketed by Inverness Medical as Clearview® Complete HIV 1-2 and Clearview® HIV 1-2 STAT PAK®. 10 Every company that manufactures medical devices distributed in the United States must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. These regulations govern the manufacturing process, including design, manufacture, testing, release, packaging, distribution, documentation and purchasing. Compliance with the Quality System Regulations is required before the FDA will approve an application, and these requirements also apply to marketed products. Companies are also subject to other post-market and general requirements, including compliance with restrictions imposed on marketed products, compliance with promotional standards, record keeping and reporting of certain adverse reactions or events. The FDA regularly inspects companies to determine compliance with the Quality System Regulations and other post-approval requirements. Failure to comply with statutory requirements and the FDA’s regulations can lead to substantial penalties, including monetary penalties, injunctions, product recalls, seizure of products, and criminal prosecution. The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1988 (“CLIA”) prohibits laboratories from performing in vitro tests for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of, the health of human beings unless there is in effect for such laboratories a certificate issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (via the FDA) applicable to the category of examination or procedure performed. Although a certificate is not required for the Company, it considers the applicability of the requirements of CLIA in the design and development of its products. The statutory definition of “laboratory” is very broad, and many of our customers are considered labs. A CLIA waiver will remove certain quality control and other requirements that must be met for certain customers to use the Company’s products and this is in fact critical to the marketability of a product into the point-of-care diagnostics market. The Company has received a CLIA waiver for each of the two rapid HIV tests now marketed by Inverness Medical as Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 and Clearview® HIV 1/2 STAT PAK®. The CLIA waiver was granted by the FDA for HIV 1/2 STAT-PAK on November 20, 2006 and for the Clearview® Complete HIV 1/2 on October 22, 2007. In addition, the FDA regulates the export of medical devices that have not been approved for marketing in the United States. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act contains general requirements for any medical device that may not be sold in the United States and is intended for export. Specifically, a medical device intended for export is not deemed to be adulterated or misbranded if the product: (1) complies with the specifications of the foreign purchaser; (2) is not in conflict with the laws of the country to which it is intended for export; (3) is prominently labeled on the outside of the shipping package that it is intended for export; and (4) is not sold or offered for sale in the United States. Some medical devices face additional statutory requirements before they can be exported. If an unapproved device does not comply with an applicable performance standard or PMA requirement, is exempt from either such requirement because it is an investigational device, or is a banned device, the device may be deemed to be adulterated or misbranded unless the FDA has determined that exportation of the device is not contrary to the public health and safety and has the approval of the country to which it is intended for export. However, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act does permit the export of devices to any country in the world, if the device complies with the laws of the importing country and has valid marketing authorization in one of several “listed” countries under the theory that these listed countries have sophisticated mechanisms for the review of medical devices for safety and effectiveness. The Company is also subject to regulations in foreign countries governing products, human clinical trials and marketing, and may need to obtain approval or evaluations by international public health agencies, such as the World Health Organization, in order to sell diagnostic products in certain countries. Approval processes vary from country to country, and the length of time required for approval or to obtain other clearances may in some cases be longer than that required for United States governmental approvals. On the other hand, the fact that our HIV diagnostic tests are of value in the AIDS epidemic may lead to some government process being expedited. The extent of potentially adverse governmental regulation affecting Chembio that might arise from future legislative or administrative action cannot be predicted. One or more of the Company’s rapid HIV tests are also approved or pending approval for marketing in several foreign jurisdictions, including but not limited to Brazil, Mexico, and India, as well as a number of other nations in the developing world. Environmental Laws To date, we have not encountered any costs relating to compliance with any environmental laws. Intellectual Property Intellectual Property Strategy Our intellectual property strategy is to: (1) build our owned intellectual property portfolio around our Dual Path Platform technology; (2) pursue licenses, trade secrets and know-how within the area of lateral flow technology and DPP®; and (3) develop and acquire proprietary positions to reagents and new hardware platforms for the development and manufacture of rapid diagnostic tests. 11 Trade Secrets and Know-How We believe that we have developed a substantial body of trade secrets and know-how relating to the development of lateral flow and DPP® based diagnostic tests, including but not limited to the sourcing and optimization of materials for such tests, and how to maximize sensitivity, speed-to-result, specificity, stability and reproducibility. The Company possesses proprietary know-how to develop tests for multiple conditions using colored latex. Our buffer formulations enable extremely long shelf lives of our rapid HIV tests and we believe that this provides us with an important competitive advantage. Lateral Flow Technology and Reagent Licenses As part of our agreements in 2006 with Inverness for the marketing of our HIV tests, we were granted non-exclusive licenses to their lateral flow technology for certain products manufactured and marketed by Chembio including but not limited to our HIV tests. Although we believe our DPP® is outside of the scope of lateral flow patents, we consult with patent counsel, and seek licenses and/or redesigns of products that we believe to be in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. Because of the costs and other negative consequences of time-consuming patent litigation, we often attempt to obtain a license on reasonable terms. Nevertheless there is no assurance that Inverness’ lateral flow patents will not be challenged or that other patents containing claims relevant to the Company’s products will be not be granted and that licenses to such patents, if any, will be available on reasonable terms, if any. Inverness has aggressively enforced its lateral flow intellectual property, and in 2008 brought a patent infringement lawsuit against Orasure. Orasure has claimed that their Oraquick product does not infringe the Inverness patent and that the Inverness patent is invalid. The lawsuit is in the discovery phase. In the event that it is determined that a license to any patent is required and it is not possible to negotiate a license agreement under a necessary patent, we may be able to modify the applicable product such that a license would not be necessary. However, this alternative could delay or limit our ability to sell these products in the United States and/or other markets, and/or increase penalties, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. The DPP® technology provides us with our own intellectual property and we believe it also enables tests to be developed with improved sensitivity as compared with comparable tests on lateral flow platforms. The Company has signed and anticipates signing new development projects based upon the DPP® technology that will provide new manufacturing and marketing opportunities. We have several other patents issued or pending related to other point-of-care technologies or applications thereof. The DPP® patent protection is being prosecuted in many foreign jurisdictions as well. The peptides used in our rapid HIV tests are patented by Adaltis Inc. and are licensed to us under a 10-year non-exclusive license agreement dated August 30, 2002, which was recently amended to reduce the royalty rate. We also have licensed the antigens used in other tests including our Chagas, Tuberculosis and Leishmaniasis tests. In prior years we concluded license agreements related to intellectual property rights owned by the United States associated with HIV- 1, and during the first quarter of 2008 we entered into a sub-license agreement for HIV-2 with Bio-Rad Laboratories N.A., the exclusive licensee of the Pasteur Institute’s HIV-2 intellectual property estate. Corporate History On May 5, 2004, we completed a merger with Chembio Diagnostic Systems Inc. through which Chembio Diagnostics Systems Inc. became our wholly-owned subsidiary, and through which the management and business of Chembio Diagnostic Systems Inc. became our management and business. As part of this transaction, we changed our name to Chembio Diagnostics, Inc. In 2003, we had sold our prior business, and as a result, we had no specific business immediately prior to the merger. Since the formation of Chembio Diagnostic Systems Inc. in 1985, it has been involved in developing, manufacturing, selling and distributing in-vitro diagnostic tests, including rapid tests beginning in 1995, for a number of conditions in humans and animals. On March 12, 2004, we implemented a 1-for-17 reverse split of our common stock. All references in this Form 10-K to shares of our common stock have been adjusted to reflect this reverse split. 12 Glossary AIDS Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome. AIDS is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus, HIV. ALGORITHM (parallel or serial) For rapid HIV testing this refers both to method or protocol (in developing countries to date) for using rapid tests from different manufacturers in combination to screen and confirm patients at the point-of-care, and may also refer to the specific tests that have been selected by an agency or ministry of health to be used in this way. A parallel algorithm uses two screening tests from different manufacturers and a tie-breaker test only if there is a discrepancy between the screening tests results. A serial algorithm only uses a second confirmatory test if there is a positive result from the screening test, meaning that the number of confirmatory tests used is equal to the positivity rate in the testing venue. A tie-breaker test resolves discrepancies between the screen and the confirmatory test. ANTIBODY A protein which is a natural part of the human immune system produced by specialized cells to neutralize antigens, including viruses and bacteria that invade the body. Each antibody producing cell manufactures a unique antibody that is directed against, binds to and eliminates one, and only one, specific type of antigen. ANTIGEN Any substance which, upon entering the body, stimulates the immune system leading to the formation of antibodies. Among the more common antigens are bacteria, pollens, toxins, and viruses. ARVs Anti-Retroviral Treatments for AIDS CD-4 The CD4+ T-lymphocyte is the primary target for HIV infection because of the affinity of the virus for the CD4 surface marker. Measures of CD4+ T-lymphocytes are used to guide clinical and therapeutic management of HIV-infected persons. CDC United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CLIA waiver Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act designation that allows simple tests to be performed in point-of-care settings such as doctors offices, walk-in clinics and emergency rooms. DIAGNOSTIC Pertaining to the determination of the nature or cause of a disease or condition. Also refers to reagents or procedures used in diagnosis to measure proteins in a clinical sample. EITF Emerging Issues Task Force FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FDA United States Food and Drug Administration FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FAS Financial Accounting Standard HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus. HIV (also called HIV-1), a retrovirus, causes AIDS. A similar retrovirus, HIV-2, causes a variant disease, sometimes referred to as West African AIDS. HIV infection leads to the destruction of the immune system. IgG IgG or Immunoglobulin are proteins found in human blood. This protein is called an “antibody” and is an important part of the body’s defense against disease. When the body is attacked by harmful bacteria or viruses, antibodies help fight these invaders. MOH Ministry of Health MOU Memoranda of Understanding NGO Non-Governmental Organization OTC Over-the-Counter PEPFAR The President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PMA Pre-Marketing Approval –FDA approval classification for a medical device that is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device or is otherwise required by statute to have an approved application. Rapid HIV tests must have an approved PMA application before marketing of such a product can begin. PROTOCOL A procedure pursuant to which an immunodiagnostic test is performed on a particular specimen in order to obtain the desired reaction. REAGENT A chemical added to a sample under investigation in order to cause a chemical or biological reaction which will enable measurement or identification of a target substance. RETROVIRUS A type of virus which contains the enzyme Reverse Transcriptase and is capable of transforming infected cells to produce diseases in the host such as AIDS. SAB Staff Accounting Bulletin SENSITIVITY Refers to the ability of an assay to detect and measure small quantities of a substance of interest. The greater the sensitivity, the smaller the quantity of the substance of interest the assay can detect. Also refers to the likelihood of detecting the antigen when present. SPECIFICITY The ability of an assay to distinguish between similar materials. The greater the specificity, the better an assay is at identifying a substance in the presence of substances of similar makeup. SPUTUM Expectorated matter; saliva mixed with discharges from the respiratory passages TB Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs. But, TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. TB is spread through the air from one person to another. The bacteria are put into the air when a person with active TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs or sneezes. People nearby may breathe in these bacteria and become infected. UNAIDS Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS USAID United States Agency for International Development USDA U.S Department of Agriculture WHO World Health Organization 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information provided in this Annual Report. The risks described below are those we currently believe may materially affect us. An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk, and should be considered only by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. Risks related to our industry, business and strategy Because we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for some of our products, we may not generate revenues in the amounts we expect, or in the amounts necessary to continue our business. All of our proposed and existing products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and/or other domestic and international governmental, public health agencies, regulatory bodies or non-governmental organizations. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. The process of obtaining required approvals or clearances varies according to the nature of, and uses for, a specific product. These processes can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human or animal clinical trials, sampling activities, and other costly, time-consuming procedures. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that the authority will grant an approval or clearance for product. Each authority may impose its own requirements and can delay or refuse to grant approval or clearance, even though a product has been approved in another country. The time taken to obtain approval or clearance varies depending on the nature of the application and may result in the passage of a significant period of time from the date of submission of the application. Delays in the approval or clearance processes increase the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling the subject products, and we may determine to devote our resources to different products. Changes in government regulations could increase our costs and could require us to undergo additional trials or procedures, or could make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. Changes in government regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because we may have to incur additional expenses if we are required to change or implement new testing, manufacturing and control procedures. If we are required to devote resources to develop such new procedures, we may not have sufficient resources to devote to research and development, marketing, or other activities that are critical to our business. For example, the European Union and other jurisdictions have a requirement that diagnostic medical devices used to test human biological specimens must receive regulatory approval known as a CE mark, or be registered under the ISO 13.485 medical device directive. The letters “CE” are the abbreviation of the French phrase “Conforme Européene,” which means “European conformity.” ISO (“International Organization for Standardization”) is the world’s largest developer of standards with 148 member countries. As such, export to the European and other jurisdictions without the CE or ISO 13.485 mark is not possible. In 2007, we received ISO 13.485 certification, in 2008, we received a CE registration for our Chagas test, and during 2009 we expect to receive CE registration for our two FDA approved HIV tests. However, there are no assurances that we will be able to secure this certification although we are not aware of any material reason why such approval will not be granted. However, if for any reason a CE registration is not granted, our ability to export our products could be adversely impacted. We can manufacture and sell our products only if we comply with regulations of government agencies such as the FDA and the USDA. We have implemented a quality system that is intended to comply with applicable regulations. Although FDA approval is not required for the export of our products, there are export regulations promulgated by the FDA that specifically relate to the export of our products. Although we believe that we meet the regulatory standards required for the export of our products, these regulations could change in a manner that could adversely impact our ability to export our products. 14 Our products may not be able to compete with new diagnostic products or existing products developed by well-established competitors, which would negatively affect our business. The diagnostic industry is focused on the testing of biological specimens in a laboratory or at the point-of-care and is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Our principal competitors often have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several companies produce diagnostic tests that compete directly with our testing product line, including but not limited to, Orasure Technologies, Inverness Medical and Trinity Biotech. As new products enter the market, our products may become obsolete or a competitor’s products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than ours. Although we have no specific knowledge of any competitor’s product that will render our products obsolete, if we fail to maintain and enhance our competitive position or fail to introduce new products and product features, our customers may decide to use products developed by our competitors, which could result in a loss of revenues and cash flow. We are developing an oral fluid rapid HIV test as well as other applications utilizing our Dual Path Platform technology, which we believe could enhance our competitive position in HIV rapid testing and other fields. During 2008 we completed development of our initial DPP® products for the detection of antibodies to HIV 1 & 2 in oral fluid as well as blood samples, and a product for the detection of canine leishmaniasis. However we still have technical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing challenges to meet before we will know whether we can successfully commercialize products incorporating this technology. There can be no assurance that we will overcome these challenges. We have granted Inverness exclusive rights to market our SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 in the United States, Europe and Asia and our HIV 1/2 STAT PAK® in the U.S. Inverness has no rapid HIV tests that are approved for marketing in the U.S., we are not aware of any rapid HIV products that Inverness is even contemplating for the U.S., and Inverness is obligated to inform us of any such products as soon as it is able to do so. Inverness does have rapid HIV tests manufactured by certain of its subsidiaries outside the U.S. that are being actively marketed outside the U.S., primarily in developing countries. Our HIV 1/2 STAT PAK cassette and dipstick products compete against these Inverness products, and we specifically acknowledge in our agreements with Inverness the existence of such other products. Moreover, except for a product in the HIV barrel field as defined in our agreement with Inverness, Inverness is permitted under our agreements to market certain types of permitted competing rapid HIV tests in the U.S. Under these conditions, we could choose to terminate the applicable agreement with Inverness or change the agreement to a non-exclusive agreement, and Inverness would expand the lateral flow license granted to the Company to allow the Company to market the product independently or through other marketing partners. While we believe that Inverness is committed to successfully marketing our products particularly in the U.S. and other developed countries where our products are or become approved for marketing, Inverness may choose to develop or acquire competing products for marketing in the U.S. as well as other markets where they are marketing our SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 product, and such an action could have at least a temporary material adverse effect on the marketing of these products until such time as alternative marketing arrangements could be implemented. While we also believe that the expansion of our license to the Inverness lateral flow patents substantially facilitates our ability to make alternative marketing arrangements, there can be no assurance that the modification of marketing arrangements and the possible corresponding delays or suspension of sales would not have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the point-of-care diagnostics industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. As new technologies become introduced into the point-of-care diagnostic testing market, we may be required to commit considerable additional efforts, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products. We may not have the available time and resources to accomplish this and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which would materially harm our operating results. We own no issued patents covering lateral flow technology, and the field of lateral flow technology is complex and characterized by a substantial amount of litigation, so the risk of potential patent challenges is ongoing for us in spite of our pending patent applications. Although we have been granted non-exclusive licenses to the lateral flow patents owned by Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. , there is no assurance that their lateral flow patents will not be challenged or that licenses from other parties may not be required, if available at all. In the event that it is determined that a license is required and it is not possible to negotiate a license agreement under a necessary patent, we may be able to modify our HIV rapid test products and other products such that a license would not be necessary. However, this alternative could delay or limit our ability to sell these products in the U.S. and other markets, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. 15 During 2008 Inverness and Church & Dwight commenced a patent infringement suit against Orasure Technologies, Inc. based on Orasure’s alleged infringement of one of Church & Dwight’s and Inverness’ (the parties have joint rights to this patent) main patents covering lateral flow technology. Orasure has alleged that it does not infringe such patent and that such patent is invalid. A judgment adverse to Inverness stating that Orasure’s product does not infringe the Inverness patent or invalidating the Inverness patent, which patent Inverness has successfully used to restrict competition in selected product areas core to Inverness’ business, could potentially open up the US rapid HIV test market to other competitors, and thereby have a material and adverse effect on our business. A settlement by Inverness with Orasure, depending on its terms, could also have a material effect on our business, which effect could be beneficial or detrimental. On March 13, 2007, our Dual Path Platform Immunoassay Device patent application was issued as United States patent no. 7,189,522. Additional protection for this intellectual property is pending worldwide. This platform has shown improved sensitivity as compared with conventional platforms in a number of preliminary studies using well characterized samples. We believe that this new platform is outside of the scope of currently issued patents in the field of lateral flow technology, thereby offering the possibility of a greater freedom to operate. However there can be no assurance that our patents or our products incorporating the patent claims will not be challenged at some time in the future. New developments in health treatments or new non-diagnostic products may reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. The development and commercialization of products outside of the diagnostics industry could adversely affect sales of our products. For example, the development of a safe and effective vaccine to HIV or treatments for other diseases or conditions that our products are designed to detect, could reduce, or eventually eliminate, the demand for our HIV or other diagnostic products and result in a loss of revenues. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively introduce and market our products, which could materially harm our operating results. Introducing and achieving market acceptance for our rapid HIV tests and other new products will require substantial marketing efforts and will require us or our contract partners, sales agents, or distributors to make significant expenditures of time and money. In some instances we will be significantly or totally reliant on the marketing efforts and expenditures of our contract partners, sales agents, distributors. If they do not have or commit the expertise and resources to effectively market the products that we manufacture, our operating results will be materially harmed. The success of our business depends, in addition to the market success of our products, on our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity or through borrowing, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds in amounts necessary to continue our business, or at all. Our revenues and gross margins have increased significantly in recent periods, and our operating and net losses have decreased significantly in recent periods. Nevertheless we have sustained significant operating losses in 2008, 2007 and 2006. At December 31, 2008, we had a stockholders’ equity of $2.58 million and a working capital surplus of $1.66 million. The Company estimates that its resources are sufficient to fund its needs through the end of 2009 and beyond or that, in the alternative, it could raise additional capital although the terms under which that capital could be raised would likely be very dilutive to current shareholders. The Company’s liquidity and cash requirements will depend on several factors. These factors include (1) the level of revenues (the Company received $340,000 in 2009 for license fees for which we need to meet certain milestones to earn); (2) the extent to which, if any, that revenue level improves operating cash flows; (3) the Company’s investments in research and development, facilities, marketing, regulatory approvals, and other investments it may determine to make; and (4) the investment in capital equipment (including production equipment of $323,500 that the Company has contracted for) and the extent to which it improves cash flow through operating efficiencies. There are no assurances that the Company will become profitable or generate positive cash flow by the end of 2009 or, in the alternative, be successful in raising sufficient capital to fund its needs through 2009. Our objective of increasing international sales is critical to our business plan and if we fail to meet this objective, we may not generate revenues in the amounts we expect, or in amounts necessary to continue our business. We intend to attempt to increase international sales of our products. A number of factors can slow or prevent international sales, or substantially increase the cost of international sales, including: · regulatory requirements and customs regulations; · cultural and political differences; · foreign exchange rates, currency fluctuations and tariffs; · dependence on and difficulties in managing international distributors or representatives; · the creditworthiness of foreign entities; · difficulties in foreign accounts receivable collection; and · economic conditions and the absence of available funding sources. If we are unable to increase our revenues from international sales, our operating results will be materially harmed. 16 We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be sure that these laws or agreements adequately protect our rights. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, strategic relationships, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and name recognition are essential to our success. All our management personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. If personnel leave our employment, in some cases we would be required to protect our intellectual property rights pursuant to common law theories which may be less protective than provisions of employment, non-competition or non-disclosure agreements. We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, enter into license agreements for various materials and methods employed in our products, and enter into strategic relationships for distribution of the products. These strategies afford only limited protection. We currently have no foreign patents, though we are seeking patent protection in several foreign jurisdictions for our DPP® technology. We have licenses to reagents (antigens and peptides) used in several of our products and products under development We also have a license to manufacture, use and sell products used to screen for antibodies to HIV-2. In addition, our SURE CHECK®, DPP® and STAT-PAK® trademarks have been registered in the U.S. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary assets, and respect the intellectual property rights of others, we participate in several markets where intellectual property rights protections are of little or no value. This can place our products and our company at a competitive disadvantage. During 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009 we terminated a number of employees who have had access to proprietary and confidential information. In connection with the termination of several of these employees whose positions were terminated, individuals executed severance agreements that include strong covenants by these former employees to keep our proprietary information confidential. Despite these and other efforts we make to protect our confidential information, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to expend substantial resources in asserting or protecting our intellectual property rights, or in defending suits related to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights could substantially delay product development or commercialization activities because some of our available funds would be diverted away from our business activities. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights might include state, federal or foreign court litigation as well as patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. To facilitate development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining and maintaining these licenses, which may not be available, may require the payment of up-front fees and royalties. In addition, if we are unable to obtain these types of licenses, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed or precluded. Our continued growth depends on retaining our current key employees and attracting additional qualified personnel, and we may not be able to do so. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the skills and experience of our executive officers, management and sales, marketing, operations and scientific staff. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical products businesses, geographic considerations, our ability to offer competitive compensation , relocation packages, benefits, and/or other reasons. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to effectively manufacture, sell and market our products to meet the demands of our strategic partners in a timely fashion, or to support internal research and development programs. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced scientists and other personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. 17 We have entered into employment contracts with our President, Lawrence Siebert, and our Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Javan Esfandiari. Due to the specific knowledge and experience of these executives regarding the industry, technology and market, the loss of the services of either one of them would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. The contract with Mr. Siebert had a term of two years ending May 2008, which the board of directors extended for one year, and the contract with Mr. Esfandiari has a term of three years ending March 2010. We have obtained a key man insurance policy for Mr. Esfandiari. We believe our success depends on our ability to participate in large government programs in the U.S. and worldwide and we may not be able to do so. We believe it to be in our best interests to meaningfully participate in the PEPFAR Program, UN Global Fund initiatives and other programs funded by large donors. We have initiated several strategies to participate in these programs. Participation in these programs requires alignment and engagement with the many other participants in these programs including the World Health Organization, U.S. Center for Disease Control, U.S. Agency for International Development, foreign governments and their agencies, non-governmental organizations, and HIV service organizations. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to participate in these programs, our operating results could be materially harmed. We have a history of incurring net losses and we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve profitability. Since the inception of Chembio Diagnostic Systems, Inc. in 1985 and through the period ended December 31, 2008, we have incurred net losses. As of December 31, 2008, we have an accumulated deficit of $37 million. We incurred net losses of $1.9 million and $2.6 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to make substantial expenditures for sales and marketing, regulatory submissions, product development and other purposes, though within reasonable limitations that we believe are necessary in order to continue our making progress toward profitability without requiring additional capital. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products, reduce production and other costs and successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. If we are unable to increase our revenues at a rate that is sufficient to achieve profitability, or adequately control and reduce our operating costs, our operating results would be materially harmed. To the extent that we are unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance or that we incur product liability exposure that is not covered by our product liability insurance, our operating results could be materially harmed. We may be held liable if any of our products, or any product which is made with the use or incorporation of any of the technologies belonging to us, causes injury of any type or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or usage. We have obtained product liability insurance, we have never received a product liability claim, and have generally not seen product liability claims for screening tests that are accompanied by appropriate disclaimers. Nevertheless, in the event there is a claim, this insurance may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, as we attempt to bring new products to market, we may need to increase our product liability coverage which would be a significant additional expense that we may not be able to afford. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost to protect us, we may be forced to abandon efforts to commercialize our products or those of our strategic partners, which would reduce our revenues. Risks related to our Common Stock In the past, our Common Stock has been classified as penny stock, and it continues to be extremely illiquid, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing market prices. In the past, our Common Stock has been classified as penny stock. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 and trade on the over-the-counter market. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the price of the securities that are classified as penny stocks. The “penny stock” rules adopted by the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), subject the sale of the shares of penny stock issuers to regulations that impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, causing many broker-dealers to not trade penny stocks or to only offer the stocks to sophisticated investors that meet specified net worth or net income criteria identified by the Commission. These regulations contribute to the lack of liquidity of penny stocks. 18 At the present time, transactions in our Common Stock are not subject to the “penny stock” rules because our average revenue for 2006, 2007 and 2008 exceeded $6 million per year. However, there can be no assurance that transactions in our Common Stock will not be subject to the “penny stock” rules in the future. The average daily trading volume of our Common Stock on the over-the-counter market was less than 16,000 shares per day over the three months ended March 16, 2009. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Our management and larger stockholders exercise significant control over our Company and may approve or take actions that may be adverse to your interests. As of March 17, 2009, our named executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders beneficially owned approximately 63.7% of our voting power. For the foreseeable future, to the extent that our current stockholders vote similarly, they will be able to exercise control over many matters requiring approval by the board of directors or our stockholders. As a result, they will be able to: · control the composition of our board of directors; · control our management and policies; · determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to stockholders; and · act in each of their own interests, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of each other or the interests of the other stockholders. ITEM 