Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all the other information included in the Form 10-K, in evaluating our company, our business, and our prospects. Our performance is influenced by a variety of economic, social, and political factors. Our performance is influenced by a variety of economic, social, and political factors. General economic conditions and consumer spending patterns can negatively impact our operating results. Economic uncertainty, unfavorable employment levels, declines in consumer confidence, increases in consumer debt levels, increased commodity prices, and other economic factors may affect consumer spending on discretionary items and adversely affect the demand for our products. Economic conditions also affect governmental political and budgetary policies. As a result, economic conditions also can have an effect on the sale of our products to law enforcement, government, and military customers. Political and other factors also can affect our performance. Concerns about presidential, congressional, and state elections and legislature and policy shifts resulting from those elections can affect the demand for our products. For example, we experienced strong consumer demand for our firearm products following a new administration taking office in Washington, D.C. in 2009. In addition, speculation surrounding increased gun control at the federal, state, and local level and heightened fears of terrorism and crime can affect consumer demand for our products. Currently, federal and several states’ legislatures are considering additional legislation relating to the regulation of firearms. These proposed bills are extremely varied, but many seek either to restrict the makeup of a firearm, including restrictions on magazine capacity, or ban the sale and, in some cases, the ownership of various types of firearms. In addition, if such restrictions are enacted and they are incongruent, we could find it difficult, expensive, or even impossible to comply with them, impeding new product development and distribution of existing products. We remain dependent on the sale of our firearm products in the sporting goods distribution channel. We manufacture a wide array of handguns, modern sporting rifles, hunting rifles, black powder firearms, handcuffs, and firearm-related products and accessories for sale to a wide variety of customers, including gun enthusiasts, collectors, hunters, sportsmen, competitive shooters, individuals desiring home and personal protection, law enforcement agencies and officers, and military agencies in the United States and throughout the world. We have made substantial efforts during the last several years to increase our sales to law enforcement and military agencies in the United States and throughout the world. Our efforts to increase firearms sales to law enforcement agencies has been successful to date with a number of agencies in the United States and agencies abroad selecting or approving for carry our firearms. We have not, however, yet secured any major contracts to supply firearms to any large domestic military agencies. Although we believe that we now are able to offer a 14 Table of Contents broad array of competitive products to the military, we cannot predict whether or when we will be able to secure any major military supply contracts. As a result, approximately 89.1% of our net firearm sales remain in the sporting goods distribution channel. From time to time, we have been capacity constrained. From time to time, we have been capacity constrained and have been unable to satisfy on a timely basis the demand for some of our products. Capacity constraints were factors in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012 despite our achieving significant improvements in our production throughput as a result of enhanced production methods, the purchase of additional equipment, and the expansion of our supply base for capacity relief on targeted constrained processes. During the last several fiscal years, we also have enhanced our manufacturing productivity by adding capacity, increasing daily production quantities, increasing operational availability of equipment, reducing machinery down time, extending machinery useful life, and increasing manufacturing efficiency. Future significant increases in consumer demand for our products or increased business from law enforcement or military agencies may require us to expand further our manufacturing capacity, particularly through the purchase of additional manufacturing equipment and the addition of manufacturing space. We may not be able to increase our capacity in time to satisfy increases in demand that may occur from time-to-time, and we may not have adequate financial resources to increase capacity to meet demand. Capacity constraints may prevent us from satisfying customer orders and result in a loss of market share to competitors that are not capacity constrained. In addition, we may suffer excess capacity and increased overhead costs if we increase our capacity to meet actual or anticipated demand and that demand decreases or does not materialize. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success. Our Springfield, Massachusetts facility is critical to our success, as we currently produce the majority of our products at this facility. The facility also houses our principal research, development, engineering, design, shipping, sales, marketing, finance, and management functions. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of this facility for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to produce and ship many of our firearm products and to provide service to our customers. We frequently make certain changes in our manufacturing operations to modernize the facility and associated equipment and systems as a result of the age of the facility and the need to introduce certain efficiencies in manufacturing and other processes in order to produce our anticipated volume of products in a more efficient and cost-effective manner. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures with respect to the facility, but we may not be successful in continuing to improve efficiencies. Our efforts to develop new products may be costly and ineffective. Our efforts to develop new products may not be successful, and any new product that we develop may not result in customer or market acceptance. The development of new products is a lengthy and costly process. Any new products that we develop and introduce to the marketplace may be unsuccessful or achieve success that does not meet our expectations for a variety of reasons, including delays in introduction, unfavorable cost comparisons with alternative products, and unfavorable performance. Significant expenses related to proposed new products that prove to be unsuccessful for any reason will adversely affect our operating results. We rely heavily on third parties, including independent sales representatives and agents that act on our behalf. We are often represented by third parties, including independent sales representatives and agents. These representatives and agents sometimes have the ability to enter into agreements on our behalf. The actions of these third parties could adversely affect our business if they enter into low margin contracts or conduct themselves in a manner that damages our reputation in the marketplace. We also face a risk that these third parties could violate domestic or foreign laws, which could put us at risk for prosecution in the United States or internationally. 15 Table of Contents Poor product quality or performance could adversely affect our operating results and reputation. Poor product quality or performance could adversely affect our operating results and reputation. We generally provide a limited one year warranty and a lifetime service policy to the original purchaser of our new firearm products. Product liability claims could harm our reputation; cause us to lose business; and cause us to incur significant warranty, support, and repair costs. We may incur higher medical benefit costs in the future. We are self-insured for our employee medical plan. The average age of our employees is 45 years. Approximately 16% of our employees are age 60 or over. While our medical costs in recent years have generally increased at the same level as the regional average, the age of our workforce could result in higher than anticipated medical claims, resulting in an increase in our costs beyond what we have experienced or expect. We have stop-loss coverage in place for catastrophic events, but the aggregate impact may have an effect on our profitability. Certain provisions in federal healthcare legislation, in particular the “unlimited lifetime benefit” that eliminated the practice of capping the amount of medical benefits available to an individual, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are forced to provide an “unlimited lifetime benefit,” we would expect our medical costs to increase significantly. Liability insurance is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. Liability insurance coverage is expensive and from time to time may be difficult to obtain. Our liability insurance costs were $4.7 million in fiscal 2014 and $6.1 million in fiscal 2013. An inability to obtain liability insurance, significant increases in the cost of insurance we obtain, or losses in excess of our liability insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is seasonal. Historically, our fourth fiscal quarter ending April 30 has been our strongest quarter with industry events and distributor shows heavily scheduled during the early spring months. In addition, because of our operating schedule, which includes a summer and a winter shutdown, we have increased operating days during our fourth fiscal quarter, which allows our shipping and production volumes to exceed other quarters. As a result of our acquisition of Thompson/Center Arms, the degree to which summer seasonality impacts our business has slightly lessened because the hunting industry retailers generally take delivery of products during the summer months, well in advance of the fall hunting season. Shortages of, and price increases for, components, parts, raw materials, and other supplies may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs. Although we manufacture most of the components for our firearms, we purchase certain components and parts, including polymer pistol frames, bolt carriers, rifle receivers, magazines, small parts, barrels, and rifle stocks, from third parties. We also purchase ammunition for product testing. Most of our major suppliers are U.S.-based and provide components and parts, such as cutting tools, polymer components, and metal-injected-molded components. The costs of these components and parts are at competitive rates. We have become increasingly dependent on a small number of key vendors that supply components and parts for our firearms as a result of our decision to enhance our manufacturing flexibility by using third parties that can supplement our internal capacity to better react to changes in market conditions. We also use numerous raw materials in producing and testing our products, including steel, wood, lead, brass, and plastics. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components, parts, raw materials, and other supplies from independent sources necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the components, parts, raw materials, and other supplies used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. In most cases, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we could be subject to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our suppliers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce the components and parts 16 Table of Contents that we use in our products. The time lost in seeking and acquiring new sources could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. Shortages of ammunition also can adversely affect the demand for our products. Damage or disruption to manufacturing and distribution capabilities of our suppliers because of severe or catastrophic events, including weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, or pandemics could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Although we have insurance to cover potential loss from our suppliers for these events, we could experience losses in excess of our insured limits. In addition, failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on us, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Our new enterprise resource planning system could cause disruption to our operations. We transitioned to a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system during fiscal 2014 utilizing SAP. We experienced some disruption in August 2013 as we introduced the new SAP system. If the ERP system does not perform as expected or if we experience renewed disruptions in that new system, or upon implementation of additional modules, it could impede our ability to manufacture products, order materials, generate management reports, invoice customers, and comply with laws and regulations. Any of these types of disruptions could have a negative effect on our net sales and profitability. In addition, the implementation has and will continue to require significant resources and refinement to fully realize the expected benefits of the system. A significant disruption in our computer systems or a cyber-security breach could adversely affect our operations. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, inventory replenishment, and other processes. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from various sources, including power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, vandalism, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events, and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly, or otherwise become compromised or unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any compromise of our data security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information, and a loss of confidence in our data security measures, which could harm our business. We face intense competition that could result in our losing or failing to gain market share and suffering reduced sales. We operate in intensely competitive markets that are characterized by competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Any movement away from high-quality, domestic firearms to lower priced or comparable foreign alternatives would adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources and, in certain cases, may have lower cost structures than we possess and that may afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, to negotiate lower prices on raw materials and components, to deliver competitive products at lower prices, and to introduce new products and respond to customer requirements more effectively and quickly than we can. Competition in the firearm industry is primarily based on innovation, quality, reliability, durability, price, performance, consumer brand awareness, and customer service and support. Our ability to compete in one or more of these areas could have a negative impact on our business. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, which could impede our growth. We have entered into strategic alliances in the past and anticipate that we will enter into new strategic alliances in the future. We continually explore strategic alliances designed to expand our product offerings, enter 17 Table of Contents new markets, and improve our distribution channels. Any new strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. Acquisitions involve significant risks, and any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We may in the future expand our operations through strategic acquisitions in order to enhance existing products and offer new products, enter new markets and businesses, strengthen and avoid interruption from our supply chain, and enhance our position in current markets and business. Acquisitions involve significant risks. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size, and success of any future acquisitions. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. Acquisitions also may become more difficult in the future as we or others acquire the most attractive candidates. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. Our ability to complete acquisitions that we desire to make in the future will depend upon various factors, including the following: • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices; • the ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities; • the availability of cash resources, borrowing capacity, or stock at favorable price levels to provide required purchase prices in acquisitions; • the ability of management to devote sufficient attention to acquisition efforts; and • the ability to obtain any requisite governmental or other approvals. As a part of any potential acquisition, we may engage in discussions with various acquisition candidates. In connection with these discussions, we and each potential acquisition candidate may exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the prospective acquisition candidate agrees not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time and agrees to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition, such as preparing audited financial information. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time-to-time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated, but may result in increased legal, consulting, and other costs. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with future acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the size, timing, and success of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Consequently, our operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These interim fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we finance any future acquisitions in whole or in part through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use our common stock for acquisitions will depend on the market price of our common stock from time-to-time and the willingness of potential acquisition candidates to accept our common stock as full or partial consideration for the sale of their businesses. Our inability to use our common stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue an acquisition could limit our growth. 18 Table of Contents We have limited acquisition experience. Our acquisitions of Thompson/Center Arms in January 2007 and SWSS in July 2009 resulted in substantial write-offs. Our purchase of substantially all the net assets of TTPP was a vertical integration and is too recent to assess. Any future acquisitions may not meet our strategic objectives or perform as anticipated. Any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, and harm our operations. In order to pursue a successful acquisition, we may need to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our sales and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. We may be unable to complete effectively an integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth, and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional sales as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. The integration of acquired businesses involves numerous risks, including the following: • the potential disruption of our core businesses; • risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with increased regulatory or compliance matters; • failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of the acquired business with our business; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company; • meeting the challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results; • the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions; and • the challenge of creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems. Our growth strategy may require significant additional funds, the amount of which will depend upon our working capital and general corporate needs. Any borrowings made to finance operations or future acquisitions could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations, or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 Table of Contents From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide funds for the expansion of our business. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such financing requirements at this time. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. During fiscal 2014, we sold an aggregate of $47.1 million of 5.875% Senior Notes due 2017, or the “5.875% Senior Notes”, to various qualified institutional buyers in exchange for approximately $42.8 million of our outstanding 9.5% Senior Notes due 2016, or the “9.5% Senior Notes”, from existing holders of such notes. We also issued an additional $52.9 million of new 5.875% Senior Notes for cash. The remaining $712,000 of 9.5% Senior Notes outstanding after the exchange noted above were extinguished via legal defeasance during fiscal 2014. As a result of this transaction, our indebtedness increased by $56.4 million and our debt service requirements increased by $1.8 million per annum. The degree to which we are now leveraged as a result of this transaction and our repurchase of $135.0 million of our common stock through a tender offer and in the open market could adversely affect our ability to obtain further financing for working capital, acquisitions, or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial condition, business environment, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The failure to manage our growth could adversely affect our operations. To continue to expand our business and enhance our competitive position, we must make significant investments in systems, equipment, facilities, and personnel. In addition, we may commit significant funds to enhance our sales, marketing, information technology, research and development, and licensing efforts in order to expand our business. As a result of the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses, our failure to increase sufficiently our net sales to offset these increased costs would adversely affect our operating results. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operations. We have substantially increased the number of our manufacturing and design programs and plan to expand further the number and diversity of our programs in the future. Managing our planned growth effectively will require us to • enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • enhance our facilities and purchase additional equipment, which will include ongoing modernization and expansion of our Springfield, Massachusetts and Houlton, Maine facilities; and • successfully hire, train, and motivate additional employees, including additional personnel for our technological, sales, marketing, and licensing efforts. The expansion of our products and customer base may result in increases in our overhead and selling expenses. We also may be required to increase staffing and other expenses as well as our expenditures on capital equipment and leasehold improvements in order to meet the demand for our products. Any increase in expenditures in anticipation of future sales that do not materialize would adversely affect our profitability. In fiscal 2011, we were awarded a $6.0 million refundable tax credit from the Massachusetts Economic Assistance Coordinating Council under the Economic Development Incentive Program, or EDIP. This credit was granted by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in consideration of our restructuring plan to move the production of our hunting products from New Hampshire to Massachusetts and is subject to our compliance with a written EDIP Investment Analysis Plan, including the requirement to hire 225 employees during calendar year 2011 and to invest $62.9 million over five years on qualified depreciable assets. If significant external factors prevent us from maintaining the required level of employment or investment in the future, we may be required to repay part or all of the tax credit received. Through the end of fiscal 2014, we recorded a total of $5.9 million in tax credits because of our compliance with the written EDIP Investment Analysis Plan. The remaining refundable tax credit will be earned over the next three years if we continue to comply with the EDIP Investment Analysis Plan. 20 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent upon our brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Our brand recognition and reputation are critical aspects of our business. We believe that maintaining and further enhancing our brands, particularly our Smith & Wesson, M&P, and Thompson/Center Arms brands, as well as our reputation are critical to retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in our markets continues to develop. We anticipate that our advertising, marketing, and promotional efforts will increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to seek to enhance our brands and consumer demand for our products. Historically, we have relied on print and electronic media advertising to increase consumer awareness of our brands to increase purchasing intent and conversation. We anticipate that we will increasingly rely on other forms of media advertising, including social media and e-marketing. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising, promotion, public relations, and marketing programs. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue and the efficacy of these activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to do the following: • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing, and promotional expenditures; • select the right markets, media, and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media, and specific media vehicle; and • effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs. Increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels could increase our marketing and advertising expenses or cause us to choose less expensive but possibly less effective marketing and advertising channels. If we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may utilize marketing and advertising channels with significantly higher costs than our current channels, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. Implementing new marketing and advertising strategies also would increase the risk of devoting significant capital and other resources to endeavors that do not prove to be cost effective. We also may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not generate sufficient levels of brand awareness and conversation or result in increased revenue. Even if our marketing and advertising expenses result in increased revenue, the increase might not offset our related expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace or supplement existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly or more effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our customer base could be adversely affected, and our business, operating results, financial condition, and reputation could suffer. We may have difficulty collecting amounts owed to us. Certain of our customers have experienced, and may in the future experience, credit-related issues. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of customers, but these evaluations may not be completely effective. We grant payment terms to most customers ranging from 30 to 90 days and do not generally require collateral. However, in some instances we provide longer payment terms, particularly as it relates to our hunting products. Should more customers than we anticipate experience liquidity issues, or if payment is not received on a timely basis, we may have difficulty collecting amounts owed to us by such customers and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. One of our customers accounted for approximately 13.4%, 11.6%, and 12.2% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. This customer accounted for approximately $11.7 million, or 20.1%, of total accounts receivable as of April 30, 2014. 21 Table of Contents Our inability to protect our intellectual property or obtain the right to use intellectual property from third parties could impair our competitive advantage, reduce our sales, and increase our costs. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may provide only limited protection. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights or obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property from third parties could reduce our sales and increase our costs. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Patents may not be issued for the patent applications that we have filed or may file in the future. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. We have registered certain of our trademarks in the United States and other countries. We may be unable to enforce existing or obtain new registrations of principle or other trademarks in key markets. Failure to obtain or enforce such registrations could compromise our ability to protect fully our trademarks and brands and could increase the risk of challenges from third parties to our use of our trademarks and brands. In the past, we did not consistently require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, employment agreements, or proprietary information and invention agreements; however, such agreements are now required. Therefore, our former employees and consultants may try to claim some ownership interest in our intellectual property and may use our intellectual property competitively and without appropriate limitations. We may incur substantial expenses and devote significant resources in prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. We may become involved in litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop intellectual property that is similar or superior to our intellectual property, duplicate our intellectual property, or design around our patents and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we sell products or from which competing products may be sold. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our intellectual property and products that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may prove to be inadequate and competitors may be able to independently develop similar intellectual property. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the markets for our products. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business. In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We face risks associated with international activities. Political and economic conditions abroad may result in a reduction of our sales in numerous foreign countries; our purchase of ammunition magazines from Italy; and our purchase of accessories from China. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could reduce our ability to sell our products in foreign markets, the ability of foreign customers to purchase our products, and our ability to import parts from foreign suppliers. 22 Table of Contents Our foreign sales create a number of logistical and communication challenges. These activities also expose us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following: • compliance with U.S. and local laws and regulatory requirements including adverse changes in those laws and requirements; • transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • limitations on imports and exports; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • the possibility of appropriation of our assets without just compensation; • taxes, tariffs, and duties; • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • political or economic instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts. The investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, for potential Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, violations as described below caused us to make substantial changes in our foreign sales personnel and foreign representatives, modify our processes, and cease sales in certain foreign countries. These actions have had and can be expected to continue to have a material adverse effect on the level of our foreign sales. We are subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the ATF. If we fail to comply with the ATF rules and regulations, the ATF may limit our activities or growth, fine us, or ultimately put us out of business. Our business, as well as the business of all producers and marketers of firearms and firearm parts, is also subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and protocols. Applicable laws require the licensing of all persons manufacturing, importing, or selling firearms as a business; require background checks for purchasers of firearms; impose waiting periods between the purchase of a firearm and the delivery of a firearm; prohibit the sale of firearms to certain persons, such as those below a certain age and persons with criminal records; regulate the interstate sale of handguns; prohibit the interstate mail-order sale of firearms; regulate our employment of personnel with criminal convictions; restrict access to firearm manufacturing facilities for individuals from other countries or with criminal convictions; and prohibit the private ownership of fully automatic weapons. From time to time, congressional committees consider proposed bills and various states enact laws relating to the regulation of firearms. These proposed bills and enacted state laws often seek either to restrict or ban the sale and, in some cases, the ownership of various types of firearms. The regulation of firearms could become more restrictive in the future and any such restriction would harm our business. In addition, these laws, regulations, and protocols, as well as their interpretation by regulatory authorities, may change at any time. There can be no assurance that such changes to the laws, regulations, and protocols or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition, a significant number of our products are serial number controlled and detailed acquisition and disposition records must be kept to ensure compliance with federal regulations as administered by the ATF. Also, the export of our products is controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. ITAR implements the provisions of the Arms Export Control Act as described in the Code of Federal Regulations and is enforced by the U.S. Department of State. Among its many provisions, ITAR requires a license application for the export of firearms and congressional approval for any application with a total value of $1 million or higher. Further, because our manufacturing process includes certain toxic, flammable, and explosive chemicals, we are subject to the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards, or CFATS, as administered by the Department of Homeland Security, which requires that we take additional reporting and security measures related to our manufacturing process. 23 Table of Contents In addition, like many other manufacturers, we are subject to compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Massachusetts data privacy laws, and many other regulations surrounding employment law, environmental law, and taxation. Compliance with all of these regulations is costly and time consuming. Although we take every measure to ensure compliance with the many regulations we are subject to, inadvertent violation of any of these regulations could cause us to incur fines and penalties and may also lead to restrictions on our ability to manufacture and sell our products and services and to import or export the products that we sell. We are subject to lawsuits and governmental investigations and inquiries. We are currently involved in numerous lawsuits, including a lawsuit involving a municipality and several product liability lawsuits. We are also involved in purported stockholder derivative lawsuits. These actions were brought by putative plaintiffs on behalf of our company against certain of our officers and directors. The putative plaintiffs seek changes to our corporate governance, unspecified damages on behalf of our company from the individual defendants, and recovery of attorneys’ fees. We are vigorously defending ourselves in the lawsuits to which we are subject. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not have to pay significant damages or amounts in settlement above insurance coverage. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation could harm our business. Litigation of this nature also is expensive and time consuming and diverts the time and attention of our management. Reference is made to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these and other lawsuits to which we are subject. We have been and may continue to be subject to governmental investigations and inquiries. Such investigations and inquiries could subject us to various sanctions, including significant civil and criminal penalties, the indictment of our company or various of our officers and employees, our being prevented from bidding on domestic military and government contracts, our disbarment by the U.S. Department of State, private civil litigation arising out of the outcome of the investigations or inquiries, the diversion of time and attention of our management from normal business operations, and a negative impact on the perception of our company by investors, customers, and others. We were under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice for potential FCPA violations. On January 19, 2010, the DOJ unsealed indictments of 22 individuals from the law enforcement and military equipment industries, one of whom was our former Vice President-Sales, International & U.S. Law Enforcement. We were not charged in the indictment. We also were served with a Grand Jury subpoena for the production of documents. Since that time, the DOJ has been conducting an investigation to determine whether we have violated the FCPA and we have continued to cooperate fully with the DOJ in this matter. On February 21, 2012, the DOJ filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the indictments of the remaining defendants who are pending trial, including our former Vice President-Sales, International & U.S. Law Enforcement. On February 24, 2012, the district court granted the motion to dismiss. Following extensive investigation and evaluation, the DOJ declined to pursue any FCPA charges against us and closed its investigation. The DOJ has noted our “thorough cooperation” in correspondence to the company. We are under investigation by the SEC for potential violation of federal securities laws. In May 2010, we received a letter from the staff of the SEC giving notice that the SEC was conducting a non-public, fact-finding inquiry to determine whether there have been any violations of the federal securities laws. It appears this civil inquiry was triggered in part by the DOJ investigation into potential FCPA violations. We have always taken, and continue to take seriously, our obligation as an industry leader to foster a responsible and ethical culture, which includes adherence to laws and industry regulations in the United States and abroad. We are cooperating fully with the SEC in this matter and have undertaken a comprehensive review of company policies and procedures. We are in the final stages of discussions with the SEC staff that have brought 24 Table of Contents us close to a resolution. Any future agreement is subject to final review and approval by the SEC Commissioners. Based upon the status of current discussions, we have estimated and accrued an expense of approximately $2.0 million in fiscal 2014. Environmental laws and regulations may impact our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws that regulate or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, CERCLA, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by RCRA. CERCLA, RCRA, and related state laws subject us to the potential obligation to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of certain pollutants at our manufacturing facilities and at third-party or formerly owned sites at which contaminants generated by us may be located. This requires us to make expenditures of both a capital and expense nature. In our efforts to satisfy our environmental health and safety responsibilities and to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we maintain policies relating to the environmental health and safety standards for our operations and conduct programs to monitor compliance with various environmental regulations. However, in the normal course of our manufacturing operations, we may become subject to governmental proceedings and orders pertaining to waste disposal, air emissions, and water discharges into the environment. We believe based on the information available to us, that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental regulations. From a remediation perspective, we may not have identified all existing contamination on our properties and we cannot predict whether our operations will cause contamination in the future. As a result, we could incur additional costs to clean up contamination that exceed the amount of our reserves. We will periodically review the probable and reasonably estimable environmental costs in order to update the environmental reserves. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict with certainty the impact on us of future environmental health and safety compliance requirements or of the cost of resolution of future regulatory proceedings and claims, in part because the scope of the remedies that may be required is not certain, liability under federal environmental laws is joint and several in nature, and environmental health and safety laws and regulations are subject to modification and changes in interpretation. Additional or changing environmental health and safety regulation may become burdensome in the future, and any such development could have an adverse effect on us. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy significant debt service obligations. As of April 30, 2014, our consolidated long-term indebtedness was $100.0 million. We did not have any short-term indebtedness as of April 30, 2014. As discussed elsewhere herein, we intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and high-yield capital market debt. Our indebtedness, after taking into account additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility and high yield capital market, and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; • limiting, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • having a material adverse effect on our business if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, because such failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all or a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash. To a certain extent, our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity. Our governing documents and Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and discourage a takeover. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Nevada law make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and make a takeover more difficult to complete, even if such a transaction were in our stockholders’ interest or might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Our board of directors has the legal power and authority to determine the terms of an offering of shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for these shares, to the extent of our shares of authorized and unissued capital stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of April 30, 2014, there were 55,352,679 shares of our common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities laws, unless held by an “affiliate” of our company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the securities laws. Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, officers, and certain principal stockholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 described below. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144, who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and that non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. As of April 30, 2014, we had outstanding nonqualified stock options to purchase 2,258,349 shares of common stock under our incentive stock plans and other option agreements, 567,775 undelivered time-based restricted stock units, and 447,700 unearned performance-based restricted stock units under our incentive stock 26 Table of Contents plans. We had issued 176,204 of the 6,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan during fiscal 2014. We have registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to our incentive stock plans and available for issuance pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Shares covered by such registration statements upon the exercise of stock options or pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. We may issue securities that could dilute stockholder ownership and the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to us. We may delay, limit, or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. We may also issue equity securities as consideration for acquisitions we may make. The issuance of additional common stock in the future, including shares that we may issue pursuant to option grants, may result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Our operating results may involve significant fluctuations. Various factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results. These factors include the following: • the volume of customer orders relative to our capacity; • the success of product and service introductions and market acceptance of new products by us and our competitors; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of future customer orders; • effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • ability to manage inventory and inventory obsolescence; • pricing and other competitive pressures; and • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any period as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of many factors. Many factors could affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: • variations in our operating results; • the relatively small public float of our common stock; • introductions of new products and services by us or our competitors; • the success of our distributors; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; • general economic, political, and market conditions and consumer spending patterns; • governmental policies and regulations; 27 Table of Contents • the general performance of the markets in which we participate; and • factors relating to suppliers and competitors. In addition, market demand for small-capitalization stocks, and price and volume fluctuations in the stock market unrelated to our performance, could result in significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. The performance of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise equity in the public markets and adversely affect the growth of our business. We depend on key personnel, our business may be harmed, if we fail to retain and attract skilled management and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management team, including P. James Debney, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Debney or one or more of our other key executives or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Except for Mr. Debney, we do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of any of our executive officers or any of our other employees. We employ all of our executive officers and key employees on an at-will basis, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and without advance notice, subject, to certain severance obligations upon termination. In order to retain valuable employees, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we regard our ability as a public company to grant stock-based compensation as an important component of our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The value to employees of stock-based compensation over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other companies. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled management personnel. We plan to continue to expand our work force to continue to enhance our business and operating results. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and knowledge that we require, particularly as a result of ongoing firearm industry consolidation and other industry developments. Many of the other companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those which we have to offer. If we are not able to retain our current key personnel, or attract the necessary qualified key personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives and our ability to pursue our business strategy. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. New employees may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our recruiting, training, and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 