ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information provided in this Annual Report. The risks described below are those we currently believe may materially affect us. An investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk, and should be considered only by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. Risks related to our industry, business and strategy Because we may not be able to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for some of our products, we may not generate revenues in the amounts we expect, or in the amounts necessary to continue our business. Our existing products as well as our manufacturing facility must meet quality standards and are subject to inspection by a number of domestic regulatory and other governmental and non-governmental agencies. All of our proposed and existing products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and/or other domestic and international governmental, public health agencies, regulatory bodies or non-governmental organizations. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. The process of obtaining required approvals or clearances varies according to the nature of, and uses for, a specific product. These processes can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human or animal clinical trials, sampling activities, and other costly, time-consuming procedures. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that the authority will grant an approval or clearance for product. Each authority may impose its own requirements and can delay or refuse to grant approval or clearance, even though a product has been approved in another country. The time taken to obtain approval or clearance varies depending on the nature of the application and may result in the passage of a significant period of time from the date of submission of the application. Delays in the approval or clearance processes increase the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling the subject products, and we may determine to devote our resources to different products. Changes in government regulations could increase our costs and could require us to undergo additional trials or procedures, or could make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. Changes in government regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because we may have to incur additional expenses if we are required to change or implement new testing, manufacturing and control procedures. If we are required to devote resources to develop such new procedures, we may not have sufficient resources to devote to research and development, marketing, or other activities that are critical to our business. We can manufacture and sell our products only if we comply with regulations and quality standards established by government agencies such as the FDA and the USDA as well as by non-governmental organizations such as the ISO and WHO. We have implemented a quality system that is intended to comply with applicable regulations. Although FDA approval is not required for the export of our products, there are export regulations promulgated by the FDA that specifically relate to the export of our products. Although we believe that we meet the regulatory standards required for the export of our products, these regulations could change in a manner that could adversely impact our ability to export our products. Our products may not be able to compete with new diagnostic products or existing products developed by well-established competitors, which would negatively affect our business. The diagnostic industry is focused on the testing of biological specimens in a laboratory or at the point-of-care and is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Our principal competitors often have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several companies produce diagnostic tests that compete directly with our testing product line, including but not limited to, Orasure Technologies, Alere and Trinity Biotech. Furthermore these and/or other companies have or may have products incorporating molecular and/or other superior technologies that over time could directly compete with our testing product line. As new products incorporating new technologies enter the market, our products may become obsolete or a competitor’s products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than ours. 14 We have granted Alere exclusive rights to market our SURE CHECK® HIV 1/2 in the United States and non-exclusive rights in the rest of the world and exclusive rights to market our HIV 1/2 STAT PAK® in the U.S. only. Alere has no rapid HIV tests that are approved for marketing in the U.S. and Alere is obligated to inform us of any such products within certain time frames. We believe that Alere is committed to successfully marketing our products in the U.S.. Alere may however choose to develop or acquire competing products for marketing in the U.S. and such an action could have at least a temporary material adverse effect on the marketing of these products until such time as alternative marketing arrangements could be implemented. In particular Alere manufactures and markets outside the United States a rapid HIV test product called Determine® that, with its widely available so-called “3rd generation” test, is the leading screening product used in a large majority of the national algorithms of countries funded by PEPFAR and the Global Fund, as well as many other countries in the world. The newest Determine HIV version is the so called “4th Generation” version Determine test which, according to its claims, detects HIV antibodies and the P24 HIV antigen which is present in HIV positive individuals’ blood samples before antibodies are, and therefore is able to detect HIV infection earlier than tests that solely rely on antibody detection, such as Chembio’s and all of the other currently FDA approved rapid HIV tests, which all require an immune response before detection can occur. The actual performance of the 4th generation Alere product has been inconsistent with regard to meeting these and other performance claims, although recently it has been reformulated, though limited data has been published since such reformulation. Regardless Alere continues to make statements that it is seeking FDA approval of this product which, if approval is granted, would make it a competitive product to the Chembio products that Alere markets as Clearview® Complete (barrel) and Clearview HIV ½ STAT PAK® (cassette). Under our agreements, Alere is in fact expressly permitted to “exploit” such a product (a “permitted competing product”) in the United States without breaching the agreement, though there are defined alternative consequences that would follow in such case: for the cassette product, Chembio may at any time after Alere begins to “exploit” the Determine product in the United States either terminate the agreement with Alere or make the agreement with Alere non-exclusive; for the barrel product, Chembio and StatSure Diagnostics (the other party to the Alere 3-way agreement pertaining to the barrel product) will need to jointly agree to either continue the agreement with Alere or to make the barrel agreement with Alere non-exclusive in the United States. As part of any decision by Chembio to market either product, Alere would expand the lateral flow license granted to allow Chembio to market the product under Chembio brands, if necessary. During 2011 Biolytical, Inc. of Vancouver, Canada received FDA approval and in 2012 received CLIA waiver of a flow-through rapid HIV test called “INSTI”. The technology used in the INSTI test is older than lateral flow, which requires handling of multiple components (3 vials of solution) to perform the test in multiple steps. However, these steps can be accomplished in less than ten minutes, and the actual test results occur in only one minute after those steps are completed. Therefore sample-to-result time is shorter than any of the competitive products. There are settings where that reduce total test time may be a distinct advantage. However, thus far Biolytical’s market penetration has been negligible. Although we have no specific knowledge of any other competitor’s product that are a competitive threat to our product, or that will render our products obsolete, if we fail to maintain and enhance our competitive position or fail to introduce new products and product features, our customers may decide to use products developed by our competitors, which could result in a loss of revenues and cash flow. We have developed an oral fluid rapid HIV test as well as other applications utilizing our Dual Path Platform technology, which we believe will enhance our competitive position in HIV rapid testing and other fields. During 2012 we made significant progress toward the commercialization of this product. However we still have technical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing challenges to meet before we will know whether we can successfully commercialize products incorporating this technology. There can be no assurance that we will overcome these challenges. We plan to introduce our recently FDA -approved DPP® oral fluid HIV test, which test also can be used with blood samples, in the U.S. market under a Chembio brand once it is CLIA-waiver, currently anticipated by the end of 2013, but for which there can be no assurance. Under our 2006 Agreement with Alere, Alere has a right of first negotiation for the right to market any new rapid HIV antibody detection test that we develop. In accordance with this provision in our agreement, we presented this product to Alere in 2007, and in 2007 Alere waived its right of first negotiation under the agreement. While such waiver does not prevent Alere from reconsidering the marketing of this product, we have no reason to believe that they will. Also, although we believe that the primary market opportunity for the DPP® HIV product is for those customers that have a clear preference for an oral fluid HIV test, the product is also likely to compete to some extent with our FDA-approved rapid HIV tests being marketed by Alere. Therefore this could have a material and adverse effect on our business with Alere. 15 More generally, the point-of-care diagnostics industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. As new technologies become introduced into the point-of-care diagnostic testing market, we may be required to commit considerable additional efforts, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products. We may not have the available time and resources to accomplish this, and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which would materially harm our operating results. Although we own our DPP® patent, we own no issued patents covering lateral flow technology, and the field of lateral flow technology is complex and characterized by a substantial amount of litigation, so the risk of potential patent challenges is ongoing for us in spite of our DPP® patent. Moreover, we believe that certain lateral flow patents are going to expire in the next couple of years which may materially impact the competitive landscape. Although we have been granted non-exclusive licenses to the lateral flow patents owned by Alere, there is no assurance that its lateral flow patents will not be challenged or that licenses from other parties may not be required, if available at all. In addition, certain of the Alere patents will expire in the next couple of years which expiration could open the market to certain competitors. In the event that it is determined that a license is required and it is not possible to negotiate a license agreement under a necessary patent, we may be able to modify our HIV rapid test products and other products such that a license would not be necessary. However, there is no assurance that we would be able to do so, and even if accomplished, this alternative could delay or limit our ability to sell these products in the U.S. and other markets, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. On March 13, 2007, our Dual Path Platform Immunoassay Device patent application was issued as United States patent no. 7,189,522. Additional protection for this intellectual property is pending in a number of other countries. This platform has shown improved sensitivity as compared with conventional platforms in a number of studies. However several factors go into the development and performance attributes of products, and the ability of our products to successfully compete will depend on several other factors including but not limited to our having a patent rapid test platform technology. We believe that our Dual Path Platform is outside of the scope of currently issued patents in the field of lateral flow technology, thereby offering the possibility of a greater freedom to operate. However there can be no assurance that our patents or our products incorporating the patent claims will not be challenged at some time in the future. New developments in health treatments or new non-diagnostic products may reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. The development and commercialization of products outside of the diagnostics industry could adversely affect sales of our products. For example, the development of a safe and effective vaccine to HIV or treatments for other diseases or conditions that our products are designed to detect, could reduce, or eventually eliminate the demand for our HIV or other diagnostic products and result in a loss of revenues. We may not have sufficient resources to effectively introduce and market our products, which could materially harm our operating results. Introducing and achieving market acceptance for our rapid HIV tests and other new products will require substantial marketing efforts and will require us and/or our contract partners, sales agents, and/or distributors to make significant expenditures of time and money. In some instances we will be significantly or totally reliant on the marketing efforts and expenditures of our contract partners, sales agents, and/or distributors. If they do not have or commit the expertise and resources to effectively market the products that we manufacture, our operating results will be materially harmed. The success of our business depends on, in addition to the market success of our products, our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity or through borrowing, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds on attractive terms and/or in amounts necessary to continue our business, or at all. Our revenues and gross margins have increased significantly in recent periods, and we have been profitable for four consecutive years. Nevertheless, prior to 2009 we sustained significant operating losses since 2004, and we incurred an operating and net loss as recently as the third quarter of 2012. At December 31, 2012, we had a stockholders’ equity of $13.9 million and a working capital surplus of$7.6 million. The Company estimates that its resources are sufficient to fund its needs through the end of 2013 and beyond. The Company’s liquidity and cash requirements will depend on several factors. These factors include (1) the level of revenues; (2) the extent to which, if any, that revenue level improves operating cash flows; (3) the Company’s investments in research and development, facilities, marketing, regulatory approvals, and other investments it may determine to make; and (4) the Company’s investment in capital equipment and the extent to which it improves cash flow through operating efficiencies. There are no assurances that the Company will remain profitable or generate positive cash flow in 2013 or, in the alternative, be successful in raising sufficient capital to fund its needs through 2013 and thereafter. 16 The increase in revenues we experienced in 2012 was almost entirely attributable to the distribution of our DPP® products in Brazil by the Ministry of Health as supplied by our contract partner, the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ). However the agreements we have with FIOCRUZ have limited purchase requirements remaining for most of the five products that, in the aggregate, are less than our revenues realized from FIOCRUZ in 2012, and even these requirements pertain only in order to trigger a technology transfer right for the applicable product. Moreover, we have recently been advised by FIOCRUZ that the scale-up of the Brazilian Ministry of Health’s programs that are utilizing our HIV and Syphilis tests is going more slowly than anticipated., Taken together, this is likely to result in significantly reduced revenues to FIOCRUZ in 2013 versus 2012. Therefore, in order for our 2013 revenues to be of the same level as in 2012 we would need to increase revenues from other customers in excess of the decreased 2013 sales to FIOCRUZ, which is possible. We anticipate increased revenues from Alere in 2013 and we are attempting to increase international sales of our products. However, a number of factors can slow or prevent these increases, or substantially increase the cost of achieving these increases assuming they are achieved: ● economic conditions and the absence of or reduction in available funding sources; ● regulatory requirements and customs regulations; ● cultural and political differences; ● foreign exchange rates, currency fluctuations and tariffs; ● dependence on and difficulties in managing international distributors or representatives; ● the creditworthiness of foreign entities; ● difficulties in foreign accounts receivable collection; ● competition; and ● pricing. If we are unable to increase our revenues from domestic and/or international sales to make up for the decreases in sales to FIOCRUZ, our operating results will be materially harmed. Although we have an ethics and anti-corruption policy in place, and have no knowledge or reason to know of any practices by our employees, agents or distributors that could be construed as in violation of such policies, our business includes sales of products to countries where there is or may be widespread corruption. Chembio has a policy in place prohibiting its employees, distributors and agents from engaging in corrupt business practices, including activities prohibited by the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Nevertheless, because we work through independent sales agents and distributors (and do not have any employees or subsidiaries) outside the United States, we do not have control over the day-to-day activities of such independent agents and distributors. In addition, in the donor- funded markets in Africa where we sell our products, there is significant oversight from PEPFAR, the Global Fund, and advisory committees comprised of technical experts concerning the development and establishment of national testing protocols. This is a process that includes an overall assessment of a product which includes extensive product performance evaluations including five active collaborations and manufacturer’s quality systems, as well as price and delivery. In Brazil where we have had a total of six product collaborations with FIOCRUZ, those programs that our products are or may be deployed in are all funded by the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Although FIOCRUZ is affiliated with the Brazilian Ministry of Health, it is not its exclusive supplier. However because each of our collaborations with FIOCRUZ incorporates a technology transfer aspect, we believe we have a competitive advantage versus other suppliers to the Brazilian Ministry of Health, assuming other aspects of our product offering through FIOCRUZ are otherwise competitive in comparison. We have no knowledge or reason to know of any activities by our employees, distributors or sales agents of any actions which could be in violation of the FCPA, although there can be no assurance of this. We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, and we cannot be sure that these laws or agreements adequately protect our rights. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, strategic relationships, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and name recognition are essential to our success. All our management personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. If personnel leave our employment, in some cases we would be required to protect our intellectual property rights pursuant to common law theories which may be less protective than provisions of employment, non-competition or non-disclosure agreements. 17 We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, enter into license agreements for various materials and methods employed in our products, and enter into strategic relationships for distribution of the products. These strategies afford only limited protection. We currently have some foreign patents issued, and we are seeking additional patent protection in several other foreign jurisdictions for our DPP® technology. We have licenses to reagents (antigens and peptides) used in several of our products and products under development Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary assets, and respect the intellectual property rights of others, we participate in several markets where intellectual property rights protections are of little or no value. This can place our products and our company at a competitive disadvantage. Despite efforts we make to protect our confidential information, such as entering confidentiality agreements in connection with new business opportunities, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to expend substantial resources in asserting or protecting our intellectual property rights, or in defending suits related to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights could substantially delay product development or commercialization activities because some of our available funds would be diverted away from our business activities. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights might include state, federal or foreign court litigation as well as patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. To facilitate development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining and maintaining these licenses, which may not be available, may require the payment of up-front fees and royalties. In addition, if we are unable to obtain these types of licenses, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed or precluded. Our continued growth depends on retaining our current key employees and attracting additional qualified personnel, and we may not be able to do so. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the skills and experience of our executive officers, management and sales, marketing, operations and scientific staff. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical products businesses, geographic considerations, our ability to offer competitive compensation, relocation packages, benefits, and/or other reasons. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to effectively manufacture, sell and market our products to meet the demands of our strategic partners in a timely fashion, or to support internal research and development programs. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced scientists and other personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. We have entered into employment contracts with our Chief Executive Officer and President, Lawrence Siebert, and our Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Javan Esfandiari. Due to the specific knowledge and experience of these executives regarding the industry, technology and market, the loss of the services of either one of them would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. The contract with Mr. Siebert provides that Mr. Siebert will serve as the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company through May 11, 2013. The contract with Mr. Esfandiari has a term of three years ending March 2016. We have obtained a key man insurance policy for Mr. Esfandiari. We believe our success depends in part on the continued funding of and our ability to participate in large testing programs in the U.S. and worldwide and funding may be reduced, or discontinued and/or we may not be able to participate for other reasons. We believe it to be in our best interests to meaningfully participate in large testing programs. Moreover many of these programs are funded by governments and other donors and there can be no assurance that funding will not be reduced or completely discontinued. Participation in these programs also requires alignment and engagement with the many other participants in these programs including the World Health Organization, U.S. Center for Disease Control, U.S. Agency for International Development, foreign governments and their agencies, non-governmental organizations, and HIV service organizations. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to participate in these programs, our operating results could be materially harmed. 18 Although we were profitable in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability in 2013. From the inception of Chembio Diagnostic Systems, Inc. in 1985 through the period ended December 31, 2008, we incurred net losses and we have only become profitable during the last four years. Moreover in 2013 we expect to make substantial expenditures for regulatory submissions, product development and other purposes which may impact profitability. Our ability to continue profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products, reduce production and other costs, and to successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. If we are unable to increase our revenues at a rate that is sufficient to achieve profitability, or adequately control and reduce our operating costs, our operating results would be materially harmed. To the extent that we are unable to obtain sufficient product liability insurance or that we incur product liability exposure that is not covered by our product liability insurance, our operating results could be materially harmed. We may be held liable if any of our products, or any product which is made with the use or incorporation of any of the technologies belonging to us, causes injury of any type or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or usage. We have obtained product liability insurance even though we have never received a product liability claim, and have generally not seen product liability claims for screening tests that are accompanied by appropriate disclaimers. Nevertheless, in the event there is a claim, this insurance may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, as we attempt to bring new products to market, we may need to increase our product liability coverage which could be a significant additional expense that we may not be able to afford. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost to protect us, we may be forced to abandon efforts to commercialize our products or those of our strategic partners, which would reduce our revenues. Risks related to our Common Stock Our Common Stock continues to be illiquid, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing market prices. The average daily trading volume of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ market was 44,000 share per day over the three months ended March 1, 2013 as compared to less than 4,375 shares per day (after accounting for the 1 for 8 reverse split that was effectuated on May 30, 2012) over the three months ended March 6, 2012. Therefore, there has been a significant increase in the liquidity of our stock based on this comparison, and our stock began trading on NASDAQ in early June, 2012. However, continued improvements in the liquidity of our stock depends on several factors, including but not limited to the financial results of the Company and overall market conditions, so there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue, or even be maintained. Decreased trading volume in our stock would make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Our management and larger stockholders exercise significant control over our Company. As of March 6, 2013, our named executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders beneficially owned approximately 16.4% of our voting power. In addition, we have one large institutional investor that beneficially owned 8.3% of the stock. For the foreseeable future, and assuming these ownership percentages continue to pertain, to the extent that these parties vote similarly, they may be able to exercise significant control over many matters requiring approval by the board of directors or our stockholders. As a result, they may be able to: ● control the composition of our board of directors; ● control our management and policies; ● determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to stockholders; and ● act in each of their own interests, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of each other or the interests of the other stockholders. 19 