ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. AN INVESTMENT IN OUR STOCK INVOLVES SIGNIFICANT RISKS. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT, BEFORE MAKING A DECISION TO INVEST IN OUR STOCK. IF ANY OF THESE RISKS ACTUALLY OCCURS, OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND PROSPECTS COULD SUFFER. AS A RESULT, THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR STOCK COULD DECLINE AND YOU MAY LOSE PART OR ALL OF YOUR INVESTMENT. OUR CURRENT CASH WILL FUND OUR BUSINESS AS CURRENTLY PLANNED ONLY THROUGH APRIL 2008. WE NEED ADDITIONAL FUNDING OR WE WILL BE FORCED TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. 10 We need immediate and substantial cash to continue our operations. We currently have no funding commitments. Management has projected that cash on hand will be sufficient to allow us to continue our operations only through April 2008, and only if our promissory note holders with matured obligations do not seek to enforce payment of such notes. We therefore will need additional funding, either through equity or debt financings or partnering arrangements, or we will be forced to curtail or cease operations. If we are forced to curtail or cease our operations, even for a short time, we may lose the benefit of data gathered during ongoing studies. If we later obtained sufficient capital to restart operations, the costs and time to achieve our milestones could increase. WE DO NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT CURRENT CASH TO REPAY THE PRINCIPAL AND ACCRUED INTEREST DUE UNDER OUR OUTSTANDING PROMISSORY NOTES, SOME OF WHICH HAVE MATURED. The unsecured subordinated promissory notes we issued to John J. Hagenbuch, our former Chairman, and Peter Knobel, a significant stockholder of our company, matured on January 12, 2008 and March 31, 2008, respectively. The aggregate principal and accrued interest due under these notes as of March 31, 2008 was $4.31million. Additionally, the unsecured subordinated promissory notes we issued to the SMR 1996 Trust III in January 2008 and March 2008 mature in May 2008. The aggregate principal and accrued interest under these notes as of March 31, 2008 was $1.52 million. If the note holders determine to demand payment of matured notes and we have insufficient cash to make the required payments, the note holders could obtain a lien on our assets, including our intellectual property, and upon obtaining a judgment, could force a sale of such assets for their benefit. Under such circumstances, we may need to cease operations or file for protection from claims of our creditors under the federal bankruptcy laws. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND ACCUMULATED DEFICIT, AND WE ANTICIPATE FUTURE LOSSES. We have experienced significant operating losses in each period since our inception. As of December 31, 2007, we have an accumulated deficit of $50.2 million. We expect continuing operating losses and it is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. DUE TO OUR SIGNIFICANT OPERATING LOSSES, ACCUMULATED DEFICIT AND WORKING CAPITAL DEFICIT, THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT AS TO OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We anticipate that our existing funds will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements only through April 2008. We expect to incur substantial additional costs, including costs related to ongoing research and development activities, preclinical studies and trials. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in its report on our 2007 consolidated financial statements an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. IF WE CEASE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN, DUE TO LACK OF FUNDING OR OTHERWISE, YOU MAY LOSE YOUR ENTIRE INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY. Our current plans indicate we will need substantial additional capital for research and development, including costs associated with developing our technology and conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, before we have any anticipated revenue generating products. When we require additional funds, general market conditions or the then-current market price of our common stock may not support capital raising transactions such as additional public or private offerings of our common stock. If we require additional funds and we are unable to obtain them on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, we may be required to scale back our development of new products, sell or license some or all of our technology or assets, or curtail or cease operations. DEPENDING ON OUR METHOD OF RAISING FUNDS, NOW AND IN THE FUTURE, YOUR SHARES MAY BE DILUTED. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted. WE HAVE RELIED ON CAPITAL CONTRIBUTED BY RELATED PARTIES AND SUCH CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN THE FUTURE. 11 During 2007, we completed a private placement of common stock and warrants for aggregate gross proceeds of $1,000,000 with a related party, and borrowed an additional $4,000,000, $3,000,000 of which was borrowed from our former Chairman and $1,000,000 of which was borrowed from an existing shareholder. In the first quarter of 2008, we borrowed an additional $1,500,000 from a related party and may request to borrow an additional $1,000,000 from such person. For more information about these transactions, see "Recent Debt and Equity Financings" in Part II, Item 7 (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition) of this report. We may not be able to obtain capital from related persons in the future. None of the related persons referenced above, nor any of our other officers, directors, or other stockholders, is under any obligation to continue to provide cash to meet our future liquidity needs. IF WE LOSE KEY PERSONNEL OR HAVE TO REDUCE OUR WORKFORCE (INCLUDING OUR KEY SCIENTIFIC AND MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL), OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION EFFORTS MAY NEVER RECOVER. Our success is substantially dependent on the cooperation, retention and performance of our key scientific and technical personnel and advisers. Our scientific and technical staff is comprised of a small number of individuals, and some of these individuals have worked with us for four or more years. If we do not receive funding to continue our operations, we may have to significantly reduce our workforce. Our future success would be dependent upon our ability to hire back key personnel, which may not be possible, or upon our ability to recruit and train replacement personnel, which could be time consuming, and may not be possible in a reasonable time frame. The loss of the services of any of our scientific or technical staff, for financial or other reasons, may therefore significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives and could negatively or permanently impact our business, operating results, and financial condition in the future. COSTS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE WITH, OR OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH, EXISTING AND FUTURE INTERNAL CONTROL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. In future periods, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Preparing for such audit procedures may involve substantial costs and take significant time to complete, which may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Our audit costs will also likely increase due to such procedures. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information. OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOPED OR COMMERCIALIZED, WHICH WOULD HARM US AND FORCE US TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. Our technologies are still in the early stages of development and we do not have any product candidate in clinical trials or on the market. We are currently working to develop our first product candidate, MicroIslet-P(TM). Any product candidate will require significant research and development and preclinical and clinical testing prior to regulatory approval in the United States and other countries. We may not be able to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals for product candidates we develop, to enter clinical trials for any of our product candidates, or to commercialize any products, on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to complete the development, introduction or scale-up of manufacturing of potential products, or if our products do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, we would be forced to curtail or cease operations. OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS RELY ON TECHNOLOGY LICENSED FROM THIRD PARTIES AND TERMINATION OF ANY OF THOSE LICENSES WOULD RESULT IN LOSS OF RIGHTS TO DEVELOP AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH WOULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS. We have exclusive worldwide rights to our technology for the isolation, culture, storage, and encapsulation (microencapsulation) of insulin-producing islet cells from porcine sources, through a license agreement with Duke University. Our license generally may be terminated by Duke University if we fail to perform our obligations, including obligations to conduct a research and development program and develop the licensed products for commercialization. If terminated we would lose the right to develop the licensed products, which would significantly harm our business. The license agreement contemplates that once the research and 12 development program is completed, we and Duke University will agree upon milestones toward commercialization of the licensed products. We will be required to meet those agreed milestones, and if we fail to do so in a material way, our license rights may become non-exclusive. If disputes arise in the negotiation of those milestones, or once agreed upon, over the definition of these requirements or whether we have satisfied the requirements in a timely manner, or if any other obligations in the license agreement are disputed by Duke University, the other party could terminate the agreement and we could lose our rights to develop the licensed technology. WE WILL REQUIRE A SUPPLY OF DESIGNATED PATHOGEN FREE PIGS IN ORDER TO COMMENCE AND CONTINUE HUMAN CLINICAL TRIALS ON OUR MICROISLET P(TM) PRODUCT CANDIDATE. IF WE CANNOT MAINTAIN A SUFFICIENT ONGOING SUPPLY OF THESE PIGS FROM THE SINGLE FACILITY WHICH IS CURRENTLY ABLE TO PRODUCE THEM, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO BUILD OUR OWN FACILITY, WHICH WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE OUR COSTS AND LIKELY SUBSTANTIALLY DELAY OUR ABILITY TO COMMENCE CLINICAL TRIALS. Under the rules of the Food and Drug Administration, islets used for implantation in humans must come from purpose-bred, pathogen free, vaccinated pigs (referred to as designated pathogen free pigs or DPF pigs), raised in a United States Department of Agriculture certified facility specifically designed for biomedical research purposes. Establishing such a herd requires a clean room facility, a significant amount of time, and veterinary expertise. We currently receive DPF pigs for our preclinical research from FIOS Therapeutics, Inc. We have not identified other suppliers in North America that can currently produce DPF pigs to the required specification, although others may exist. If FIOS were to cease providing DPF pigs to us in sufficient quantities, we would be required either to locate another facility which is able to supply DPF pigs, which may not be possible, or to construct and operate our own facility. FIOS will have the right to terminate the supply agreement if we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement, including payments of monthly fees. The cost to construct and operate our own farm facility would materially increase our costs of clinical studies and would likely delay the commencement or continuation of clinical studies for a period of two years or more. We could also experience substantially increased costs and substantial delays if FIOS or any other facility which supplies DPF pigs, including any facility we operate ourselves, were to become contaminated. In such case there would be a delay of at least twelve months before such facility could again deliver DPF pigs. Were any of such events to occur before the commencement of clinical trials such trials might have to be delayed. Were any of such events to occur during clinical trials we may have to halt those clinical trials and could lose the benefit of the data gathered and the costs incurred. We could also lose key staff members and collaborators if clinical trials were substantially delayed. We would be required to continue to pay our operating expenses while we waited to recommence clinical trials and the payment of such expenses may deplete our cash reserves and make it more difficult for us to raise capital for future clinical trials. Our ability to execute our business plan could be threatened and our stock price could decline substantially in response to any of these occurrences. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FORM AND MAINTAIN THE COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS THAT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY REQUIRES AND IF WE CANNOT DO SO, OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP PRODUCTS AND/OR GENERATE REVENUE WILL SUFFER. We must form research collaborations and licensing arrangements with several partners at the same time to operate our business successfully. To succeed we will have to maintain our existing relationships and establish additional collaborations. We may not be able to establish any additional research collaborations or licensing arrangements necessary to develop and commercialize products using our technology on terms favorable to us. If our collaborations are not successful or we are not able to manage multiple collaborations successfully, our programs may suffer. Collaborative agreements generally pose the following risks: o collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from collaborations or may elect not to continue or renew research and development programs; o collaborators may delay clinical trials, under-fund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product, repeat or conduct new clinical trials, or require a new formulation of a product for clinical testing; o collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our future products; 13 o a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; o disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our products or result in significant litigation or arbitration; and o collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, we would experience increased capital requirements if we elected to pursue further development of the product. In addition there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies which have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators. If business combinations involving our collaborators were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate, or cause delays in one or more of our product development programs. DELAYS IN THE COMMENCEMENT OR COMPLETION OF CLINICAL TESTING COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS TO US AND DELAY OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: o obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; o reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and trial sites; o manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; o obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and o identifying, recruiting, and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial. In addition once a clinical trial has begun, patient recruitment and enrollment may be slower than we anticipate. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: o failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; o inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; o unforeseen safety issues; or o lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of any product candidate we advance into clinical trials, the commercial prospects for product candidates we may develop will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any product candidate we may develop will be delayed. In addition many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize MicroIslet-P(TM) or any other product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market during the period we have been delayed and such therapies may have established a competitive advantage over our products. MICROISLET-P(TM), MICROISLET-H(TM) AND ANY OTHER PRODUCT CANDIDATES WE ADVANCE INTO CLINICAL TRIALS ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION, WHICH CAN BE COSTLY AND TIME CONSUMING, CAUSE UNANTICIPATED DELAYS, OR PREVENT THE RECEIPT OF THE REQUIRED APPROVALS TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. 14 The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing, and distribution of any product candidates we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable governmental authorities in foreign markets. In the United States, neither we nor our collaborators are permitted to market our product candidates until we or our collaborators receive approval of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, and/or a New Drug Application, or NDA, from the FDA. The process of obtaining BLA approval, particularly for novel and complex products like MicroIslet-P(TM) and MicroIslet-H(TM), is expensive and often takes many years. Approval policies or regulations may change. Our company has not previously filed a BLA or an NDA with the FDA. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our product candidates. The FDA or any of the corresponding foreign regulatory bodies might delay, limit, or deny approval of any product candidate of ours, and accordingly, delay, limit, or prevent us from generating revenue from that product. Also, recent events implicating questions about the safety of marketed drugs generally, including questions pertaining to the adequacy of labeling, may result in increased caution by the FDA in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy, or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. MICROISLET-P(TM), MICROISLET-H(TM) OR ANY OTHER PRODUCT CANDIDATE WE ADVANCE INTO CLINICAL TRIALS MAY CAUSE UNDESIRABLE SIDE EFFECTS THAT COULD DELAY OR PREVENT ITS REGULATORY APPROVAL OR COMMERCIALIZATION. Undesirable side effects caused by MicroIslet-P(TM), MicroIslet-H(TM) or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing these or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of the product. WHILE WE MAY SEEK TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF VARIOUS REGULATORY MECHANISMS INTENDED TO ACCELERATE DEVELOPMENT AND APPROVAL FOR MICROISLET-P(TM) AND MICROISLET-H(TM) FOR THE TREATMENT OF INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUBMIT A BLA FOR EITHER PRODUCT UNTIL 2011 OR LATER. The FDA's accelerated approval process provides the opportunity for regulatory approval based on surrogate, or substitute, endpoints that are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefits. Drugs and biological products that are intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases and that either demonstrate an improvement over available therapy or that provide therapy where none exists, are eligible for this accelerated approval process. We may not successfully complete clinical trials. Even if clinical trials were successfully completed, there are no assurances that the FDA will accept a BLA on the basis of a single study or review the BLA under the accelerated approval regulations. Failure to obtain review on the basis of a single study or accelerated approval could require us to complete additional and more extensive clinical trials, which would be costly and time consuming and delay potential FDA approval for several years. Even if we are able to obtain accelerated approval from the FDA, the FDA still may not grant our product full approval for commercial sale. The FDA would likely require that we conduct additional post-approval clinical studies as a condition of any approval. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. In addition to the benefits of accelerated approval, fast track designation may lead to designation for priority FDA review, which can be completed in as short of a period as six months, and the ability to submit portions of an application on a rolling basis, as they become available, for 15 required FDA review. Any fast track designation we may obtain may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program or if a competitor's product is approved for the indication we are seeking and our product is not determined to offer any additional therapeutic advantage to that competitor's product. Any fast track designation we may obtain will not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the priority review procedures following the submission of a BLA. Additionally, if fast track designation were to be withdrawn for any product for which we obtain such designation, our ability to receive FDA approval could be delayed considerably. IF WE RECEIVE REGULATORY APPROVAL WE WILL ALSO BE SUBJECT TO ONGOING FDA OBLIGATIONS AND CONTINUED REGULATORY REVIEW, SUCH AS CONTINUED SAFETY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS, AND WE MAY ALSO BE SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL FDA POST-MARKETING OBLIGATIONS. FDA AND CORRESPONDING FOREIGN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE REVENUE AND REQUIRE ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURES TO BRING OUR PRODUCTS TO MARKET. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our products may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition we or our third party manufacturers may be required to undergo a pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities by the FDA and foreign authorities before obtaining marketing approval and will be subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. Such inspections may result in compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval or require the expenditure of money or other resources to correct noncompliance. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators, or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping, and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: o issue warning letters; o impose civil or criminal penalties; o withdraw regulatory approval; o suspend any ongoing clinical trials; o refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; o impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or o seize or detain products or require a product recall. Moreover, in order to market any products outside of the United States, we and our collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks described above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the 16 regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and adversely impact potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable domestic or foreign regulatory requirements, we and our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. THE TRANSPLANTATION OF ANIMAL CELLS INTO HUMANS INVOLVES RISKS WHICH HAVE RESULTED IN ADDITIONAL FDA OVERSIGHT AND WHICH, IN THE FUTURE, MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL REGULATION THAT MAY PREVENT OR DELAY APPROVAL OF OUR POTENTIAL PRODUCTS AND REQUIRE ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURES TO BRING THESE PRODUCTS TO MARKET. Our business involves the transplantation of animal cells into humans, a process known as xenotransplantation. Xenotransplantation poses a risk that viruses or other animal pathogens may be unintentionally transmitted to a human patient. The FDA will require testing to determine whether infectious agents, including porcine endogenous retroviruses, also known as PERV, are present in patients who have received cells, tissues, or organs from porcine sources. While PERV has not been shown to cause any disease in pigs, it is not known what effect, if any, PERV may have on humans. Other companies are currently conducting clinical trials involving the transplantation of porcine cells into humans. The FDA requires lifelong monitoring of all recipients of xenotransplantation products. If PERV or any other virus or infectious agent is detected in tests or samples from these transplant recipients, the FDA may require that we not initiate or halt our clinical trials and perform additional tests to assess the risk of infection to potential patients. This could result in additional costs to us and delay in the trials of our products under development. The FDA has published guidelines for development of xenotransplantation products and is continuing to monitor closely the development of such products to determine if additional guidelines are required as more data is obtained. Failure to comply with FDA guidelines may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. TO BE SUCCESSFUL, OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES MUST BE ACCEPTED BY THE HEALTH CARE COMMUNITY, WHICH CAN BE VERY SLOW TO ADOPT OR UNRECEPTIVE TO NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS. Our product candidates, if approved for marketing, may not achieve market acceptance since hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general may decide to not accept and utilize these products. The product candidates that we are attempting to develop represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of more conventional drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any of our developed products will depend on a number of factors, including: o our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates; o our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market, including in terms of pricing and cost-effectiveness, relative convenience, and ease of administration; o the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and o our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods. 17 If the health care community does not accept our products for any of the foregoing reasons, our revenues from the sale of any approved product would be significantly reduced. THE REIMBURSEMENT STATUS OF NEWLY APPROVED HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS AND TREATMENTS IS NOT ESTABLISHED AND FAILURE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE REIMBURSEMENT COULD LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO MARKET ANY PRODUCTS WE MAY DEVELOP AND DECREASE OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE REVENUE. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates in both domestic and foreign markets successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs, and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. There is significant uncertainty related to the reimbursement of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs and challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, both by limiting coverage and by reducing the level of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products and treatments. For example, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. If third parties fail to provide adequate reimbursement for our products, consumers and health care providers may choose not to use our products, which could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product and prevent us from realizing an acceptable return on our investment in product development. IF OUR COMPETITORS DEVELOP TREATMENTS FOR INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES THAT ARE APPROVED MORE QUICKLY, MARKETED MORE EFFECTIVELY, OR DEMONSTRATED TO BE MORE EFFECTIVE THAN OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES, OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE PRODUCT REVENUE WILL BE REDUCED OR ELIMINATED. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition, and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition from many different sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies, and private and public research institutions. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing new diabetes treatment programs, including both therapies with traditional as well as novel mechanisms of action. We are aware of competitive products, including approved and marketed products as well as products in development. See "Competition" under Part I, Item 1 above. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, product development, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us. Large pharmaceutical companies have extensive experience in clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approval for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research capabilities than us. In addition many universities and private and public research institutes are active in diabetes research, some in direct competition with us. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies, universities, or research institutes. Our competitors may succeed in developing products for the treatment of insulin-dependent diabetes that are more effective, better tolerated, or less costly than any which we may offer or develop. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT EFFECTIVELY OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, THIRD PARTIES MAY USE OUR TECHNOLOGY, WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN OUR MARKETS. 18 Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and protect patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. The patents we currently license and any future patents we may obtain or license, may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated, or unenforceable. In addition our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Competitors might develop products similar to ours that do not infringe our patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, or patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time, and divert management's attention from other business concerns. The patent position of biotechnology firms generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. In addition there is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. In addition to patent protection we require our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to execute confidentiality agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND PARTLY ON OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE WITHOUT INFRINGING ON OR MISAPPROPRIATING THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. IF WE ARE SUED SUCCESSFULLY FOR INFRINGEMENT OR MISAPPROPRIATION OF ANOTHER'S PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE REVENUE COULD BE SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED OR ELIMINATED. Any of our anticipated products may infringe patent and other proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, and sell products either in the U.S. or international markets. Intellectual property litigation is costly and even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use, or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market some of our anticipated products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate and grow revenues. SOME JURISDICTIONS MAY REQUIRE US TO GRANT LICENSES TO THIRD PARTIES. SUCH COMPULSORY LICENSES COULD BE EXTENDED TO INCLUDE SOME OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR POTENTIAL REVENUE OPPORTUNITIES. 18 Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition most countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving products is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries, either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. WE HAVE NO COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION CAPABILITY AND WE MAY ENCOUNTER PRODUCTION PROBLEMS OR DELAYS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN LOWER REVENUES. To date, we have not produced any commercially available products. To produce product to anticipated customer demand levels we will need to develop our commercial production capability and maintain adequate levels of inventory. We may not be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet market demand. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards if we ramp up production. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties. We may not be able to successfully outsource our production or enter into licensing or other arrangements under acceptable terms with these third parties, which could adversely affect our business. Our inability to identify potential manufacturers, or to enter into or maintain agreements with them on acceptable terms, could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. In addition reliance on third-party manufacturers could reduce our gross margins and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We may also encounter problems with production yields, shortages of qualified personnel, production costs, and the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. WE WILL BE REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REQUIREMENTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO DO SO MAY SUBJECT US TO FINES AND OTHER PENALTIES THAT WILL DELAY OR PREVENT US FROM MARKETING AND SELLING OUR PRODUCTS. We, our collaborators, or other third party manufacturers of our products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements demanded by customers and enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. We, our collaborators, or other third party manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, and foreign regulatory requirements. These requirements may change over time and we, or third party manufacturers, may be unable to comply with the revised requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in criminal and civil penalties, including fines, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied by third-parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, product candidates that we may develop. WE MAY INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITIES FROM ANY PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, INCLUDING CLAIMS MADE AGAINST THIRD PARTIES WE HAVE AGREED TO INDEMNIFY. OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR THOSE CLAIMS MAY BE UNAVAILABLE OR INADEQUATE. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an adverse effect or injury. These risks will exist even for products developed that may be cleared for commercial sale. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against any product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in any one or a combination of the following: 20 o injury to our reputation; o withdrawal of clinical trial participants; o costs of related litigation; o substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; o decreased demand for our product candidates; o loss of revenues; and o the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We intend to secure limited product liability insurance coverage, but we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms with adequate coverage, or at reasonable or affordable costs. The amount of insurance coverage we obtain may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim beyond the limit of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage. WE USE BIOLOGICAL AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN OUR BUSINESS. IF WE ARE SUBJECT TO CLAIMS RELATING TO IMPROPER HANDLING, STORAGE, OR DISPOSAL OF THESE MATERIALS, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION WOULD SUFFER. Our research and development processes involve the storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. We are subject to federal, state, and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of materials and waste products. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our product development efforts. In the event of an accident we could be held liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. We could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF SHARES WE HAVE ISSUED IN EXEMPT TRANSACTIONS ARE, OR WILL BE MADE, AVAILABLE FOR SALE ON THE OPEN MARKET. THE RESALE OF THESE SECURITIES MIGHT ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock issued in exempt transactions, or in anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. Investors that are not affiliates of our company and that purchased shares directly from us or one of our affiliates may, after a six month holding period, resell those shares into the open market without volume limitations under Rule 144, so long as we are providing current public information. Investors that are affiliates of our company may also sell shares into the open market under Rule 144 subject to satisfying current public information, volume, manner of sale and notice requirements. As of February 29, 2008, approximately 33.9 million shares of our common stock were held by non-affiliates and approximately 20.7 million shares were held by affiliates. Sales of shares pursuant to exercisable options and warrants could also lead to subsequent sales of the shares in the public market. These sales, together with sales by other existing stockholders, could depress the market price of our stock by creating an excess in supply of shares for sale. Availability of these shares for sale in the public market could also impair our ability to raise capital by selling equity securities. OUR STOCK IS THINLY TRADED, WHICH CAN LEAD TO PRICE VOLATILITY AND DIFFICULTY IN LIQUIDATING YOUR INVESTMENT. 21 The trading volume of our stock has been low, which can cause the trading price of our stock to change substantially in response to relatively small orders. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume of our stock was approximately 69,800 shares and the shares traded as low as $0.34 and as high as $0.90 per share. On February 29, 2008, the closing price of our common stock reported on the OTC Bulletin Board was $0.35. Both volume and price could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following: o announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; o the introduction of new products by us or by our competitors; o costs and expenses associated with delays or changes in regulatory requirements for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; o the timing and achievement of regulatory approvals or disapprovals; o developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; and o general market perception of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. SHARES ISSUED UPON THE EXERCISE OF OPTIONS AND WARRANTS COULD DILUTE YOUR STOCK HOLDINGS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. We have issued options and warrants to acquire common stock to our employees, directors, consultants, and investors at various prices, some of which are or may in the future be below the market price of our stock. If exercised, these options and warrants will cause immediate and possibly substantial dilution to our stockholders. We currently have options and warrants for approximately 0.8 million shares outstanding that have exercise prices at or below the recent closing price of our stock on February 29, 2008 of $0.35 per share. We have options and warrants for approximately 15.6 million shares outstanding at prices above the recent $0.35 closing price, and if the market price increases, these options and warrants could have a dilutive effect on stockholders if exercised. Future options issued under our stock option plan may have further dilutive effects. IF THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK CONTINUES TO BE HIGHLY CONCENTRATED IT MAY PREVENT YOU AND OTHER STOCKHOLDERS FROM INFLUENCING SIGNIFICANT CORPORATE DECISIONS AND MAY RESULT IN CONFLICTS OF INTEREST THAT COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. As of February 29, 2008, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned or controlled approximately 8.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (after giving effect to the exercise of all options and warrants held by them which are exercisable within sixty days of February 29, 2008). John F. Steel IV, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns 16.4% of the outstanding shares of common stock, John J. Hagenbuch beneficially owns 8.9%, Ronald Katz our Chairman beneficially owns 7.9%, and Richard Schoninger beneficially owns 6.2% of our outstanding common stock (after giving effect to the exercise of all options and warrants held by such person which are exercisable within sixty days of February 29, 2008). Accordingly, a limited number of stockholders will have substantial control over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. WE MAY ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK IN THE FUTURE AND THE TERMS OF THE PREFERRED STOCK MAY REDUCE THE VALUE OF YOUR COMMON STOCK. 22 We are authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors will be able to determine the terms of preferred stock without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock it could affect your rights or reduce the value of your common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. WE MAY ISSUE COMMON STOCK AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES UNDER CERTAIN REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENTS WHICH WILL DILUTE YOUR INVESTMENT IN OUR COMPANY. In connection with private placements of common shares and warrants in December 2005 and August 2006, we are obligated to maintain registration statements available for the resale of the common shares and the shares underlying the warrants sold in these financings. In April 2007, we notified the December 2005 investors that the registration statement which registered their shares for resale was no longer available, and accordingly, we became subject to liquidated damages beginning on May 20, 2007. Upon filing of this annual report, we will notify the August 2006 investors that the registration statement which registered their shares for resale will no longer be available, and accordingly, we expect to become subject to liquidated damages beginning at the end of April 2008. With respect to each financing, the liquidated damages are equal to 0.0003 times the purchase price of the securities the investors continue to own for each day the registration statement is not available, other than securities that may be resold under Rule 144 without restriction. We are permitted to pay any such liquidated damages in cash or in shares of common stock at our election. If we elect to issue shares, such shares are to be valued based on the volume weighted average price of shares of common stock for the five trading days prior to the date of issue. We are required to pay such damages no later than the first trading day of each calendar month immediately following the month in which the damages accrue. Through December 31, 2007, liquidated damages of $143,000 had accrued, and we discharged $132,000 of such obligation through the issuance of 267,684 shares of common stock. Liquidated damages are expected to continue to accrue at approximately $12,000 per month through April 2008, and at approximately $46,000 thereafter until we file and the SEC declares effective post-effective amendments to the registration statements containing updated financial and other information concerning our company. We intend to continue to pay such amounts by issuing shares of our common stock. NEVADA LAW AND PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS MAY DELAY OR PREVENT A POTENTIAL TAKEOVER BID THAT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our ownership or in our management. In addition these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include the following: o our board of directors may increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors; o stockholder proposals and nominations for directors to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures, which require, among other things, that all such proposals and nominations must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; o our bylaws provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our chairman, chief executive officer, or a majority of our board of directors; and o our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws. In addition Chapter 78 of the Nevada Revised Statutes contains provisions that may enable our board of directors to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our ownership or in our management. The combinations with interested stockholders provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, subject to certain exceptions, restrict the ability of our company to engage in any combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the date a stockholder 23 becomes an interested stockholder, unless, prior to the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, our board of directors gave approval for the combination or the acquisition of shares which caused the stockholder to become an interested stockholder. If the combination or acquisition was not so approved prior to the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder may effect a combination after the three-year period only if either the stockholder receives approval from a majority of the outstanding voting shares, excluding shares beneficially owned by the interested stockholder or its affiliates or associates, or the consideration to be paid by the interested stockholder exceeds certain thresholds set forth in the statute. For purposes of the foregoing provisions, "interested stockholder" means either a person, other than our company or our subsidiaries, who directly or indirectly beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting shares, or one of our affiliates or associates which at any time within three years immediately before the date in question directly or indirectly beneficially owned 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares. In addition the acquisition of controlling interest provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes provide that a stockholder acquiring a controlling interest in our company, and those acting in association with that stockholder, obtain no voting rights in the control shares unless voting rights are conferred by stockholders holding a majority of our voting power (exclusive of the control shares). For purposes of these provisions, "controlling interest" means the ownership of outstanding voting shares enabling the acquiring person to exercise (either directly or indirectly or in association with others) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of the voting power in the election of our directors, and "control shares" means those shares the stockholder acquired on the date it obtained a controlling interest or in the 90-day period preceding that date. Accordingly, the provisions could require multiple votes with respect to voting rights in share acquisitions effected in separate stages, and the effect of these provisions may be to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 