Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not achieve consistent profitability in the future. We have incurred substantial losses in prior years. During 2011, we generated a comprehensive loss of approximately $168.3 million and had $40.5 million of cash provided by operating activities. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods in order to become consistently profitable, and even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. We may incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including risks described herein, unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown risks. 15 Table of Contents Our exploration, development and production activities may not be profitable or achieve our expected returns. The future performance of our business will depend upon our ability to identify, acquire and develop additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Success will depend upon the ability to acquire working and revenue interests in properties upon which oil and natural gas reserves are ultimately discovered in commercial quantities, and the ability to develop prospects that contain additional proven oil and natural gas reserves to the point of production. Without successful acquisition and exploration activities, we will not be able to develop additional oil and natural gas reserves or generate additional revenues. There are no assurances that additional oil and natural gas reserves will be identified or acquired on acceptable terms, or that oil and natural gas reserves will be discovered in sufficient quantities to enable us to recover our exploration and development costs or sustain our business. The successful acquisition and development of oil and natural gas properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors. Such assessments are inherently uncertain. In addition, no assurance can be given that our exploration and development activities will result in the discovery of any reserves. Operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of lack of adequate capital and other factors, such as lack of availability of rigs and other equipment, title problems, weather, compliance with governmental regulations or price controls, mechanical difficulties, or unusual or unexpected formations, pressures and/or work interruptions. In addition, the costs of exploration and development may materially exceed our initial estimates. We will require significant capital to continue our exploration and development activities beyond June 30, 2012. We may not have sufficient funds to continue our operations beyond June 30, 2012, the maturity date of our credit agreement with Dalea. If we are unable to finance our operations or successfully consummate the sale of our oilfield services business on acceptable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Future cash flows and the availability of debt or equity financing will be subject to a number of factors, such as: • the success of our prospects in Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania; • success in finding and commercially producing reserves; and • prices for oil and natural gas production. Debt financing could lead to: • a substantial portion of operating cash flow being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest; • us being more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns; and • restrictions on our operations. If sufficient capital resources are not available, we might be forced to cease operations entirely, curtail developmental and exploratory drilling and other activities or be forced to sell some assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sale of our oilfield services business could increase our operating costs and expenses and negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. Historically, we have relied upon our oilfield services business to provide services that are necessary to conduct our business. If the sale of our oilfield services business is successful, we will no longer own drilling rigs and oilfield services equipment, which will increase our operating costs and expenses. In addition, we could be 16 Table of Contents subject to greater risks related to the availability and cost of drilling rigs and third party oilfield services in the future. Our historical reliance upon our oilfield services business in our operations and our limited ability to control certain costs and expenses following the consummation of the sale could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We need significant amounts of cash to repay our debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to repay our debt, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $163.8 million, of which $5.0 million is classified as held for sale. Of this amount, $73.0 million under our credit agreement with Dalea is due upon the earlier of (i) June 30, 2012 or (ii) the later of (x) the closing of the sale of Viking or (y) two business days after demand by Dalea. We must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. Our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Future borrowings may not be available to us under our Amended and Restated Credit Facility or from other lenders in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. In addition, disruptions in the credit and financial markets can constrain our access to capital and increase its cost. The inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit or equity markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest needed capital for our developmental and exploratory drilling and other activities, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses, if not corrected, could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting. This report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management. In addition, the report must contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control over financial reporting. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as disclosed in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Failure to have effective internal controls could lead to a misstatement of our financial statements. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial statements, our business decision processes may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the price of our common shares could decrease and our ability to obtain additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be adversely affected. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities. We intend to take further action to remediate the material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, we can give no assurances that the measures we may take will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. 17 Table of Contents Our Amended and Restated Credit Facility and credit agreement with Dalea, as amended, contain various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business and can lead to an event of default that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our Amended and Restated Credit Facility or our credit agreement with Dalea may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Amended and Restated Credit Facility and credit agreement with Dalea contain various covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • enter into any hedge agreement for speculative purposes; • engage in business other than as an oil and natural gas exploration and production company; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into any merger, consolidation or amalgamation; • dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • use the amounts borrowed for only certain specified purposes; • declare or provide for any dividends or other payments or distributions; • redeem or purchase any shares; or • guarantee or permit the guarantee of the obligations of any other person. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants and financial tests and ratios required by the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and could result in a default under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. An event of default under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility includes, among other events, failure to pay principal or interest when due, breach of certain covenants and obligations, cross default to other indebtedness, bankruptcy or insolvency, failure to meet the required financial covenant ratios and the occurrence of a material adverse effect. In addition, the occurrence of a change of control is an event of default. A change of control is defined as the occurrence of any of the following: (i) our failure to own, of record and beneficially, all of the equity of DMLP, Amity, Petrogas, TEMI, Talon Exploration and TAT (collectively, the “Borrowers”) or any of TransAtlantic Petroleum (USA) Corp. and TransAtlantic Worldwide (collectively, and together with TransAtlantic Petroleum Ltd., the “Guarantors”) or to exercise, directly or indirectly, day-to-day management and operational control of any Borrower or Guarantor; (ii) the failure by the Borrowers to own or hold, directly or indirectly, all of the interests granted to Borrowers pursuant to certain hydrocarbon licenses designated in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility; or (iii) (a) Mr. Mitchell ceases for any reason to be the executive chairman of our board of directors at any time, (b) Mr. Mitchell and certain of his affiliates cease to own of record and beneficially at least 35% of our common shares; or (c) any person or group, excluding Mr. Mitchell and certain of his affiliates, shall become, or obtain rights to become, the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 35% of our outstanding common shares entitled to vote for members of our board of directors on a fully-diluted basis. Provided that, if Mr. Mitchell ceases to be executive chairman of our board of directors by reason of his death or disability, such event shall not constitute an event of default unless we have not appointed a successor reasonably acceptable to the lenders within 60 days of the occurrence of such event. An event of default under the credit agreement with Dalea includes, among other events, failure to make the payment of principal or interest when due, breach of certain covenants or conditions, the occurrence of an adverse material change in our financial condition, bankruptcy or insolvency, or a change of control. In the event 18 Table of Contents of a default under the credit agreement, the lender can demand all amounts payable under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable. In the event of bankruptcy or insolvency, all amounts payable under the credit agreement become immediately due and payable. In the event of a default and acceleration of indebtedness under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility or the credit agreement with Dalea, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of Mr. Mitchell, our chairman and chief executive officer. The loss of Mr. Mitchell could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on Mr. Mitchell. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends on the success of our exploration, development and production activities in each of our prospects. These activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that we will be unable to economically produce our reserves or be able to find commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project unprofitable. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or prevent drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • pipeline and processing interruptions or unavailability; • title problems; • adverse weather conditions; • lack of market demand for oil and natural gas; • delays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with environmental laws and other regulatory requirements; and • declines in oil and natural gas prices. Our future drilling activities might not be successful, and drilling success rates overall or within a particular area could decline. We could incur losses by drilling unproductive wells. Shut-in wells, curtailed production and other production interruptions may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have concentrated current production of crude oil. We derive substantially all of our crude oil production from the Selmo field in southeastern Turkey. TPAO and TUPRAS purchase all of our crude oil production from the Selmo field, which represented 66.4% of our total revenues in 2011. If either of these companies fails to purchase our production, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We could experience labor disputes that could disrupt our business in the future. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 55 of our employees at one of our Turkish subsidiaries were represented by collective bargaining agreements with KIPLAS and PETROL-IS. The collective bargaining agreements expired on January 31, 2012, and we have continued to honor the terms of the expired agreements. As of March 1, 2012, KIPLAS and PETROL-IS no longer represent these employees. However, potential work disruptions from labor disputes with these employees could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are primarily conducted in Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania, and we are subject to political, economic and other risks and uncertainties in these countries. Our international operations are mainly performed in emerging markets such as Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania, which may expose us to greater risks than those associated with more developed markets. In total, these markets accounted for 99.9% and 99.8% of our operating revenue in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Due to our foreign operations, we are subject to the following issues and uncertainties that can adversely affect our operations: • the risk of, and disruptions due to, expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, election outcomes, economic instability, political instability, border disputes; • the uncertainty of local contractual terms, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts and enforcement of contractual terms in disputes before local courts; • the risk of import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs, including boycotts and embargoes; • the risk of not being able to procure residency and work permits for our expatriate personnel; • the requirements or regulations imposed by local governments upon local suppliers or subcontractors, or being imposed in an unexpected and rapid manner; • taxation and revenue policies, including royalty and tax increases, retroactive tax claims and the imposition of unexpected taxes or other payments on revenues; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over foreign operations; • laws and policies of the United States and of the other countries in which we operate affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; • the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and • the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. To manage these risks, we sometimes form joint ventures and/or strategic partnerships with local private and/or governmental entities. Local partners provide us with local market knowledge. However, there can be no assurance that changes in conditions or regulations in the future will not affect our profitability or ability to operate in such markets. Acts of violence, terrorist attacks or civil unrest in southeastern Turkey and nearby countries could adversely affect our business. We currently derive substantially all of our oil revenue from the Selmo oil field in southeastern Turkey. Historically, the southeastern area of Turkey and nearby countries such as Iran, Iraq and Syria have experienced political, social or economic problems, terrorist attacks, insurgencies or civil unrest. If any of these events or conditions occurs, we may be unable to access the locations where we conduct operations. In those locations 20 Table of Contents where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel and our operations. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel and operations in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors or our operations could be disrupted, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are involved in litigation over the ownership of a portion of the surface rights at the Selmo oil field in Turkey. A substantial portion of our revenue for 2011 was generated from the sale of oil produced from the Selmo oil field in Turkey. Our subsidiary, TEMI, has been involved in litigation with persons who claim ownership of a portion of the surface rights of the Selmo field, which encompasses almost all of our producing wells at Selmo. We and the Turkish government are vigorously defending these cases. Although the litigation does not affect our ownership of the Selmo production lease, if this litigation is not resolved in our favor, our operations on the affected portions of the Selmo oil field could be materially disrupted. A material disruption to our operations at Selmo could have a material adverse effect on our business. The occurrence of a financial crisis, such as the financial crisis in recent years, may impact our ability to obtain equity, debt or bank financing in the future and may adversely impact our operations. Events in the financial markets in recent years had an adverse impact on the credit markets and, as a result, the availability of equity, debt or bank financing has become more expensive and difficult to obtain. Banks have been adversely affected by the financial crisis and have severely curtailed existing liquidity lines, increased pricing and introduced new and tighter borrowing restrictions to corporate borrowers, with extremely limited access to new facilities or for new borrowers. These factors could negatively impact our ability to access liquidity needed for our business in the longer term. These factors may impact our ability to obtain equity, debt or bank financing on terms commercially reasonable to us, if at all. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. The negative impact of these events may also include our inability to expand existing credit facilities or finance the acquisition of assets on favorable terms, if at all, or adversely impacting our operations or the trading price of our common shares. We could be assessed for Canadian federal tax as a result of our continuance under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981. For Canadian tax purposes, we were deemed, immediately before the completion of our continuance under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, to have disposed of each property owned by us for proceeds equal to the fair market value of that property, and will be subject to tax on any resulting net income. In addition, we were required to pay a special “branch tax” equal to 25% of any excess of the fair market value of our property over the “paid-up capital” (as defined in the Income Tax Act (Canada)) of our outstanding common shares and our liabilities. However, management, together with its professional advisors, has determined that the paid-up capital of our common shares and our liabilities exceeded the fair market value of our property, resulting in no “branch tax” being payable. The Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) may not accept our determination of the fair market value of our property. In the event that CRA’s determination of fair market value is significantly higher than our valuation and such determination is final, we may be subject to material amounts of tax resulting from the deemed disposition. We could be subject to Bermuda corporate taxes in the future. We are a Bermuda exempted company and under current law, we are not subject to tax on profits, income or dividends, nor is there any capital gains tax applicable to us in Bermuda. Furthermore, we have received assurance from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, that in the event that Bermuda enacts any legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation we and any of our operations or shares, debentures or other obligations shall be 21 Table of Contents exempt from the imposition of such tax until March 28, 2016. If the Ministry of Finance of Bermuda changes the tax treatment afforded to exempted companies, allows the terms of the assurance to expire or does not extend the term of assurance beyond 2016, we could be subject to Bermuda corporate taxes in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves that we may report. In order to prepare these estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves that we may report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our reserves will ultimately be produced or that our proved undeveloped, probable and possible reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated. Any significant variance in the assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our reserves. Investors should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved, probable and possible reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved, probable and possible reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate. We may not correctly evaluate reserve data or the exploitation potential of properties as we engage in our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our future success will depend on the success of our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our decisions to purchase, develop or otherwise exploit properties or prospects will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our estimates regarding reserves and production resulting from the acquisitions of Incremental Petroleum Limited, now called Incremental Petroleum Pty Ltd (“Incremental”), Talon Exploration, Amity, Petrogas, Direct Bulgaria, Anschutz, Direct Morocco and TBNG and our exploration and development activities may prove to be incorrect, which could significantly reduce our income and our ability to generate cash needed to fund our capital program and other working capital requirements in the longer term. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, which would reduce our cash flow and income. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines over time as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we are not successful in our exploration and development activities or in acquiring properties containing reserves, our reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced. Our oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our ability to economically find, develop or acquire reserves in commercial quantities. 22 Table of Contents To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced, either by a decrease in prevailing prices for oil and natural gas or an increase in finding and development costs, and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and natural gas reserves would be impaired. Even with sufficient available capital, our future exploration and development activities may not result in additional reserves, and we might not be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are substantially dependent upon the prevailing prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas. Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. A decrease in oil or natural gas prices will not only reduce revenues and profits, but will also reduce the quantities of reserves that are commercially recoverable and may result in charges to earnings for impairment of the value of these assets. If oil or natural gas prices decline significantly for extended periods of time in the future, we might not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations and make planned capital expenditures. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Among the factors that could cause fluctuations are: • change in local and global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • levels of production and other activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and natural gas producing nations; • market expectations about future prices; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration, production activity and inventories; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting oil and natural gas production activities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If oil and natural gas prices decline, we may be required to write-down the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. There is a risk that we could be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which would reduce our earnings and shareholders’ equity. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, the costs of productive wells, developmental dry holes and productive leases are capitalized. The acquisition costs of unproved acreage are initially capitalized and are carried at cost, net of accumulated impairment provisions, until such leases are transferred to proved properties or charged to exploration expense as impairments of unproved properties. Exploration costs, such as exploratory geological and geophysical costs, delay rentals and exploration overhead, are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs, including the cost of stratigraphic test wells, are initially capitalized but charged to exploration expense if and when the well is determined to be non-productive. The capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties may not exceed their estimated fair market value. When evaluating our proved properties, we are required to test for potential write-downs at the lowest level for 23 Table of Contents which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets, which is typically on a field by field basis. If capitalized costs exceed future cash flows, we write down the costs of proved properties to our estimate of fair market value, which is generally estimated using a discounted cash flow approach. When evaluating our unproved properties, we write down the capitalized costs of the unproved properties if it is determined that the costs are not likely to be recoverable. Any such charge will not affect our cash flow from operating activities, but will reduce our earnings and shareholders’ equity. The development of proved undeveloped reserves is uncertain. In addition, there are no assurances that our probable and possible reserves will be converted to proved reserves. At December 31, 2011, approximately 47% of our total estimated net proved reserves were proved undeveloped reserves. Undeveloped reserves, by their nature, are significantly less certain than developed reserves. We also have a significant amount of unproved reserves at December 31, 2011. There is significant uncertainty attached to unproved reserve estimates, which include probable and possible reserves. The discovery, determination and exploitation of undeveloped or unproved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling and exploration programs. We may not be able to raise the additional capital that we need to develop these reserves. There is no certainty that we will be able to convert undeveloped reserves to developed reserves or unproved reserves into proved reserves or that our undeveloped or unproved reserves will be economically viable or technically feasible to produce. Legislative and regulatory initiatives and increased public scrutiny relating to fracture simulation activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Fracture stimulation is an important and commonly used process for the completion of oil and natural gas wells and involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Recently there has been increased public concern with regards to the potential environmental impact of fracture stimulation activities. Most of these concerns have raised questions regarding the drilling fluids used in the fracturing process, their effect on drinking water supplies, the use of water in connection with completion operations, and the potential for impact to surface water, groundwater and the environment generally. The increased attention regarding fracture stimulation could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using fracture stimulation techniques. Increased public scrutiny may also lead to additional levels of regulation in the countries in which we operate that could cause operational restrictions or delays, make it more difficult to perform fracture stimulation or could increase our costs of compliance and doing business. For example, in January 2012, the government of Bulgaria enacted legislation that bans the fracture stimulation of oil and natural gas wells in Bulgaria and imposes large monetary penalties on companies that violate that ban. Additional legislation or regulation, such as a requirement to disclose the chemicals used in fracture stimulation, could make it easier for third parties opposing fracture stimulation to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. A substantial portion of our operations rely on fracture stimulation and the adoption of legislative or regulatory initiatives placing restrictions on fracture stimulation activities, especially in Turkey, could impose operational delays, increased operations costs and additional related burdens on our exploration and production activities which could make it more difficult to perform fracture stimulation, cause a material decrease in the drilling of new wells and related servicing activities and increase our costs of compliance and doing business, which could materially impact our business and profitability. We are subject to operating hazards. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosion, blowout, pipe failure, casing collapse, stuck tools, uncontrollable flows of oil or natural gas, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, surface cratering, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures, discharges of toxic gases, underground migration, surface spills, mishandling of fracture stimulation fluids, including chemical additives, and natural disasters, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, loss of or damage to well bores and/or drilling or production 24 Table of Contents equipment, costs of overcoming downhole problems, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Gathering systems and processing facilities are subject to many of the same hazards and any significant problems related to those facilities could adversely affect our ability to market our production. Drilling for oil and natural gas is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • unexpected operational events; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • adverse weather conditions, such as flooding; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate and compliance with existing and future laws may increase our costs or impair our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local, foreign and provincial laws and regulations, including those related to the environment, employment, immigration, labor, oil and natural gas exploration and development, payments to local, foreign and provincial officials, taxes and the repatriation of foreign earnings. If we fail to adhere to any applicable federal, state, local, foreign and provincial laws or regulations, or if such laws or regulations negatively affect the sale of oil and natural gas, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be impaired. We may be subject to governmental sanctions, such as fines or penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injury, property or natural resource damage and might be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with federal, state or international laws or regulations. In addition, existing laws or regulation, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations could adversely affect our business or operations, or substantially increase our costs and associated liabilities. In addition, exploration for, and exploitation, production and sale of, oil and natural gas in each country in which we operate is subject to extensive national and local laws and regulations requiring various licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies. If these licenses or permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our exploration or drilling activities, we might not be able to conduct our operations as planned. Alternatively, failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including 25 Table of Contents the requirements of any licenses or permits, might result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to penalties. Our costs to comply with these numerous laws, regulations, licenses and permits are significant. Specifically, our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate our contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many countries have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning of oil and natural gas, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for some of our services or products in the future. We do not plan to insure against all potential operating risks. We might incur substantial losses from, and be subject to substantial liability claims for, uninsured or underinsured risks related to our oil and natural gas operations and oilfield services business. We do not intend to insure against all risks. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and oilfield services business are subject to numerous hazards and risks associated with drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, and storing, transporting and using explosive materials, and any of the following risks can cause substantial losses: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination, underground migration and surface spills or mishandling of fracture stimulation fluids, including chemical additives; • abnormally pressured formations; • leaks of oil, natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of these hydrocarbons as a result of accidents during drilling and completion operations, including fracture stimulation activities, or from the gathering and transportation of oil, natural gas and other hydrocarbons, malfunctions of pipelines, processing or other facilities in our operations or at delivery points to third parties; 26 Table of Contents • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; • regulatory investigations and penalties; and • natural disasters. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of our operating risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover potential losses or liabilities and insurance coverage may not continue to be available at commercially acceptable premium levels or at all. We might not elect to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could require us to make large unbudgeted cash expenditures that could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently carry general liability insurance and excess liability insurance with a combined annual limit of $31.0 million per occurrence and $45.0 million in the aggregate. These insurance policies contain maximum policy limits and are subject to customary exclusions and limitations. Our general liability insurance covers us and our subsidiaries for third-party claims and liabilities arising out of lease operations and related activities. The excess liability insurance is in addition to, and is triggered if, the general liability insurance per occurrence limit is reached. We also maintain control of well insurance and pollution insurance. Our control of well insurance has a per occurrence and combined single limit of $15.0 million and is subject to deductibles ranging from $150,000 to $1.0 million per occurrence. Our pollution insurance has a per occurrence and aggregate annual limit of $2.0 million and is subject to a $25,000 deductible per occurrence. We will require our thirdparty service providers, including Viking International and Viking Geophysical, to sign master service agreements with us pursuant to which they will generally agree to indemnify us for the personal injury and death of the service provider’s employees as well as subcontractors that are hired by the service provider. Similarly, we will agree to indemnify our third-party service providers against claims made by us, our employees and our other contractors. We will require our third-party service providers that perform fracture stimulation operations for us to sign master service agreements containing the indemnification provisions noted above. We do not currently have any insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to fracture stimulation operations. We believe that our general liability, excess liability and pollution insurance policies would cover third-party claims related to fracture stimulation operations and associated legal expenses, in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. However, these policies may not cover fines, penalties or costs and expenses related to government-mandated environmental clean-up responsibilities. We might not be able to identify liabilities associated with properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. Our review and evaluation of prospects and future acquisitions might not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems. For example, inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, may not be readily identified even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, a seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. 27 Table of Contents Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development, production and acquisition with a substantial number of other companies, including U.S.-based and foreign companies doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking oil and natural gas exploration licenses and production licenses; • acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing oil and natural gas production; • integrating new technologies; and • acquiring the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, managerial, technological and other resources than we do. These companies are able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties than we can. To the extent competitors are able to pay more for properties than we are paying, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, many of our competitors enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to explore for and produce oil and natural gas prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. We might not be able to obtain necessary permits, approvals or agreements from one or more government agencies, surface owners, or other third parties, which could hamper our exploration, development or production activities. There are numerous permits, approvals, and agreements with third parties, which will be necessary in order to enable us to proceed with our exploration, development or production activities and otherwise accomplish our objectives. The government agencies in each country in which we operate have discretion in interpreting various laws, regulations, and policies governing operations under the licenses. Further, we may be required to enter into agreements with private surface owners to obtain access to, and agreements for, the location of surface facilities. In addition, because many of the laws governing oil and natural gas operations in the international countries in which we operate have been enacted relatively recently, there is only a relatively short history of the government agencies handling and interpreting those laws, including the various regulations and policies relating to those laws. This short history does not provide extensive precedents or the level of certainty that allows us to predict whether such agencies will act favorably toward us. The governments have broad discretion to interpret requirements for the issuance of drilling permits. Our inability to meet any such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our exploration, development or production activities. We may not be able to complete the exploration, development or production of any, or a significant portion of, the oil and natural gas interests covered by our leases or licenses before they expire. Each license or lease under which we operate has a fixed term. We may be unable to complete our exploration, development or production efforts prior to the expiration of licenses or leases. Failure to obtain government approval for a license or lease, an extension of the license or lease, be granted a new exploration license or lease or the failure to obtain a license or lease covering a sufficiently large area would prevent or limit us from continuing to explore, develop or produce a significant portion of the oil and natural gas interests covered by the license or lease. The determination of the amount of acreage to be covered by the production license or lease is in the discretion of the respective governments. 28 Table of Contents Political and economic instability or fundamental changes in the leadership or in the structure of the governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our company. Our foreign property interests and foreign operations may be affected by political and economic risks. These risks include war and civil disturbances, political instability, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations, labor problems and high rates of inflation. In addition, local, regional and world events could cause the jurisdictions in which we operate to change the petroleum laws, tax laws, foreign investment laws, or to revise their policies in a manner that renders our current and future projects unprofitable. Further, we are subject to risks in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate of the nationalization of the oil and natural gas industry, expropriation of property or other restrictions and penalties on foreign-owned entities, which could render our projects unprofitable or could prevent us from selling our assets or operating our business. The occurrence of any such fundamental change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The interests of our controlling shareholder may not coincide with yours and such controlling shareholder may make decisions with which you may disagree. As of March 1, 2012, Mr. Mitchell beneficially owned approximately 40% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Mr. Mitchell could control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some future transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Mitchell. The interests of Mr. Mitchell may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. The value of our common shares might be affected by matters not related to our own operating performance. The value of our common shares may be affected by matters that are not related to our operating performance and which are outside of our control. These matters include the following: • general economic conditions in the United States, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania and globally; • industry conditions, including fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas; • governmental regulation of the oil and natural gas industry, including environmental regulation and regulation of fracture stimulation activities; • fluctuation in foreign exchange or interest rates; • liabilities inherent in oil and natural gas operations; • geological, technical, drilling and processing problems; • unanticipated operating events which can reduce production or cause production to be shut in or delayed; • failure to obtain industry partner and other third party consents and approvals, when required; • stock market volatility and market valuations; • competition for, among other things, capital, acquisition of reserves, undeveloped land and skilled personnel; • the need to obtain required approvals from regulatory authorities; • worldwide supplies and prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas; • political conditions and developments in each of the countries in which we operate; • political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions; 29 Table of Contents • revenue and operating results failing to meet expectations in any particular period; • investor perception of the oil and natural gas industry; • limited trading volume of our common shares; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • the sale of assets; • our liquidity; and • our ability to raise additional funds. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their common shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We might become involved in securities class action litigation in the future. Such litigation often results in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. U.S. shareholders who hold common shares during a period when we are classified as a passive foreign investment company may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Management believes that we are not currently a passive foreign investment company. However, we may have been a passive foreign investment company during one or more of our prior taxable years and could become a passive foreign investment company in the future. In general, classification of our company as a passive foreign investment company during a period when a U.S. shareholder holds common shares could result in certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to such shareholder. Certain U.S. shareholders who hold common shares during a period when we are classified as a controlled foreign corporation may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. Management believes that we currently are a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and that we will continue to be so treated. Consequently, a U.S. shareholder that owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our shares entitled to vote on the last day of our taxable year may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules with respect to the shareholders investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 