ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. Our results may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in the telecommunications industry and the economy in general. We expect industry and economic conditions to affect our business in many ways, including the following: • our current and prospective customers may make limited capital expenditures; • consolidation of our customers may cause delays, disruptions or reductions in their capital spending plans as well as increase their relative purchasing power in any negotiation; • we will continue to have limited ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales; • we will experience a continuing high level of competition as a result of limited demand and we may experience downward pressure on the pricing of our products which reduces gross margins and constrains revenue growth; • many of our competitors have more diverse product lines which allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively; • new competitive entrants may be located in geographies with lower cost infrastructures than ours allowing them a greater degree of price flexibility; • we will need to continue to balance our initiatives to manage our operating costs against the need to keep pace with technological advances; • intense competition may enable customers to demand more favorable terms and conditions of sales including extended payment terms; and • any bankruptcies or weakening financial condition of any of our customers may require us to write off amounts due from prior sales. These factors could have an adverse impact on our revenue, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We currently depend entirely on our optical switching and multiservice access products and our revenue depends upon their commercial success. Our revenue depends on the commercial success of our line of optical switching and multiservice access products. Our research and development efforts focus exclusively on these products. In order to remain competitive, we believe that continued investment in research and development is necessary in order to provide innovative solutions to our current and prospective customers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in: • anticipating and successfully meeting evolving customer requirements; • completing the development, introduction or production of new products; or • enhancing our existing products. If our current and prospective customers do not adopt our optical switching and multiservice access products and do not purchase and successfully deploy our current and future products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our business. The communications industry has experienced consolidation and we expect this trend to continue. Several larger communications service providers have announced merger transactions which will have a significant impact on the telecommunications industry. Such consolidation among our customers may cause delays or reductions in their capital expenditure plans and may cause increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Consolidation may also result in a combined entity choosing to standardize on a certain vendors’ optical networking platform. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Matters related to the investigations into our historical stock option granting practices and the resulting restatements of our previously issued financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. Our historical stock option granting practices and the initial restatement and further restatement of our previously issued financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see Part I, Item 3- “Legal Proceedings” as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this Item 1A. We have provided the results of our independent investigations to the SEC and in that regard we have responded to formal and informal requests for documents and additional information. We have also provided documents and other information to the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts (the “DOJ”). We intend to continue to cooperate with these governmental agencies. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or not reported, the corresponding financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents As a result of our independent investigations and related restatements, we are subject to investigations by the SEC, DOJ, IRS and the DOL, which may not be resolved favorably and have required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of management time and attention and accounting and legal resources, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The SEC, DOJ, IRS and the DOL are currently conducting investigations of the Company. The period of time necessary to resolve such investigations is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. If we are subject to an adverse finding resulting from any or all such investigations, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. The recent restatements of our financial statements, the ongoing investigations and the resulting shareholder derivative lawsuits could have an adverse affect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, considerable legal and accounting expenses related to these matters have been incurred to date and significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future. If we do not maintain our compliance with the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau, or “Pink Sheets”, which may, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, it would subsequently trade on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of the Company’s common stock and the levels of liquidity available to its stockholders. In addition, the trading of the Company’s common stock on the Pink Sheets will materially adversely affect its access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. Stocks that trade on the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading on the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or “blue sky” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee stock option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. If our common stock is delisted in the future from NASDAQ and transferred to the Pink Sheets, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our Company. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of acquisitions, we may not realize the potential benefits of the acquisition and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. In fiscal 2007, we acquired Eastern Research, Inc. and decided to discontinue the development of Eastern Research’s OX8000 and BSG products. As a result of the Company’s decision to discontinue the OX8000 and BSG products, we recorded asset impairment charges of $6.6 million and $10.7 million, respectively. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we have acquired or might acquire, including Eastern Research. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. It is also possible that the businesses we have acquired, such as Eastern Research, Inc., or any other businesses we may acquire in the future, may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. In that event, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the goodwill 14 Table of Contents and intangible assets associated with acquisitions are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis, such charges would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our earnings could be materially adversely affected in such period. We must continue to make investments in product development in order to keep pace with technological advances and succeed in existing and new markets for our products. In order to be successful, we must balance our initiatives to reduce operating costs against the need to keep pace with technological advances. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent introductions of new products and evolving customer requirements. To succeed, we must continue to develop new products and new features for existing products that meet customer requirements and market demand. We may fail to develop products that incorporate new technologies highly sought after by customers. We may also allocate development resources toward products or technologies for which market demand is ultimately lower than anticipated. Managing our efforts to keep pace with new technologies and reduce operating expense is difficult and there is no assurance that we will be successful. We expect that our decision to make substantial investments in product development will require us to generate revenue above current levels in order to achieve and maintain operating profitability and as a result we may incur net losses. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or that we will generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain such operating profitability. We face intense competition that could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Competition for limited optical switching opportunities is intense and continues to be dominated by large, incumbent equipment suppliers. Competition is based upon a combination of price, established customer relationships, broad product portfolios, large service and support teams, functionality and scalability. Large companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena, Ericsson, Nortel and Tellabs have historically dominated this market. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do and are able to devote greater resources to the research and development of new products. These competitors also have long standing existing relationships with our current and prospective customers. New competitors, such as Huawei, have entered the optical networking market using the latest available technology and aggressive pricing tactics in order to compete with our products. Our competitors may forecast market developments more accurately and could develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products less desirable or even obsolete. Moreover, these competitors have more diverse product lines which allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively. The multiservice access market is equally competitive, with a highly fragmented group of suppliers. As a result of the intensified competition, we expect to encounter aggressive tactics such as the following: • price discounting; • early announcements of competing products and other marketing efforts; • customer financing assistance; • complete solution sales from one single source; • bundling multi-vendor solution integration services with turnkey network operating service offerings; • marketing and advertising assistance; and • intellectual property disputes. These tactics may be effective in a highly concentrated customer base like ours. Our customers are under increasing pressure to deliver their services at the lowest possible cost. As a result, the price of an optical networking system may become an important factor in customer decisions. In certain cases, our larger 15 Table of Contents competitors have more diverse product lines that allow them the flexibility to price their products more aggressively and absorb the significant cost structure associated with optical switching research and development across their entire business. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the average selling price of our products by a reduction in the cost of our products, our gross margins will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience revenue reductions, order cancellations and reduced gross margins, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers, and our success depends on increasing both direct sales and indirect sales through distribution channels to a limited number of service providers. Our revenue is concentrated among a limited number of customers. None of our customers are contractually committed to purchase any minimum quantities of products from us and orders are generally cancelable prior to shipment. We expect that our revenue will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers. While expanding our customer base is a key objective, at the present time, the number of prospective customer opportunities for our products is limited. In addition, we believe that the telecommunications industry will continue in a consolidation phase which may further reduce the number of prospective customers, slow purchases and delay optical switching deployment decisions. Our direct sales efforts primarily target service providers, many of which have already made significant investments in traditional optical networking infrastructures. In addition, we are utilizing established channel relationships with distribution partners including resellers, distributors and systems integrators for the sale of our products to service providers including the federal government. We have entered into agreements with several distribution partners, some of whom also sell products that compete with our products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain or attract distribution partners on a timely basis or at all, or that the distribution partners will devote adequate resources to selling our products. Since we have only limited experience in developing and managing such channels, the extent to which we will be successful is uncertain. If we are unable to develop and manage new channels of distribution to sell our products to service providers, or if our distribution partners are unable to convince service providers to deploy our optical networking solutions, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss of one or more of these customers could materially harm our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers and that trend is likely to continue. The loss of any one of these customers or any substantial reduction in orders by any one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, we have depended on a government agency, through our reseller, for a significant amount of our revenue and the loss or decline of existing or future government agency funding could adversely affect our revenue and cash flows. This government agency, the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), may be subject to budget cuts, budgetary constraints, a reduction or discontinuation of funding or changes in the political or regulatory environment that may cause the agency to terminate the projects, divert funds or delay implementation or expansion. A significant reduction in funds available for the agency to purchase equipment could significantly reduce our revenue and cash flows. The significant reduction or delay in orders by the agency could also significantly reduce our revenue and cash flows. As with most government contracts, the agency may terminate the contract at any time without cause. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government agencies. If the results of these audits or investigations are negative, our reputation 16 Table of Contents could be damaged, contracts could be terminated or significant penalties could be assessed. If a contract is terminated for any reason, our ability to fully recover certain amounts may be impaired resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain larger customers may have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business. Large communications providers, key resellers and the federal government, who make up a large part of our target market, have substantial purchasing power and potential leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers and prospects may require us to develop additional features and require penalties for failure to deliver such features. As we seek to increase sales into our target markets, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may affect the timing of revenue recognition and amount of deferred revenues and may have other unfavorable effects on our business and financial condition. Our strategy to pursue acquisitions or strategic investments may not be successful. Our business strategy includes the ongoing consideration of acquiring or making strategic investments in companies with either complementary technologies or in adjacent markets to add complementary products and services, expand the markets we serve and diversify our customer base. To do so, we may issue additional shares that could dilute the holdings of existing common stockholders, or we may utilize cash. Any decision regarding an acquisition or strategic investment would be subject to inherent risk, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify appropriate opportunities, successfully negotiate economically beneficial terms, successfully integrate any acquired business, retain key employees, successfully market and sell products of the acquired business or achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of any acquisition or strategic investment which may be selected. In implementing a strategy, we may enter markets in which we have little or no prior experience and there can be no assurance that we will be successful. Further, there can be no assurances concerning the success, type, form, structure, nature, results, timing or terms and conditions of any such potential action. Whether or not we pursue any acquisition or strategic investment, the value of your shares may decrease. Our business strategy includes the ongoing consideration of acquiring or making strategic investments in companies with either complementary technologies or in adjacent markets to add complementary products and services, expand the markets we serve and diversify our customer base. We cannot predict whether, or when, we may be able to consummate such acquisition or strategic investment or that such acquisition or strategic investment would provide you with a positive return on your investment. Accordingly, whether or not we pursue any such acquisition or strategic investment, the value of your shares may decrease. Any acquisitions or strategic investments we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we consider acquisitions and strategic investments including those in complementary companies, products or technologies, or in adjacent market segments and otherwise. We may consider such acquisitions or strategic investments to add complementary products and services, expand the markets we serve and diversify our customer base. In the event of an acquisition or strategic investment, we may: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ holdings; • consume cash, which would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes and the interest income we generate from our cash; • incur debt or assume liabilities; • increase our ongoing operating expenses and level of capital expenditures; 17 Table of Contents • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs; or • become subject to litigation. Our ability to achieve the benefits of any acquisition or strategic investment, will also involve numerous risks, including: • problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products; • difficulty in marketing and selling products of an acquired business; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities; • disruption to in-process product development initiatives; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • problems entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • problems with integrating employees and potential loss of key employees; and • additional regulatory compliance issues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. Current economic and market conditions make forecasting difficult. Current economic and market conditions together with the inherent inconsistent and unpredictable ordering patterns of our customers have limited our ability to forecast the volume and product mix of our sales, making it difficult to provide estimates of revenue and operating results. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in our operating results. Our planned expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Our planned expenses include significant investments, particularly within the research and development organization, which we believe are necessary to continue to provide innovative optical networking solutions to meet our current and prospective customers’ needs. As a result, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results. If our revenue and operating results are below the expectations of our investors and market analysts, it could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect our common stock price. In general, our revenue and operating results in any reporting period may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • fluctuation in demand for our products; • the timing, volume and product mix of sales of our products; • changes in customer requirements, including delays or order cancellations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • changes in the price or availability of components for our products; 18 Table of Contents • the timing of revenue recognition and deferred revenue; • readiness of customer sites for installation; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria and related revenue recognition issues; • manufacturing and shipment delays; • changes in accounting rules, such as the requirement to record share-based compensation expense for employee stock option grants made at fair market value; and • general economic conditions as well as those specific to the telecommunications and related industries. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. You should not rely on our results for one quarter as any indication of our future performance. The factors discussed above are extremely difficult to predict and impact our revenue and operating results. In addition, our ability to forecast our future business has been significantly impaired by economic and market conditions. As a result, we believe that our revenue and operating results are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Customer purchase decisions have historically taken a long period of time. We believe that most customers who make a decision to deploy our products will expand their networks slowly and deliberately. In addition, we could receive purchase orders on an irregular and unpredictable basis. Because of the nature of our business, we cannot predict these sales and deployment cycles. The long sales cycles, as well as our expectation that customers may tend to issue large purchase orders sporadically with short lead times, may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our future operating results may be below our expectations or those of public market analysts and investors, and our revenue may decline or recover at a slower rate than anticipated by us or analysts and investors. In either event, the price of our common stock could decrease. We utilize contract manufacturers and any disruption in these relationships may cause us to fail to meet our customers’ demands and may damage our customer relationships. We have limited internal manufacturing capabilities. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to contract manufacturers who manufacture our products in accordance with our specifications and fill orders on a timely basis. We may not be able to manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers effectively, and our contract manufacturers may not meet our future requirements for timely delivery. Our contract manufacturers also build products for other companies, and we cannot be assured that they will have sufficient quantities of inventory available to fill our customer orders or that they will allocate their internal resources or capacity to fill our orders on a timely basis. Unforecasted customer demand may increase the cost to build our products due to fees charged to expedite production and other related charges. The contract manufacturing industry is a highly competitive, capital-intensive business with relatively low profit margins, and in which acquisition or merger activity is relatively common. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming, and could result in a significant interruption in the supply and/or quality of our products. If we are required or choose to change contract manufacturers for any reason, our revenue, gross margins and customer relationships could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We and our contract manufacturers rely on single or limited sources for supply of certain components and our business may be seriously harmed if our supply of any of these components is disrupted. We and our contract manufacturers purchase several key components from single or limited sources. These key components include commercial digital signal processors, central processing units, field programmable gate arrays, switch fabric, and optical transceivers. We generally purchase our key components on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts for these components. In the event of a disruption in supply of key components including, but not limited to, production disruptions, low yield or discontinuance of manufacture, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. Any such failure could impair our ability to deliver products to customers, which would adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In addition, our reliance on key component suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties or quality variations. The loss of a source of supply for key components or a disruption in the supply chain could require us to incur additional costs to redesign our products that use those components. Conversely, electronic products are experiencing shorter product life cycles which may require us to build inventories in excess of demand. During the past year, component suppliers have planned their production capacity to better match demand. If the demand for certain components increases beyond the component suppliers planned production capacity, there may be component shortages which may increase procurement costs. In addition, consolidation in the optical component industry could result in reduced competition for supply of key components and higher component prices. If any of these events occurred, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to anticipate inventory requirements may result in inventory charges or delays in product shipments. During the normal course of business, we may provide purchase orders to our contract manufacturers for up to six months prior to scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our product requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess cancellation penalties or we may have excess inventory which could negatively impact our gross margins. If we underestimate our product requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory that could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipment to our customers. We also could incur additional charges to expedite the manufacture of our products to meet our customer deployment schedules. If we over or underestimate our product requirements, our revenue and gross profit may be impacted. Product performance problems could adversely effect our revenue, operating results and financial condition. If our products do not meet our customers’ performance or reliability requirements, our relationships with current and prospective customers may be adversely affected. The design, development and deployment of our products often involve problems with software, components, manufacturing processes and interoperability with other network elements. If we are unable to identify and fix errors or other problems, or if our customers experience interruptions or delays that cannot be promptly resolved, we could experience: • loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition or accounts receivable collection; • loss of customers and market share; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development and other resources; • increased service, warranty and insurance costs; and • legal actions by our customers. 20 Table of Contents These factors may adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our products are often critical to the performance of our customers’ network. Generally, we seek to limit liability in our customer agreements. If we are not successful in limiting our liability, or these contractual limitations are not enforceable or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a successful claim could harm our business. The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. International sales have historically represented a significant amount of our total sales including 27% of total revenue for fiscal 2007 and we have a substantial international customer base. We are subject to foreign exchange translation risk to the extent that our revenue is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Doing business internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect sales channels and to support customers in international markets. We may not be able to maintain or expand international market demand for our products. In addition, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and conducting foreign operations in compliance with local laws and customs; • reliance on distribution partners for the resale of our products in certain markets and for certain types of product offerings, such as the integration of our products into third-party product offerings; • necessity to work with third parties in certain countries to perform installation and obtain customer acceptance may impact the timing of revenue recognition; • necessity to maintain staffing, or to work with third parties, to provide service and support in international locations; • the impact of slowdowns or recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including trade and environmental protection measures and import and licensing requirements; • obtaining export licensing authority on a timely basis and maintaining ongoing compliance with import, export and reexport regulations; • certification requirements; • currency fluctuations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability, particularly in emerging markets. These factors may adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to retain and recruit key personnel, our business may be harmed. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel, who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business strategy, many of whom would be difficult to replace. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies or similar perquisites covering any of our employees. 21 Table of Contents Virtually all of our key employees have been granted share-based awards that are intended to represent an integral component of their compensation package. These share-based awards may not provide the intended incentive to our employees if our stock price declines, experiences significant volatility or if our failure to make our timely SEC filings prevents our employees from receiving or exercising stock options. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of our products, and negatively impact our ability to sell and support our products. Adverse resolution of litigation and claims may harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We are a defendant in an Initial Public Offering securities lawsuit and a party to other litigation and claims in the normal course of our business. We are also subject to two derivative action lawsuits arising from our recent stock option investigation and related restatements of our financial statements, and we may be named in additional litigation. The highly technical nature of our products makes them susceptible to allegations of patent infringement. Litigation is by its nature uncertain and unpredictable and there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of such claims will not exceed the amounts accrued for such claims, if any. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of a legal matter could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits and other disputes in which we are involved, see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. Our ability to compete and pursue strategic alternatives could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or infringe on intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners and control access to and distribution of our products, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete and pursue strategic alternatives effectively could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. In the course of our business, we may receive claims of infringement or otherwise become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights, and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses or cross-licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies in our products. Any parties asserting that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights would require us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, manufacturers or suppliers against the alleged infringement. Regardless of their merit, these claims could result in costly litigation and subject us to the risk of significant liability for damages. Such claims would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve, would divert management time and attention and would put us at risk to: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; 22 Table of Contents • redesign those products that use such technology; or • accept a return of products that use such technologies. If we are forced to take one or more of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. In addition, we license public domain software and proprietary technology from third parties for use in our existing products, as well as new product development and enhancements. We cannot be assured that such licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if at all. The inability to maintain or obtain any such license required for our current or future products and enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products. Prior to July 19, 2007, we were not current in our SEC filings. If we do not remain current in our SEC filings, we will face several adverse consequences. In addition to possible delisting, if we are unable to remain current in our SEC filings, investors in our common stock will not have information regarding our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. In addition, we will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, and will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements or pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors.” We also would not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after the time we become current in our filings. As previously reported, we were not timely in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2006 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended October 28, 2006, January 27, 2007 and April 28, 2007. As a result, we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 until July 20, 2008, which is 12 months from when we became current in our filings. These restrictions could adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to pursue specific strategic alternatives. Adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our results. We are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provisions. Our federal income tax returns for the tax years ended July 31, 2004 and 2005 are currently under examination by the IRS and our Massachusetts state income tax returns for the tax years ended July 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 are currently under examination by the Massachusetts Department of Revenue. While we believe that we have adequately provided for our tax liabilities, including the outcome of these examinations, it is possible that the amount paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amount provided. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts owed by us are recorded in the period they become known. The ultimate outcome of these tax contingencies could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The occurrence of any one or more of the factors noted above could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. In addition, the following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate: • loss of a major customer; • significant changes or slowdowns in the funding and spending patterns of our current and prospective customers; 23 Table of Contents • the addition or departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements; • failure by us to meet product milestones; • acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • regulatory changes in telecommunications; • variations between our actual results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the future; • changes in market valuations of networking and telecommunications companies; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes and; • announcements or implementation of a stock buyback or cash distribution. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Significant insider ownership, provisions of our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law may limit shareholders’ ability to influence key transactions, including changes of control. As of July 31, 2007, our officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to certain stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 