ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are potential risks that management considers material and that could affect the future operating results and financial condition of the Bank and the Company. The risks are not listed in any particular order of importance, and there is the potential that there are other risks that have either not been identified or that management believed to be immaterial but which could in fact adversely affect the Bank’s operating results and financial condition. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results The success of the Bank has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by the ability to retain the services of existing senior management. The Bank has benefited from consistency within its senior management team, with its top five executives averaging over 14 years of service with the Bank. The Company has entered into employment contracts with each of these top management officials. Nevertheless, the unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on the business and financial results of the Bank. A significant amount of the Bank’s business is concentrated in lending which is secured by property located in the Catawba Valley and surrounding areas In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If the Bank is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Additionally, with most of the Bank’s loans concentrated in the Catawba Valley and surrounding areas, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of the Bank’s real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on the Bank’s earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Considering such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances within assigned risk grades and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. For further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, see “Allowance for Loan Losses” within “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results and Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in interest rates affect profitability and assets Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt the Bank’s business. The Bank derives its income primarily from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more the Bank earns. When market rates of interest change, the interest the Bank receives on its assets and the interest the Bank pays on its liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in the “spread” and can adversely affect the Bank’s income. Changes in market interest rates could reduce the value of the Bank’s financial assets. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed and related securities and mortgage loans generally decrease in value as interest rates rise. In addition, interest rates affect how much money the Bank lends. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and the loan originations tend to decrease. If the Bank is unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, the financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations is presented within “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Annual Report which is included in this Form 10-K as Exhibit 13. 10 Regional economic factors may have an adverse impact on our business Substantially all of the Bank’s business is with customers in its local market areas. Most of the Bank’s customers are individuals and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the Bank’s markets could adversely affect its borrowers, their ability to repay their loans and to borrow additional funds or buy financial services and products from the Bank. The Bank faces strong competition from other banks and financial institutions which can hurt its business The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Bank competes against commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, brokerage firms, investment advisory firms, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Many of these entities are larger organizations with significantly greater financial, management and other resources than the Bank has. Moreover, two national money center commercial banks are headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, only 40 miles from the Bank's primary market area. While management believes it can and does successfully compete with other financial institutions in our market, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Government regulations and policies impose limitations and may result in higher operating costs and competitive disadvantages The Bank is subject to extensive federal government supervision and regulation that is intended primarily to protect depositors and the FDIC’s Bank Insurance Fund, rather than the Company’s shareholders. Existing banking laws subject the Bank to substantial limitations with respect to loans, the purchase of securities, the payment of dividends and many other aspects of banking business. Some of the banking laws may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect the Bank and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. There can be no assurance that future legislation or government policy will not adversely affect the banking industry or the Bank’s operations. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect the Bank’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Changes in technology may impact the Bank’s business The Bank uses various technologies in its business and the banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Bank’s future success will depend in part on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in the Bank’s operations. The Bank’s competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger public companies which can cause price volatility The trading history of our common stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock, which trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: ● actual or acticipated fluctuation in our operating results; ● changes in interest rates; ● changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; ● press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; ● changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; ● future sales of our common stock; ● changes in economic conditions in our market, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and ● other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling common stock at or above the current market price. 11 We may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect our results of operations In the normal course of business, we may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we are engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice We have in the past paid a quarterly dividend to shareholders. However, we are dependent primarily upon the Bank for our earnings and funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 