Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K. Except as mentioned under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion contained in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. 10 Table of Contents We have incurred losses, anticipate continuing to incur losses and might never achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2009 we had an accumulated deficit of $680.4 million. We have not achieved profitability in any quarter since our formation and may continue to incur net losses until we can produce sufficient revenue to cover our costs. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until we can produce and sell our products on a large-scale and cost-effective basis. On October 8, 2009, we announced our path to profitability; however, we cannot guarantee when we will operate profitably, if ever. In order to achieve profitability, among other factors, management must successfully execute our planned path to profitability in the early adoption markets on which we are focused, the hydrogen infrastructure that is needed to support our growth readiness and cost efficiency must be available and cost efficient, we must increasingly shorten cycles in our product roadmap with the product reliability and performance our customers expect and successfully introduce our products into the market, we must accurately evaluate our markets for, and react to, competitive threats in both other technologies (such as advanced batteries) and our technology field, and we must continue to lower our products’ build costs and lifetime service costs. If we are unable to successfully take these steps, we may never operate profitably, even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. We are still a development stage company and therefore have limited experience in manufacturing and marketing our products and, as a result, may be unable to successfully commercialize our products. We were formed in June 1997 to further the research and development of stationary fuel cell systems. While we delivered our initial GenSys product in the third quarter of 2001, our initial GenCore product in the fourth quarter of 2003 and our GenDrive product in the third quarter of 2007, we do not have extensive experience in manufacturing and marketing our products. Before investing in our common stock, you should consider the challenges, expenses and difficulties that we will face as a development stage company seeking to commercialize our new and existing products. In conjunction with our announced path to profitability, we intend to end development stage accounting as we commercialize our products; however, if we are unable to successfully commercialize our products, we may never be able to change our financial accounting practices, and that failure to successfully commercialize would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our purchase orders may not ship, be commissioned or installed, or convert to revenue, in whole or in part; and our pending orders may not convert to purchase orders, in whole or in part. We have accepted orders from certain customers, which may include firm orders, stocking orders and orders that require certain conditions or contingencies to be satisfied prior to shipment or prior to commissioning or installation, some of which are outside of our control. Historically, shipments made against these orders have occurred between thirty (30) days and twenty- four (24) months from the date of acceptance of the order. Orders received during the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled 786 units. Backlog on December 31, 2009 was 863 units. Of the unit orders in backlog on December 31, 2009, orders for 166 units were older than 12 months. The time periods from receipt of an order to shipment date and installation vary widely and are determined by a number of factors, including the terms of the customer contract and the customer’s deployment plan. Due to certain redesign elements to be satisfied prior to shipment of units under certain of our agreements, some of which are outside of our control, some or all of our orders may not ship or convert to revenue. We also have publicly discussed anticipated, pending orders 11 Table of Contents with potential customers; however, those potential customers may require certain conditions or contingencies to be satisfied prior to issuing a purchase order to the Company, some of which are outside of our control. Such conditions or contingencies that may be required to be satisfied before the Company’s receipt of a purchase order may include, but are not limited to, successful product demonstrations or field trials. Some conditions or contingencies that are out of our control may include, but are not limited to, government tax policy, government funding programs, and government incentive programs. Additionally, some conditions and contingencies may extend for several years. We may have to compensate customers, by either reimbursement, forfeiting portions of associated revenue, or other methods depending on the terms of the customer contract, based on the failure on any of these conditions or contingencies. This could have an adverse impact on our revenue and cash flow. Our stock price has been and could remain volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. In 2009 the market price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $1.19 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009 to a low of $0.67 per share in the third quarter of 2009. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, our quarterly operating results, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, our perceived prospects, changes in securities’ analysts’ recommendations or earnings estimates, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, adverse events related to our strategic relationships, significant sales of our common stock by existing stockholders, including one or more of our strategic partners, and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we may be subject to additional securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our common stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A failure to comply with NASDAQ’s listing standards could result in the delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ from the NASDAQ Global Market and severely limit the ability to trade our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. Under NASDAQ’s listing maintenance standards, if the closing bid price of our common stock is under $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ will notify us that we may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If the closing bid price of our common stock does not thereafter regain compliance for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days during the 180 days following notification by NASDAQ, NASDAQ may delist our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. On December 8, 2009, we were notified by NASDAQ that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price listing requirement and therefore had 180 days within which to regain compliance. On March 5, 2010, the per share price of our common stock closed at $0.55 on the NASDAQ Global Market. There can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to remain eligible for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock is delisted and we are unable to list on another exchange, the ability to trade in our common stock would be severely, if not completely, limited. 12 Table of Contents OJSC (Third Generation Company of the Wholesale Electricity Market) (OGK-3) has substantial control over us and could limit stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. OGK-3 and its affiliates own approximately 34% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders can significantly influence or control certain matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. The interests of these stockholders may differ from ours and these stockholders may vote in a way with which we disagree and which may be adverse to our interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. If a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. OGK-3 holds 44,626,939 shares of common stock, which represent in the aggregate approximately 34% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. If OGK-3 or its affiliates sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that OGK-3 might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. Our GenDrive product is fueled by hydrogen and we do not control the availability of such fuel. We are dependant upon hydrogen suppliers for success with the commercialization of our GenDrive product. Although we will continue to work with hydrogen suppliers to mutually agree on terms for our customers, including, but not limited to, price of the hydrogen molecules, liquid hydrogen, hydrogen infrastructure and service costs, to the benefit of our GenDrive product value proposition, ultimately we have no control over such third parties. If hydrogen suppliers elect not to participate in the material handling market or are difficult to negotiate with, then that could negatively affect our sales and deployment of our GenDrive product. A viable market for our products may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Our products represent emerging markets, and we do not know the extent to which our targeted customers will want to purchase them and whether end-users will want to use them. If a viable market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop our products and may be unable to achieve profitability. The development of a viable market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: (i) the cost competitiveness of our products; (ii) the future costs of natural gas, propane, hydrogen and other fuels expected to be used by our products; (iii) consumer reluctance to try a new product; (iv) consumer perceptions of our products’ safety; (v) regulatory requirements; (vi) barriers to entry created by existing energy providers; and (vii) the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to establish or maintain relationships with third parties for certain aspects of product development, manufacturing, distribution and servicing and the supply of key components for our products. We will need to enter into additional strategic relationships in order to complete our current product development and commercialization plans. We will also require partners to assist in the sale, servicing and supply of components for our anticipated products, which are in development. If we are unable to identify or enter into satisfactory agreements with potential partners, including those relating to the distribution, service and support of our anticipated products, we may not be able to complete our product development and commercialization plans on schedule or at all. We may also need to scale back these plans in the absence of needed partners, which would adversely affect our future prospects for development and commercialization of future products. In addition, any arrangement with a strategic partner may require us to issue a significant amount of equity securities to the partner, provide the partner with representation on our board of directors and/or commit significant financial resources to fund our product development efforts in exchange for their assistance or the contribution to us of intellectual property. Any such issuance of equity securities would reduce the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders. While we have entered into relationships with suppliers of some key components for our products, we do not know when or whether we will secure supply relationships for all required components and subsystems for our products, or whether such relationships will be on terms that will allow us to achieve our objectives. Our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we fail to secure relationships with entities which can develop or supply the required components for our products and provide the required distribution and servicing support. Additionally, the agreements governing our current relationships allow for termination by our partners under certain circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. If any of our current strategic partners were to terminate any of its agreements with us, there could be a material adverse impact on the development and commercialization of our products and the operation of our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We rely on our partners to develop and provide components for our products. A supplier’s failure to develop and supply components in a timely manner or at all, or to develop or supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could harm our ability to manufacture our products. In addition, to the extent that our supply partners use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative sources. We have supply agreements with certain key suppliers, including, but not limited to, Ballard Power Systems, that we rely on for critical components in our products and there are numerous other components for our products that are sole sourced. We have not developed and produced certain products that we have agreed to sell to some of our customers. We have not developed or produced certain products that are required by some of our sales and customer agreements. There can be no assurance that we will complete development of products meeting specifications required by our sales and customer agreements and deliver them on schedule. Pursuant to certain agreements, the customers have the right to provide notice to us if, in their good faith judgment, we have materially deviated from the agreement. Should a customer provide such notice, and we cannot mutually agree to a modification to the agreement, then the customer may have the right to terminate the agreement, which could adversely affect our future business. 14 Table of Contents We must lower the cost of our products and demonstrate their reliability. The initial capital cost of our fuel cell systems is currently significantly more than many established competing technologies. If we are unable to develop products that are competitive with competing technologies in terms of price, reliability and longevity, consumers will be unlikely to buy our products. The profitability of our products depends largely on material and manufacturing costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to lower these costs to the level where we will be able to produce a competitive product or that any product produced using lower cost materials and manufacturing processes will not suffer from a reduction in performance, reliability and longevity. We face risks associated with our plans to market, distribute and service our products internationally. We intend to market, distribute and service our products internationally. We have limited experience developing and manufacturing our products to comply with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets. Our success in international markets will depend, in part, on our ability and that of our partners to secure relationships with foreign sub-distributors, and our ability to manufacture products that meet foreign regulatory and commercial requirements. Additionally, our planned international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights in foreign countries and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Also, to the extent our operations and assets are located in foreign countries, they are potentially subject to nationalization actions over which we will have no control. Our international sales and operations may be adversely affected by local government laws, regulations and policies and changes to the same. Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations, and repatriation of earnings. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to political and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. For example, as a condition of sale or to the awarding of a contract, some international customers require us to agree to offset arrangements, which may include in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support arrangements. The contract may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries which may carry high levels of currency, political and economic risk. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Delays in our product development could have a material impact on the commercialization of our products. If we experience delays in meeting our development goals, our products exhibit technical defects, or if we are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including power output, useful life and reliability, the commercialization of our products will be delayed. In this event, potential purchasers of our products may choose alternative technologies and any delays could allow potential competitors to gain market advantages. We cannot assure you that we will successfully meet our commercialization schedule in the future. 15 Table of Contents We may never complete the research and development of certain commercially viable products. We are a development stage company. Other than certain products within our GenCore, GenSys and GenDrive product families, which we believe to be commercially viable at this time, we do not know when or whether we will successfully complete research and development of other commercially viable products. If we are unable to develop additional commercially viable products, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. The commercialization of our products depends on our ability to reduce the costs of our components and subsystems, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently reduce these costs. In addition, the commercialization of our products requires achievement and verification of their overall reliability, efficiency and safety targets, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop, acquire or license the technology necessary to achieve these targets. Although we increased the number of units sold in our GenCore, GenSys and GenDrive product families, we must complete additional research and development to fill out product portfolios and deliver enhanced functionality and reliability before we will be able to manufacture commercially viable products in commercial quantities. In addition, while we are conducting tests to predict the overall life of our products, we may not have run our products over their projected useful life prior to large-scale commercialization. As a result, we cannot be sure that our products will last as long as predicted, resulting in possible warranty claims and commercial failures. Failure of our field tests could negatively impact demand for our products. We are currently field-testing a number of our products, and we plan to conduct additional field tests in the future. We may encounter problems and delays during these field tests for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology or the technology of third parties, as well as our failure to maintain and service our products properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. Any problem or perceived problem with our field tests could materially harm our reputation and impair market acceptance of, and demand for, our products. Product liability or defects could negatively impact our results of operations. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions or design defects could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products resulting in a decline in demand for our products and could divert the attention of our management, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face intense competition and may be unable to compete successfully. The markets for energy products are intensely competitive. Some of our competitors in the fuel cell sector are much larger than we are and may have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development and commercialization of commercially viable fuel cell products more quickly and effectively than we can. In addition, there are many companies engaged in all areas of traditional and alternative energy generation in the United States, Canada and abroad, including, among others, major electric, oil, chemical, natural gas, battery, generator and specialized electronics firms, as well as universities, research institutions and foreign government-sponsored companies. These firms are engaged in forms of power generation such as solar and wind power, reciprocating engines and micro turbines, advanced battery technologies, as well as traditional grid-supplied electric power. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. 16 Table of Contents Alternatives to our technology or improvements to traditional energy technologies could make our products less attractive or render them obsolete. Our products are among a number of alternative energy products being developed. A significant amount of public and private funding is currently directed toward development of micro turbines, solar power, wind power, advanced batteries and generator sets, fast charged technologies and other types of fuel cell technologies. Improvements are also being made to the existing electric transmission system and battery based systems. Technological advances in alternative energy products, improvements in the electric power grid, battery systems or other fuel cell technologies may make our products less attractive or render them obsolete. We depend on only a few customers for the majority of our revenues and the loss of any one or more of these customers, or a significant loss, reduction or rescheduling of orders from any of these customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell most of our products to a small number of customers, and while we are continually seeking to expand our customer base, we expect this will continue for the next several years. Any decline in business with these small numbers of customers could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success is dependent upon the continued purchases of our products by a small number of customers. Any fluctuations in demand from such customers or other customers may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to broaden our customer base and expand relationships with potential customers, our business will continue to be impacted by unanticipated demand fluctuations due to our dependence on a small number of customers. Unanticipated demand fluctuations can have a negative impact on our revenues and business, and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a small number of major customers exposes us to numerous other risks, including: (i) a slowdown or delay in a customer’s deployment of our products could significantly reduce demand for our products; (ii) reductions in a single customer’s forecasts and demand could result in excess inventories; (iii) the current economic crisis could negatively affect one or more of our major customers and cause them to significantly reduce operations, or file for bankruptcy; (iv) consolidation of customers can reduce demand as well as increase pricing pressure on our products due to increased purchasing leverage; (v) each of our customers has significant purchasing leverage over us to require changes in sales terms including pricing, payment terms and product delivery schedules; and (vi) concentration of accounts receivable credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if one of our major customers declared bankruptcy or delayed payment of their receivables. The hydrocarbon fuels and other raw materials on which our products rely may not be readily available or available on a cost-effective basis. Our products depend largely on the availability of natural gas, liquid propane and hydrogen gas. If these fuels are not readily available or if their prices are such that energy produced by our products costs more than energy provided by other sources, then our products could be less attractive to potential users and our products’ value proposition could be negatively affected. In addition, platinum is a key material in our PEM fuel cells. Platinum is a scarce natural resource and we are dependent upon a sufficient supply of this commodity. Any shortages could adversely affect our ability to produce commercially viable fuel cell systems and significantly raise our cost of producing our fuel cell systems. 17 Table of Contents We may have difficulty managing change in our operations. We continue to undergo rapid change in the scope and breadth of our operations as we advance the development and commercialization of our products. Such rapid change is likely to place a significant strain on our senior management team and other resources. We will be required to make significant investments in our engineering, logistics, financial and management information systems and to motivate and effectively manage our employees. Our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by such a rapid change. Our future plans could be harmed if we are unable to attract or retain key personnel. We have attracted a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers, manufacturing, marketing and sales professionals. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel. We do not know whether we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could materially and adversely affect our development and commercialization plans and, therefore, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include those that: (i) authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series without a stockholder vote; (ii) limit stockholders’ ability to call special meetings; (iii) establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and (iv) provide for staggered terms for our directors. We have a shareholders rights plan that may be triggered if a person or group of affiliated or associated persons acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, in certain circumstances, Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Adverse changes in general economic conditions in the United States or any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As a global company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. For example, as a result of the ongoing financial crisis in the credit markets, softness in the housing markets, difficulties in the financial services sector and continuing economic uncertainties, the direction and relative strength of the U.S. economy has become increasingly uncertain. If economic growth in the United States and other countries continues to slow or recede, our current or potential customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale commercial basis and may be unable to do so. To date, we have focused primarily on research, development and low volume manufacturing and have no experience manufacturing our products on a large-scale commercial basis. In 2000, we completed construction of our 50,000 square foot manufacturing facility and have continued to develop our manufacturing capabilities and processes. In 2009, we engaged a contract manufacturer in India to augment our manufacturing capabilities. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture our products in commercial quantities while meeting the quality, price, engineering, design, and production standards required to successfully market our products. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capabilities and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedule or to satisfy the requirements of our distributors or customers. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets required by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) No. 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other and the application of future accounting policies or interpretations of existing accounting policies. In accordance with FASB ASC No. 350, we perform an annual assessment on goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment and also an assessment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below it’s carrying amount. A downward revision in the fair value of one of our acquired businesses could result in impairments of goodwill under FASB ASC No. 350 and non-cash charges. Any charge resulting from the application of FASB ASC No. 350 could have a significant negative effect on our reported net loss. In addition, our financial results could be negatively impacted by the application of existing and future accounting policies or interpretations of existing accounting policies, any continuing impact of FASB ASC No. 350 or any negative impact relating to the application of FASB ASC No. 360-10-35-15, Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. Regulatory changes may affect demand for our products. The market for electric power generation products is heavily influenced by federal, state and international governmental regulations and policies. A change in the current regulatory policies could result in a significant reduction in the demand for our products or could deter further investment in the research and development of alternative energy sources, including fuel cells. Government regulatory changes may affect the market for our products. Similarly, utility companies could place barriers on our entry into the marketplace where customers depend on traditional grid supplied energy, such as the fees that may be charged to industrial companies for disconnecting from the grid or for using less electricity and this could affect customers’ decisions. The imposition of such fees could increase the cost to grid-connected customers of using our products and could make our products less desirable, thereby harming our revenue and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Our business may become subject to future government regulation, which may impact our ability to market our products. Our products are subject to certain federal, local, and non-U.S. laws and regulations, including, for example, state and local ordinances relating to building codes, public safety, electrical and gas pipeline connections, hydrogen transportation and siting and related matters. Further, as products are introduced into the market commercially, governments may impose new regulations. We do not know the extent to which any such regulations may impact our ability to distribute, install and service our products. Any regulation of our products, whether at the federal, state, local or foreign level, including any regulations relating to installation and servicing of our products, may increase our costs and the price of our products. Our products use flammable fuels that are inherently dangerous substances. Our fuel cell systems use natural gas, liquid propane and hydrogen gas in catalytic reactions, which produce less heat than a typical gas furnace. While our products do not use this fuel in a combustion process, natural gas, liquid propane and hydrogen gas are flammable fuels that could leak in a home or office and combust if ignited by another source. Further, while we are not aware of any accidents involving our products, any such accidents involving our products or other products using similar flammable fuels could materially suppress demand for, or heighten regulatory scrutiny of, our products. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; and if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to acquire them on commercially acceptable terms or at all. As part of our business strategy we may engage in acquisitions that we believe will provide us with complementary technologies, products, channels, revenue streams, expertise and/or other valuable assets. Future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, add additional burden to our management and reduce the percentage ownership of our stockholders. If we acquire another company, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired business into our existing business in a timely and non-disruptive manner. We may have to devote a significant amount of time, management and financial resources to do so. Even with this investment of management and financial resources, an acquisition may not produce the desired revenues, earnings or business synergies. In addition, an acquisition involving our stock may reduce the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders. If we fail to integrate the acquired business effectively or if key employees of that business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. The time, capital, management and other resources spent on an acquisition that fails to meet our expectations could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, from an accounting perspective, acquisitions can lead to non-recurring charges and amortization or impairment of significant amounts of intangible assets that could adversely affect our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect important intellectual property and we could incur substantial costs defending against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. PEM fuel cell technology was first developed in the 1950s, and fuel processing technology has been practiced on a large scale in the petrochemical industry for decades. Accordingly, we do not believe that we can establish a significant proprietary position in the fundamental component technologies in these areas. However, our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary system-level technologies, systems designs and manufacturing processes. We rely on patents, trademarks, and other policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. Moreover, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. In addition, we do not know whether the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office will grant federal registrations based on our pending trademark applications. Even if federal registrations are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is also possible that our competitors or others will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thus impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending trademark infringement suits. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing third party patents, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages, and we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our products, and could necessitate the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly and failure to do so may diminish our ability to compete effectively and may harm our operating results. We may need to pursue lawsuits or legal action in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine the priority of rights to the trademark. Similarly, competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with ours. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time consuming, and we could use a substantial amount of our financial resources in either case. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. 21 Table of Contents Our government contracts could restrict our ability to effectively commercialize our technology. Some of our technology has been developed with state and federal government funding in the United States, Canada and other countries. The United States and Canadian governments have a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable world-wide license to practice or have practiced any of our technology developed under contracts funded by the respective government. In some cases, government agencies in the United States or Canada can require us to obtain or produce components for our systems from sources located in the United States or Canada, respectively, rather than foreign countries. Our contracts with government agencies are also subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency, potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties and the exercise of “march-in” rights by the government. March-in rights refer to the right of the United States or Canadian governments or government agency to license to others any technology developed under contracts funded by the government if the contractor fails to continue to develop the technology. The implementation of restrictions on our sourcing of components or the exercise of march-in rights could harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, under the Freedom of Information Act, any documents that we have submitted to the government or to a contractor under a government funding arrangement are subject to public disclosure that could compromise our intellectual property rights unless such documents are exempted as trade secrets or as confidential information and treated accordingly by such government agencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year. 