Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before deciding whether to purchase any of our securities. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our prospects could be harmed. In that event, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Financial Condition A default under our Credit Agreement with Fortress could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position. We have two term loans (in the amount of $5 million each) with Fortress Credit Co LLC (which we refer to, together with its affiliates, as “Fortress”) pursuant to a credit agreement, which is secured by certain of our assets. We are required to satisfy certain financial and reporting covenants under the credit agreement, including a requirement to maintain a minimum of $1,500,000 of unrestricted cash at each month end. We previously had a credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank and paid off our Silicon Valley Bank credit facility with a portion of the proceeds of our July 2013 Fortress loans. We subsequently terminated the Silicon Valley Bank loan agreements. If we default under our obligations under the credit agreement, Fortress could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness or declare all obligations under the credit agreement to be due and payable. In certain circumstances, procedures by Fortress could result in a loss by us of all of our non-’972 patents, which are included in the collateral granted to Fortress. If any indebtedness under the credit agreement were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness. In addition, upon any distribution of assets pursuant to any liquidation, insolvency, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding, the holders of secured indebtedness will be entitled to receive payment in full from the proceeds of the collateral securing our secured indebtedness before the holders of other indebtedness or our common stock will be entitled to receive any distribution with respect thereto. A large percentage of our sales come from a few customers, some of which are also competitors, and these customers generally have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our sales have been and continue to be concentrated among a few customers. Sales to our top three customers in fiscal 2013 represented 67.5% of total revenue, and HP, our largest customer, represented 45.0% of our total revenue. Furthermore, customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume and our relationships with our customers are terminable at will. In addition, from time to time these customers have solicited, and may in the future solicit, bids from us and our competitors for products and services we are currently providing, which could reduce or terminate all or a part of our relationship with that customer. If we experience declines in revenue from any of our large customers, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain of our large customers are also our competitors, and such customers could decide to reduce or terminate their purchases of our products for competitive reasons. Merger and acquisition activity, such as the purchase of Data Domain by EMC, could increase the risk that large customers reduce or terminate their purchases of our products. Many of our tape and disk products are primarily incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold to end users by our large original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers as well as our value added resellers (VARs), system integrators (Sis), and other strategic partners. Because of this, we have limited market access to these end users, limiting our ability to reach and influence their purchasing decisions. These market conditions further our reliance on these OEM and other large customers. Thus if they were to significantly reduce, cancel or delay their orders with us, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. 8 We derive most of our product sales revenue from sales of virtual tape servers, and if demand for these systems does not grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We derive most of our product sales revenue from sales of virtual tape servers and associated customer support and services. As a result, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these systems, whether as a result of competing technologies and products, the impact of the continuing weakening of U.S. and global economic conditions, decreases or delays in corporate spending for information technologies, product obsolescence, lack of customer acceptance, technological change, customer budgetary constraints or other factors. If demand for our systems does not grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We face significant competition and expect this competition to intensify, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue, reduce our gross margins and result in the loss of market share. The market for our products is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Other companies have introduced and may in the future introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter. Currently, we face competition from traditional providers of tape-based storage systems as well as a number of established storage companies that offer a variety of different disk-based storage products. Some of our strategic partners currently market products and services that compete with our products. We also compete with a number of emerging hardware and software companies that may become more significant competitors in the future. In addition, at the low-end of our product line, we may compete with other hardware or software providers that incorporate data storage and protection capabilities in their products. New competitive offerings have been recently announced or introduced in our marketplace by our competitors, and we anticipate additional offerings by our competitors may be announced or introduced in 2014. Further, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, sales and other resources than we do and may in some cases benefit from lower costs than we do. In some cases, they also have more recognizable brands than our own. Competition in the past has resulted in pricing pressure on our products and services, and we anticipate that pricing pressure will increase in the future. Competition has in some instances resulted in a negative impact on the length of our sales cycle, and we may experience longer sales cycles in future periods due to increased competition. In particular, if a large number of orders, or a large dollar value order, is delayed or cancelled, our financial results may be harmed. Competition may result in reduced gross margins for our products, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or the loss of, market share. Our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer and future revenues in any period may be lower than our historical revenues or forecasts Our sales are difficult to forecast because the data storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This is particularly true during times of economic slowdown and when selling products that require complex installations. Additional factors that may extend our sales cycle, particularly orders for new products, include: · the amount of time needed for technical evaluations by customers; ⋅ customers’ budget constraints and changes to customers’ budgets during the course of the sales cycle; · customers’ internal review and testing procedures; ⋅ the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; · our engineering work necessary to integrate a storage solution with a customer’s system; ⋅ the complexity of technical challenges that need to be overcome during the development, testing or qualification process for new products or new customers; · fluctuations in our IP revenue; ⋅ meeting unique customer specifications and requirements; and · difficulties by our customers in integrating our products and technologies into their own products. Our product revenue is difficult for us to predict since it is directly affected by the timing of orders. In addition, our operating expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations, our operating results may be disproportionately affected. We cannot assure you that our sales will not decline in future periods. Some of our revenue is subject to the pricing policies of our customers over whom we have no control. We have no control over our customers' pricing of their products and there can be no assurance that licensed products will be competitively priced or will sell in significant volumes. One important requirement for licensed technology is that for any premium charged by our customers in the price of their products utilizing our licensed technology over alternatives to be reasonable in comparison to the perceived benefits of the products. If the benefits of our technology do not match the price premium charged by our customers, the resulting decline in sales of products incorporating our technology could harm our operating results. 9 Our products handle mission-critical data for our customers and are highly technical in nature. If customer data is lost or corrupted, or our products contain software errors or hardware defects, we could have product liability exposure and our reputation and business could be harmed. Our products are involved in storing and replicating mission-critical data for our customers. The process of storing, protecting and replicating that data is highly technical and complex. If any data is lost or corrupted in connection with the use of our products, our reputation could be seriously harmed and market acceptance of our products could suffer. In addition, our products have contained and may in the future contain software errors, hardware defects or security vulnerabilities. We rely on our suppliers to deliver high quality components for use in our products and we have limited or no control over our suppliers’ product development and production processes. Some software errors or defects in the hardware components of our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers, which could increase our support costs, reduce our margins and harm our reputation among our customers. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. We face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. In addition, we could potentially face claims for product liability from our customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. Focusing our business model on leveraging OEM and strategic partners with respect to sales of the StrongBox® product and intellectual property monetization may not result in anticipated benefits. As we announced in 2013, we undertook a significant reduction in force and are focusing our strategy primarily on leveraging OEM and strategic partners with respect to the Crossroads StrongBox® product and are also focusing our efforts on realizing the value of our intellectual property. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. In particular, these new strategies may not have the business success that we hope for and our reduction in force may not ultimately result in the cost savings that management anticipates. Our strategy may place increased demands on our personnel and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent, and to perform our accounting, finance and administrative functions. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key technical and sales personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our success also is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales and research and development departments. Our dependence on attracting and retaining qualified personnel is particularly significant in light of our recent reduction in force announced in October 2013. Following that reduction in force, we have less redundancy and excess capacity in our workforce, which heightens the risks and potential negative consequences that could result from the departure of certain key management, technical or sales personnel that we may have difficulty replacing. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. 10 Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. In the year ended October 31, 2013, we derived approximately 7.2% of our revenue from international customers. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: · the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; ⋅ our executive officers’ lack of proximity to the international activities being managed and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow; · the management of our relationships with distributors outside the United States, whose sales and lead generation activities are very important to our international operations; ⋅ difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; · tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets; ⋅ increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; · potential exposure to adverse tax consequences; ⋅ shortages in component parts and raw materials; · import and export and trade regulation changes that could erode our profit margins or restrict our ability to transport our products; ⋅ the burden and cost of complying with foreign and U.S. laws governing corporate conduct outside the U.S.; · potential restrictions on the transfer of funds between countries; ⋅ import and export duties and value-added taxes; · natural disasters, including earthquakes, typhoons and tsunamis; ⋅ increased exposure to possible violations of U.S. laws regulating the export of our products, and to other U.S. and foreign laws affecting the conduct of business globally such as product certification, environmental and waste management and data privacy laws; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and ⋅ political and economic instability. Sales to international customers may also result in greater shipping costs and additional expenses to conform our products to the requirements of local laws or local product specifications. As we continue to expand our business internationally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce or delay our international sales, result in fines and penalties and reduce profitability on a dollar adjusted basis. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. For the years ended October 31, 2012 and 2013, we recorded net losses of approximately $10.7 million and $12.1 million, respectively. We may incur additional losses in future periods. We expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including those discussed in other risk factors and factors that we cannot foresee. In addition, continued losses may cause us to undertake cost reduction plans. If we undertake cost reduction initiatives or restructuring plans, these plans may adversely impact our operations, may cause us to recognize restructuring or other charges and may not result in our realizing any or all of the anticipated benefits of these plans. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have restructured our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further changes of our operations and headcount may be required. Our operating structure has changed recently, and any changes or future growth will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future change, we will need to hire, train, integrate and retain a number of highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. We could encounter delays or difficulties in implementing any of these systems. If we do not effectively hire, train, integrate and retain sufficient highly qualified personnel to support any future growth, and if we do not effectively manage the associated increases in expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 11 Any shortages in components used in our products could delay shipment of our products or increase our product costs, which could harm our business. Significant time and effort would be required to locate new vendors for the components we use in our products, if available at all, to qualify replacement components or to develop our products using alternative suppliers. The unavailability of any necessary components could delay or prevent us from shipping our products. Component suppliers may be vulnerable to pressure from large purchasers of their products, who may be competitors of ours, to allocate available component supplies to them. The global economic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers and their liquidity, and the availability of, or terms and conditions on which we purchase, their products and services. In addition, increased demand generally by third parties for the components we use in our products may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components. If we experience shortages in components that we use in our products, or do not accurately predict the availability of and demand for such components, or if new product introductions by our suppliers do not meet our expectations for timing, availability, functionality, performance, quality or price, then our business and gross margins could be negatively impacted, and our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we undertake any restructuring activities. From time to time, we may undertake to restructure our business, such as the reductions in our workforce that we announced during 2013. There are several factors that could cause a restructuring to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations, the development of our technology, the deliveries to our customers and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and we may lose employees whom we want to keep. Loss of sales, service and engineering talent, in particular, could damage our business. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. Employee reductions or other restructuring activities also cause us to incur restructuring and related expenses such as severance expenses. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense Recent turmoil in the financial markets and the global economic conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industry, business and gross margins. The challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets and the future economic environment may continue to be significantly less favorable than those of recent years. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, in particular for data storage and protection products for backup storage and network-based disaster recovery. Information technology spending has historically declined with worsening general economic and market conditions, and we believe the economic conditions previously caused our customers to significantly reduce or delay their information technology purchases and that these reductions and delays negatively impacted demand for our products and services and our business. If the U.S. and global economic conditions worsen and if our customers believe economic conditions will not improve or a downturn will occur in the foreseeable future, then our customers may continue to significantly reduce their information technology budgets and may decrease their demand for our products and services. As a result of this economic slowdown and the ongoing tightening of credit markets, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or the continued global economic conditions may cause our customers to delay or cancel their purchases, increase the time they take to pay or default on their payment obligations. The global economic conditions may not only cause our customers to significantly reduce or delay their information technology budgets, which would negatively impact demand for our products and services, but may also result in: · increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors, but also as a result of our customers’ or potential customers’ utilization of inventoried or underutilized products, which could put additional pressure on our near term gross profits; · risk of excess or obsolete inventories; · excess engineering capacity and higher associated overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; and · more limited ability to accurately forecast our business and future financial performance. 12 As a result of the recent and ongoing economic conditions, we may face new risks that we have not yet identified. In addition, a number of the risks associated with our business, which are disclosed in these risk factors, may increase in likelihood, magnitude or duration. Litigation, Regulation and Business Risks Related to our Intellectual Property We face current and potential adverse determinations in litigation stemming from our efforts to protect and enforce our patents and intellectual property rights and make other claims, which could broadly impact our intellectual property rights, distract our management and cause substantial expenses and declines in our revenue and stock price. The success of our business depends on sustaining or growing our royalty and contract revenue and the failure to achieve such revenue may lead to decline in our results of operations. Our revenue increasingly consists of patent and technology license fees paid for access to our patents and developed technology and development and support services provided to our customers. Our ability to secure the licenses from which our revenues are derived depends on our customers adopting our technology and using it in the products they sell. If we do not achieve our revenue goals, our results of operations could decline. We have transferred a significant portion of our intellectual property to a limited partnership that we do not fully control, and efforts by this partnership to generate revenues for us may not be successful. In July 2013, we entered into a credit agreement and a related intellectual property transaction with Fortress Credit Co LLC (which we refer to, together with its affiliates, as “Fortress”), which is an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group LLC (the Fortress Transactions). In connection with the Fortress Transactions, we transferred substantially all of our patents, other than our ’972 patent family, to a limited partnership KIP CR P1 LP (which we refer to as the partnership) of which we are a limited partner and of which an affiliate of Fortress is the general partner. The partnership now controls 109 pending or granted non-’972 patents. There was no licensing activity during fiscal year 2013 associated with these patents. Fortress generally has the power to manage, control and conduct the business and affairs of the partnership. While the limited partnership agreement gives us the right to consent to certain actions, as a limited partner we do not control the partnership. We are heavily reliant on Fortress as we have a limited ability to direct the monetization strategies (or determine whether any such monetization efforts will occur) for our intellectual property assigned to this partnership without Fortress’s consent. In addition, if we default under our credit agreement with Fortress, our ability to exercise control over the partnership will be further limited. The partnership poses risks not otherwise present when we alone seek to monetize our intellectual property, for example: · Fortress, as the general partner, may not decide to take, or decide not to take, actions that we believe to be in our best interest; ⋅ we may incur liabilities as a result of actions taken, or not taken, by the partnership and by Fortress; · we may be required to devote significant management time to the requirements of and matters relating to the partnership, including litigation and licensing matters, as well management of the partnership relationship; ⋅ any strategy or other disputes between us Fortress may result in delays, expenses or operational impasses; and · while we have retained a fully paid-up, royalty-free, worldwide, non-transferable, non-exclusive license to use the assigned patents, these patents are now owned by a third party not under our control, and will remain as such unless and until we are able to buy out Fortress’s interest in the partnership described below. This partnership may attempt to pursue patent licensing and enforcement activity that may generate revenues for us. However, we cannot assure you that any efforts to generate revenues will be successful, and we cannot predict the timing of revenues, if any are generated. Unless and until we exercise our option to purchase Fortress’s interest in the partnership, which we may not do until we have paid off our Fortress loan, any revenues generated will be subject to a waterfall payment in the limited partnership agreement under which Fortress will receive a portion of such revenues, and the revenues allocated to us must be used to repay the Fortress loan. 13 The risks described above could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of the partnership and any intellectual property monetization strategy, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our revenue comes from our licensing program. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, licensing revenue could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our IP licensing revenue for the year ended October 31, 2013 was $1.5 million, or approximately 12.0% of revenues. If we experience declines in revenue from our licensees, as a result of economic conditions, customers’ business performance, or otherwise, we could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and manufacture new products that achieve acceptance in the data protection and the network storage software markets, our operating results may suffer. The data protection and the network storage software markets continue to evolve and as a result there is continuing demand for new products. Accordingly, we may need to develop and manufacture new products that address additional data protection or network storage software market segments and emerging technologies to remain competitive in the data storage software industry. We are uncertain whether we will successfully qualify new data protection or network storage software products with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications. Any failure to address additional market segments could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry and changes in existing technologies or the emergence of new products or technologies could reduce demand for our products and significantly harm our business. The data storage market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions, new protocols, evolving industry standards, consolidation among our competitors, suppliers and customers and evolving customer preferences. The introduction of new products by our competitors or us, or new entrants into the storage market, could render our existing products obsolete or uncompetitive. Additionally, changes in existing technologies could cause demand for our products to decline. For example, if changes in technology result in a significant reduction in the price for hard disk drives, enterprises may not need to utilize information security, data protection, information assurance, business information assurance, business continuity, disaster recovery, data privacy, risk management, fraud prevention, corporate governance and regulatory compliance products or services. One or more new technologies also could be introduced that compete favorably with our products or that cause our products to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. In addition, because our products work with enterprise backup software applications to transfer and store data in the storage environment, we are dependent on enterprises’ use of these applications for data protection and disaster recovery purposes. If enterprises adopt products or technologies that enable them to protect and recover their data, demand for our products and services would be reduced significantly. Our operating results depend on new product introductions, which may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new ones. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these efforts. We cannot provide assurance that: · we will introduce new products in the timeframe we forecast; ⋅ we will not experience technical, quality, performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay the introduction and market acceptance of new products; · our new products will achieve market acceptance and significant market share, or that the markets for these products will continue or grow as we have anticipated; ⋅ our new products will be successfully or timely qualified with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications which must occur before customers will place large product orders; or · we will achieve high volume production of these new products in a timely manner, if at all. If we are not successful in timely completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers, this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty and repair costs. 14 The inability of our products to interoperate with backup software applications would cause our product and licensing business to suffer. We have designed our products to interoperate with the leading enterprise backup software applications available in the market. If our products are not compatible with the leading backup software applications, demand for our products will decline. Some backup software providers currently offer products that compete with ours and other providers may do so in the future. Backup software providers may in the future make changes that would diminish the ability of our products to interoperate with their applications. If this were to occur, we may need to spend significant time and effort to ensure the continued compatibility of our products, which may not be possible at all. Any of these developments could significantly harm our business. Our products must conform to industry standards and integrate smoothly with user systems in order to be accepted by customers in our markets. We offer our software on a stand-alone basis and as part of a product in which we install our software onto third party hardware. Our current products are only one part of a storage system. All components of these systems must comply with the same industry standards in order to operate together efficiently. We depend on companies that provide other components of these systems to conform to industry standards. Some industry standards may not be widely adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be preferred by OEM customers or end users. If other providers of components do not support the same industry standards as we do, if competing standards emerge or if our products are not easy to deploy or do not integrate smoothly with end user systems, our products may not achieve market acceptance, which would adversely affect our business. Issues with the hardware on which our software products are installed could increase our support costs and result in lower sales of our products. We deliver some of our products, both through our resellers and directly to end-users, installed on third party hardware. If the hardware does not function properly, our support costs will go up. We will have to arrange or pay for the repair or replacement of the broken hardware and we may have to increase the size of our support operations. Hardware reliability issues could also result in reputational harm to our company and could cause resellers and end-users to refuse to make purchases from us, even if our software products function properly. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We also maintain an active licensing program related to our patent portfolio pursuing licensing fees for past shipments and recurring licensing fees related to ongoing shipments. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Further, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even issued patents may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. It is also possible that we may find it necessary or advantageous to enter into similar cross licenses in the future with other actual or potential competitors. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be costly and divert management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. 15 We may not prevail in our litigation proceedings, which could cause us to incur significant legal expenditures without any related revenue. We currently and in the past have initiated litigation for the infringement of certain of our patents. As with any litigation, the outcome is uncertain, and although we intend to vigorously pursue our claims, there are no guarantees that we can protect our intellectual property rights in our current litigation or prevent the unauthorized use of our technology in the future. The litigation will be lengthy and costly. Additionally, unintended consequences of our litigation may adversely affect our business, including, without limitation, that we may have to devote significant time and financial resources to pursuing the litigation, that we may become subject to counterclaims or lawsuits and that the expenses of pursuing the litigation could increase based upon new developments. In addition, if we do not prevail in our patent litigation, the consequences could involve the circumvention or invalidation of our patents, which could have a material adverse effect on our ongoing licensing program and our ability to enforce our existing licenses. These and other factors not currently known to or deemed material by management, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, prospects, liquidity and results of operations. Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear other cases. As a result, it is sometimes difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend toward increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could adversely affect our business and operating results. If Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office or courts implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our business and operating results. This, in turn, could reduce the value of our patents. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on the number of defendants that can be joined in a single patent litigation, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards and new procedures for invalidating patents, increased difficulty for parties making patent assertions to obtain injunctions, and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent rights successfully, decrease the revenue associated with asserting or licensing our patent rights and increase the cost of bringing patent enforcement actions. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our products against our customers and distributors. Any of these claims may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally are obligated to indemnify our distributors and our customers from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages to, or on behalf of, our customers or distributors, which could seriously harm our business. 16 We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive, and our investment in product development may involve a long investment return cycle. For the year ended October 31, 2013, our research and development expenses were approximately $10.5 million, or approximately 82.9% of revenue. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. These investments may not generate positive returns in the near term, or at all. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our headquarters facilities contain redundant power supplies and generators. However, our domestic and foreign operations, and the operation of our strategic and OEM partners, VARs, SIs and others, remain susceptible to fire, floods, tornadoes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or delay the manufacture and shipment of our products, our business would be harmed. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications system for product sales and licensing and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results. We depend on IT and telecommunications systems for our operations. These systems support a variety of functions including data storage and retrieval, order processing, shipping, shipment tracking, billing, support center and internal information exchange. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, shipping products, billing customers, handling support calls, or communication among our offices. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationship with our customers. Our support centers are dependent upon telephone and data services provided by third party telecommunications service vendors and our IT and telecommunications system. Any significant increase in our IT and telecommunications costs or temporary or permanent loss of our IT or telecommunications systems could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Risks Related to Capitalization Matters and Corporate Governance The share price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in these risk factors and elsewhere in our reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, factors that may cause volatility in our share price include: · our ability to meet our working capital needs; ⋅ quarterly variations in operating results; · changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts who may cover our stock or by our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; ⋅ changes in market valuations of other similar companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic relationships or joint ventures; ⋅ additions or departures of key personnel; · any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; 17 · unfavorable legal or regulatory rulings associated with the enforcement of our IP rights; ⋅ the realization of any of the risk factors presented in this annual report; and · future sales of common stock. Furthermore, the stock markets recently have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes, international currency fluctuations or political unrest, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If one or more of the analysts who decide to cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. If our common stock is delisted, the market value of, and your ability to transfer or sell, shares of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. In order to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we are required to meet specified financial requirements, including requirements that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock and that we maintain (i) a minimum stockholders’ equity of $2,500,000, (ii) a minimum market value of listed common stock of $35,000,000 or (iii) net income from continuing operations of at least $500,000 in the most recent fiscal year or two of the last three fiscal years. On January 29, 2013, we received a notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that we were no longer in compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, and as of January 28, 2013 we did not meet the alternatives of market value of listed securities or net income from continuing operations. Our plan to address the deficiency included our March 2013 private placement. After our private placement, on April 2, 2013, Nasdaq notified us that we had regained compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity standard. On September 18, 2013, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department indicating that we no longer complied with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market as a result of our stockholders’ equity of $(6.2) million as of July 31, 2013. Because we did not meet the alternatives of market value of listed securities or net income from continuing operations, we were not in compliance with the Nasdaq listing rules. As of October 31, 2013, the end of our most recently completed fiscal year, we were not in compliance with these requirements and had a stockholders’ deficit of $(7.9) million. Approximately $6.4 million of our stockholders’ deficit results from the required accounting treatment associated with our convertible preferred stock. The convertible preferred stock issued in our March 2013 private placement contains what is commonly known as a “full ratchet” anti-dilution provision. The full ratchet anti-dilution provision was not in effect until stockholder approval was obtained at our annual meeting of stockholders held on June 21, 2013. As such, prior to the receipt of stockholder approval the convertible preferred stock was accounted for as if such provisions were not in place. Following stockholder approval, as a result of the convertible preferred stock becoming potentially convertible into more shares of common stock than currently authorized as a result of the potential operation of the full ratchet anti-dilution provision, the convertible preferred stock was reclassified outside of permanent stockholders’ equity for the quarters ended July 31, 2013 and October 31, 2013. Upon the expiration of the full ratchet anti-dilution provisions on the one-year anniversary of the March 2013 private placement, we expect the convertible preferred stock to be reclassified back to permanent stockholders’ equity. However, the classification of the convertible preferred stock outside of permanent stockholders’ equity reduces our stockholders’ equity and negatively impacts our ability to satisfy the Nasdaq Capital Market’s minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for quarters ended after April 30, 2013 until the full ratchet anti-dilution provisions expire. This could result in further notices of non-compliance or proceedings to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. 18 We are currently evaluating various alternative courses of action to regain compliance. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to transfer or sell your shares of the common stock may be limited and the market value of the common stock may be materially adversely affected as a result of lower trading volumes or trade delays. Further, delisting from Nasdaq, or even the issuance of a notice of potential delisting, would also result in negative publicity, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs and diminish investor, business partner and employee confidence. We face a challenging liquidity environment and may require additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain necessary financing or doing so on unfavorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations. We have historically relied on outside financing, cash flows from operations, and IP licensing and settlement revenue to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We currently face a difficult liquidity environment, and expect to require significant capital expenditures as we continue to introduce StrongBox into the marketplace. Expected revenue from our newly introduced StrongBox product has been slower to materialize than expected, as the selling cycle for StrongBox is longer than our other lines, limiting our cash provided by operations from sales of StrongBox. We also may require additional capital from equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may limit our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business, to bring our products to market and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Recent changes in our management and board of directors may lead to instability and may negatively affect our business. We have recently experienced a change in our Chief Executive Officer and significant turnover in our board of directors. In April 2013, Steven Ledger, Chairman of the board of directors of the Company, and Joseph A. Hartnett, a director, each informed the board of directors that they would not stand for re-election at the 2013 Annual Meeting, and Richard K. Coleman, Jr. and Jeffrey E. Eberwein were elected as directors of the Company by the board of directors and later by stockholders at our 2013 Annual meeting. In May 2013, Robert C. Sims, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, ceased to be an officer or employee of the Company, and our board of directors appointed Richard K. Coleman, Jr., as our President and Chief Executive Officer, to serve on an interim basis, and in November 2013 appointed Mr. Coleman as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Also in May 2013, Elliott Brackett resigned from our board of directors. An additional member of our board was elected at our 2013 annual meeting, such that, on the date of our annual meeting, only one member of four-person board of directors was a director prior to April 2013. We cannot be certain that the changes in management and our board of directors will not lead to additional instability, lead to additional management departures or changes, affect our ability to hire or retain key personnel, affect the willingness of our current customers to continue to use our products or for new customers to purchase them, or otherwise negatively affect our business. Our system of internal controls may be inadequate. We maintain a system of internal controls in order to ensure we are able to collect, process, summarize, and disclose the information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time periods specified. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Due to these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Additionally, public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or fail to perform as anticipated, errors could occur that would not be detected, which could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements, result in an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or require us to take other actions that will divert significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and/or other government enforcement actions. Furthermore, the price of our stock could be adversely affected and our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. 19 We do not presently intend to pay any cash dividends on or repurchase any shares of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and our other financing arrangements. We do not presently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. The convertible preferred stock has the right to receive dividends that accrue at a rate of 5.00% annually, are payable on June 30 and December 31 of each year, and are payable, at our option, in cash or common stock with reference to the volume-weighted-average price of our common stock on its principle trading market. Any payment of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Cash dividend payments in the future may only be made out of legally available funds and, if we experience substantial losses, such funds may not be available. In addition, our Credit Agreement with Fortress prohibits us from paying dividends, making distributions or payments or redeeming, retiring or purchasing any of our capital stock and our shares of convertible preferred stock have dividend rights that rank senior to our common stock and include a covenant limiting our ability to pay dividends while at least 20% of the currently issued convertible preferred stock is outstanding. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. The convertible preferred stock and warrants issued in our March 2013 private placement and the Fortress Transactions include anti-dilution protection and other provisions that could substantially dilute our common stockholders, reduce our stockholders’ equity, decrease the value of our common stock and inhibit our ability to raise capital on favorable terms. The 4,231,154 million shares of convertible preferred stock outstanding and warrants to purchase 2,282,754 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share that were issued in our March 2013 private placement, as well as the warrants to purchase 1,454,545 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.0625 per share issued to Fortress in July 2013, have anti-dilution protection that could substantially increase the number of shares of common stock that may be issued upon the conversion of the convertible preferred stock and reduce the proceeds received by us upon the exercise of the warrants. If these anti-dilution provisions are triggered, as described below, our common stockholders could be substantially diluted and the value of our common stock could decline. Our convertible preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock issued in the March 2013 private placement and the Fortress Transactions contain what is commonly known as a “full-ratchet” anti-dilution provision. Subject to certain exclusions specified in the Certificate of Designation governing our preferred stock, which is filed as an exhibit with the Securities and Exchange Commission, if at any time prior to March 28, 2014, we issue or are deemed to issue any additional shares of common stock at a lower per-share price than the per-share conversion price of the convertible preferred stock, initially $2.0625 per share, then the applicable per-share conversion price of the convertible preferred stock will be automatically reduced to the lower per-share price for such subsequent issuance or deemed issuance of common stock regardless of the number of shares issued in such subsequent issuance or deemed issuance. Similarly, if at any time prior to March 28, 2014, we issue or are deemed to issue any additional shares of common stock at a lower per-share price than the applicable per-share exercise price of the warrants issued in the March 2013 private placement, then the per-share exercise price of the warrants, initially $2.00 per share, will be automatically reduced to the per-share price of such subsequent issuance or deemed issuance of common stock. Subject to stockholder approval, if at any time prior to July 22, 2014, we issue or are deemed to issue any additional shares of common stock at a lower per-share price than the applicable per-share exercise price of the warrants issued to Fortress, then the per-share exercise price of the Fortress warrants, initially $2.0625 per share, will be automatically reduced to the per-share price of such subsequent issuance or deemed issuance of common stock. The “full-ratchet” anti-dilution adjustment provisions will expire on the earlier of (1) March 28, 2014, in the case of the March 2013 warrants, and July 22, 2014, in the case of the Fortress warrants, or (2) the date we file a report on Form 10-K or 10-Q reporting a positive earnings per share for the preceding quarter. This “full ratchet” anti-dilution adjustment essentially has no lower limit and can be triggered by the issuance of even one non-exempt share. 20 In addition, the full-ratchet anti-dilution provision in our convertible preferred stock results in its reclassification outside of permanent stockholders’ equity for the year ended October 31, 2013 until such provision expires. The classification of the convertible preferred stock outside of permanent stockholders’ equity reduces our stockholders’ equity, which may cause the value of our common stock to decline. In addition to potentially diluting our common stockholders, the existence of these anti-dilution provisions may inhibit our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all while such provisions are in effect, as potential investors may be deterred by the possibility of their investment being immediately diluted by these provisions. Our convertible preferred stock contains covenants that may limit our business flexibility. Our convertible preferred stock contains covenants preventing us from taking certain actions without the approval of the holders of a majority or a super-majority of the convertible preferred stock, depending on the action as described below. The need to obtain the approval of holders of our convertible preferred stock before taking these actions could impede our ability to take certain actions that management or our board of directors may consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. For as long as at least 20% of the shares of our convertible preferred stock issued in our March 2013 private placement are outstanding, we may not take any of the following actions, among others, without first obtaining the approval of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of convertible preferred stock then outstanding: · create a new class or series of equity securities or any other security convertible into equity securities ranking senior or pari passu to the convertible preferred stock with respect to voting, dividends, or liquidation rights; ⋅ amend, alter, or repeal any of our governing documents in a manner materially adverse to our convertible preferred stock; · declare or pay a dividend or distribution on any securities, including our common stock, prior to the payment of the dividends required to be paid to holders of our convertible preferred stock; or ⋅ repurchase or otherwise acquire more than a de minimis number of shares of any class of securities junior to the convertible preferred stock (which includes our common stock), except with respect to (1) shares of common stock issued upon the conversion of shares of our convertible preferred stock or the exercise of warrants issued in our March 2013 private placement, or (2) repurchases of certain securities held by our departing officers and directors up to an aggregate maximum of $100,000. For as long as at least 20% of the shares of our convertible preferred stock issued in our March 2013 private placement are outstanding, we also may not take any of the following actions, among others, without first obtaining the approval of the holders of at least 70% of the shares of convertible preferred stock then outstanding: · sell (outside the ordinary course) or hypothecate any of our current or future assets (other than for hypothecations pursuant to and consistent with our existing working capital arrangements); or ⋅ incur any new debt (including redeemable preferred stock), other than pursuant to our existing working capital relationship and trade debt incurred in the ordinary course of business; provided, however, that the foregoing restrictions will not apply to: · any assignment, conveyance, disposition, encumbrance, hypothecation, pledge, lease, sale, transfer or other disposition our intellectual property that (1) generates net proceeds of at least $3 million and (2) does not cause a material adverse effect on us or our current and anticipated operations including our StrongBox line of products, and ⋅ license arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business. We cannot assure you that the holders of our convertible preferred stock would approve any such restricted action, even where we believe such an action would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Any failure to obtain such approval could limit our business flexibility, harm our business and result in a decrease in the value of our common stock or convertible preferred stock. 21 We do not have cumulative voting and a small number of existing shareholders control our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of shareholder votes. Our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative votes in the election of our directors. Cumulative voting, in some cases, could allow a minority group to elect at least one director to our board. Because there is no provision for cumulative voting, a minority group will not be able to elect any directors. Accordingly, the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock, present in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. Our executive officers and directors, together with our largest shareholders, beneficially own approximately 18.9% of our common stock as of January 20, 2014. As a result, these persons may be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. From time to time we may make acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future. We may also make significant investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions or significant investments, it could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks that we may face in our efforts to integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others: · failure to realize anticipated savings and benefits from the acquisition; ⋅ difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees; · potential incompatibility of business cultures; ⋅ coordinating geographically separate organizations; · diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; ⋅ coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid and efficient manner; · the potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; ⋅ failure of acquired technology or products to provide anticipated revenue or margin contribution; · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; ⋅ costs and delays in implementing or integrating common systems and procedures; · reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; ⋅ impairment of existing customer, supplier and strategic relationships of either company; · insufficient cash flows from operations to fund the working capital and investment requirements; ⋅ difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; · the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become impaired or we may incur losses from these investments; ⋅ dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company; · the assumption of risks of the acquired company that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation; ⋅ the cost associated with the acquisition; and · assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated adverse events or circumstances. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. For example, in 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, as we continue to review and monitor this new law and its associated regulations, we expect to incur additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. As a public company that is subject to these rules and regulations, we may find that it is more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors and qualified executive officers. We are subject to risks related to the provision of employee health care benefits and recent health care reform legislation. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act was passed and signed into law. Provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years, and many of the regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation have not been implemented. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. Our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected due to this health reform legislation. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: · the rights of the holders of our convertible preferred stock to elect up to two directors; ⋅ the rights of the holders of our convertible preferred stock to approve certain transactions and corporate actions; · no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; ⋅ the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; · the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; ⋅ a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; · the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and ⋅ advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 