Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks we do not yet know of or we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The following risks should be considered, together with all of the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, before deciding to invest in our securities. Factors Related to Our Business The FDA placed one of our drug candidates, IDX184 on partial clinical hold and our business may be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to pursue development of IDX184 or if we are significantly delayed in developing IDX184. Our primary research and development focus is the treatment of patients with HCV. Our most advanced compound under development is IDX184, a nucleotide polymerase inhibitor. Our other drug candidates for the treatment of HCV are in preclinical and early clinical stages of development. In the third quarter of 2010, we completed a dose-ranging phase IIa trial evaluating IDX184 in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Following a 14-day drug-drug interaction study of a combination of IDX184 and IDX320 in healthy volunteers. in September 2010, the FDA placed IDX184 and IDX320 on clinical hold due to three serious adverse events of elevated liver function tests that were detected during post drug exposure safety visits. We believe the hepatotoxicity observed in this drug-drug interaction study was caused by IDX320 and therefore discontinued the clinical development of this drug candidate. In February 2011, the full clinical hold on IDX184 was removed. The program was placed on partial clinical hold, which allows us to initiate a phase IIb 12-week clinical trial of IDX184 in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin with safety evaluations of the patients that will be shared with the FDA at certain intervals in the trial. We anticipate initiating this clinical trial in the second half of 2011. If we are not able to continue development of IDX184, or if our progress in development of IDX184 is slowed significantly, our business may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our product candidates may exhibit undesirable side effects when used alone or in combination with other approved pharmaceutical products or investigational agents, which may delay or preclude their further development or regulatory approval, or limit their use if approved. Throughout the drug development process, we must continually demonstrate the safety and tolerability of our product candidates in order to obtain regulatory approval to advance their clinical development or to market them. Even if our product candidates demonstrate biologic activity and clinical efficacy, any unacceptable adverse side effects or toxicities, when administered alone or in the presence of other pharmaceutical products or investigational agents, which can arise at any stage of development, may outweigh their potential benefit. For instance, in September 2010, two of our drug candidates, IDX184 and IDX320, were placed on clinical hold by the FDA due to three serious adverse events of elevated liver function tests that were detected during post drug exposure safety visits following a 14-day drug-drug interaction study of a combination of IDX184 and IDX320 in healthy volunteers. In future preclinical studies and clinical trials our product candidates may demonstrate unacceptable safety profiles or unacceptable drug-drug interactions, which could result in the delay or termination of their development, prevent regulatory approval or limit their market acceptance if they are ultimately approved. We have a limited operating history and have incurred a cumulative loss since inception. If we do not generate significant revenues, we will not be profitable. We have incurred significant losses each year since our inception in May 1998. Telbivudine (Tyzeka®/Sebivo®), our only product to reach commercialization, is marketed by Novartis, and we receive royalty payments associated with sales of this product. We have generated limited revenue from the sales of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® to date. Due to our limited Tyzeka®/Sebivo® sales history, there is risk in determining the potential future revenue associated with potential sales of this product or any other product that reaches commercialization. We will not be able to generate additional revenues from other product sales until we successfully complete clinical development and receive regulatory approval for one of our other drug candidates, and we or a collaboration partner successfully introduce such product commercially. We expect to incur annual operating losses over the next several years as we continue to expand our drug discovery and development efforts. We also expect that the net loss we will incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and such fluctuations may be substantial. To generate product revenue, regulatory approval for products we successfully develop must be obtained and we and/or one of our existing or future collaboration partners must effectively manufacture, market and sell such products. Even if we successfully commercialize drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, we may not be able to realize revenues at a level that would allow us to achieve or sustain profitability. Accordingly, we may never generate significant revenue and, even if we do generate significant revenue, we may never achieve profitability. We will need additional capital to fund our operations, including the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of our drug candidates. If we do not have or cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be unable to develop and ultimately commercialize our drug candidates successfully. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $46.1 million at December 31, 2010. We believe that in addition to this balance the anticipated royalty payments associated with product sales of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and our ability and intent to manage expenditures will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for at least the next 12 months from December 31, 2010. Our drug development programs and the potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial cash to fund expenses that we will incur in connection with preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory review and future manufacturing and sales and marketing efforts. Our need for additional funding will depend in part on whether: • with respect to ‘761, GSK is able to continue clinical development of this drug candidate, following the clinical hold imposed by the FDA in February 2011, such that we receive certain clinical development milestone payments within the next 24 months; • with respect to our other drug candidates, Novartis exercises its option to license any such drug candidates, and we receive related license fees, milestone payments and development expense reimbursement payments from Novartis; with respect to any of our drug candidates not licensed by Novartis, we receive related license fees, milestone payments and development expense reimbursement payments from third-parties; • with respect to Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, whether the level of royalty payments received from Novartis is significant; and • the terms of a development and commercialization agreement, if any, that we enter into with respect to our drug candidate, IDX184, for the treatment of HCV. We are currently seeking a partner who will assist in the future development and commercialization of IDX184. Our efforts to find a partner may be slowed because the FDA has placed this drug candidate on partial clinical hold as a result of serious adverse events related to elevated liver function tests that were detected during post drug exposure safety visits following a 14-day drug-drug interaction study of a combination of IDX184 and IDX320 in healthy volunteers. In addition, although Novartis has agreed to pay for certain development expenses incurred under development plans it approves for products and drug candidates that it has licensed from us, Novartis has the right to terminate its license and the related funding obligations with respect to any such product or drug candidate by providing us with six months written notice. Furthermore, GSK has the right to terminate the GSK license agreement by providing us with 90 days written notice. 20 Table of Contents Our future capital needs will also depend generally on many other factors, including: • the amount of revenue that we may be able to realize from commercialization and sale of drug candidates, if any, which are approved by regulatory authorities; • the scope and results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the progress of our current preclinical and clinical development programs for HCV; • the cost of obtaining, maintaining and defending patents on our drug candidates and our processes; • the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; • any costs associated with changes in rules and regulations promulgated by the FDA related to the drug development process and/or clinical trials; • the commercial potential of our drug candidates; • the rate of technological advances in our markets; • the cost of acquiring or in-licensing new discovery compounds, technologies, drug candidates or other business assets; • the magnitude of our general and administrative expenses; • any costs related to litigation in which we may be involved or related to any claims made against us; • any costs we may incur under current and future licensing arrangements; and • the costs of commercializing and launching other products, if any, which are successfully developed and approved for commercial sale by regulatory authorities. We expect that we will incur significant costs to complete the clinical trials and other studies required to enable us to submit regulatory applications with the FDA and/or the EMEA for our drug candidates as we continue development of each of our drug candidates. The time and cost to complete clinical development of our drug candidates may vary as a result of a number of factors. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings and collaborative, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements. Such additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. Moreover, any financing requiring the issuance of additional shares of capital stock must first be approved by Novartis so long as Novartis continues to own at least 19.4% of our voting stock. In May 2009, we received approval from Novartis to issue additional shares pursuant to a financing under our existing shelf registration so long as the issuance of additional shares did not reduce Novartis’ interest in Idenix below 43%. As of February 15, 2011, Novartis owned approximately 43% of our outstanding common stock. If we raise additional capital through the sale of our common stock, existing stockholders, other than Novartis, which has the right to maintain a certain level of ownership, will experience dilution of their current level of ownership of our common stock and the terms of the financing may adversely affect the holdings or rights of our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we could be required to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs or to enter into new collaborative, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements that may not be favorable to us. More generally, if we are unable to obtain adequate funding, we may be required to scale back, suspend or terminate our business operations. Our research and development efforts may not result in additional drug candidates being discovered on anticipated timelines, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. Some of our research and development programs are at preclinical stages. Additional drug candidates that we may develop or acquire will require significant research, development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory approval and commitment of resources before any commercialization may occur. We cannot predict whether our research will lead to the discovery of any additional drug candidates that could generate revenues for us. Our failure to successfully acquire or develop and market additional drug candidates or approved drugs would impair our ability to grow. As part of our strategy, we intend to establish a franchise in the HCV market by developing multiple drug candidates for this therapeutic indication. The success of this strategy depends upon the development and commercialization of additional drug candidates that we successfully discover, license or otherwise acquire. In September 2010, the FDA placed two of our HCV drug candidates, IDX184 and IDX320, on clinical hold. The hold was imposed due to three serious adverse events of elevated liver function tests that were detected during post drug exposure safety visits following a 14-day drug-drug interaction study of a combination of IDX184 and IDX320 in healthy volunteers. We believe the hepatotoxicity observed in this drug-drug interaction study was caused by IDX320 and therefore discontinued the clinical development of this drug candidate. In February 2011, the full clinical hold on IDX184 was removed by the FDA and the program was placed on partial clinical hold. 21 Table of Contents Drug candidates we discover, license or acquire will require additional and likely substantial development, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure which are inherent in pharmaceutical drug development, including the possibility that the drug candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Proposing, negotiating and implementing acquisition or in-license of drug candidates may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of drug candidates. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional drug candidates on terms that we find acceptable. Our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the volatility in the United States credit markets. As of December 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents were invested in government agency and treasury money market instruments. Our investment policy seeks to manage these assets to achieve our goals of preserving principal and maintaining adequate liquidity. The distress in the financial markets over the past two years has caused previously held investments to become less liquid and decline in value. To mitigate the risk presented by holding illiquid securities, beginning in 2008, we shifted our investments to instruments that carry less exposure to market volatility and liquidity pressures. Should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. In addition, general credit, liquidity, market and interest risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The commercial markets which we intend to enter are subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. We are engaged in segments of the pharmaceutical industry that are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are commercializing or pursuing the development of products that target viral diseases, including the same diseases we are targeting. We face intense competition from existing products and we expect to face increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. For the treatment of HBV, we are aware of six other drug products, specifically, lamivudine, entecavir, adefovir dipivoxil, tenofovir, pegylated interferon and interferon alpha, which are approved by the FDA and commercially available in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions. Five of these products have preceded Tyzeka®/Sebivo® into the marketplace and have gained acceptance with physicians and patients. For HCV, the current treatment is pegylated interferon in combination with ribavirin, a nucleoside analog. Two drug products, telaprevir and boceprevir, have been submitted for NDAs and could be approved for the treatment of HCV in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin in the coming year. Currently, there are approximately 25 antiviral therapies approved for commercial sale in the United States for the treatment of HIV. We believe that a significant number of drug candidates that are currently under development may become available in the future for the treatment of HBV, HCV and HIV. Our competitors’ products may be more effective, have fewer side effects, have lower costs or be better marketed and sold than any of our products. Additionally, products that our competitors successfully develop for the treatment of HCV and HIV may be marketed prior to any HCV or HIV product we or our collaboration partners successfully develop. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products; • more extensive experience in conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • products that have been approved or drug candidates that are in late-stage development; and • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Novartis and GSK have the right to market and sell products that compete with the drug candidates and products that we license to them and any competition by Novartis or GSK could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of vaccines for the diseases we are targeting could render our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. 22 Table of Contents With respect to Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we may successfully develop and obtain approval to commercialize, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective or more affordable products or obtain more effective patent protection than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. If we are not able to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel and advisors, we may not successfully develop our drug candidates or achieve our other business objectives. The growth of our business and our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management and research and development personnel. Our key personnel include our senior officers, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management team may significantly delay or prevent our discovery of additional drug candidates, the development of our drug candidates and achievement of our other business objectives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors is critical to our success. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental entities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain these individuals and our failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain or maintain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Product liability claims could result in a recall of products or a change in the therapeutic indications for which such products may be used. In addition, product liability claims may distract our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages, which could prevent or interfere with commercialization efforts and could adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature would also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the marketplace. For Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, product liability claims could be made against us based on the use of our product prior to October 1, 2007, at which time we transferred to Novartis our worldwide development, commercialization and manufacturing rights and obligations related to Tyzeka®/Sebivo® in exchange for royalty payments equal to a percentage of net sales. For Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and our drug candidates, product liability claims could be made against us based on the use of our drug candidates in clinical trials. We have obtained product liability insurance for Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and maintain clinical trial insurance for our drug candidates in development. Such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. In addition, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain or increase current amounts of product liability and clinical trial insurance coverage, obtain product liability insurance for other products, if any, that we seek to commercialize, obtain additional clinical trial insurance or obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our products or conduct the clinical trials necessary to develop our drug candidates. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage may require us to pay substantial amounts in damages. This could adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. We currently maintain general liability, property, workers’ compensation, products liability, directors’ and officers’ and employment practices insurance policies. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance with adequate levels of coverage. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. If the estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be no assurance, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will not change. 23 Table of Contents One of these estimates is our estimate of the development period over which we amortize non-refundable payments from Novartis, which we review on a quarterly basis. In the second quarter of 2010, we adjusted the period over which we amortize the deferred payments to be through May 2021 based on current judgments related to the product development timeline of our licensed drug candidates. When the estimated development period changes, we adjust periodic revenue that is being recognized and record the remaining unrecognized non-refundable payments over the remaining development period during which our performance obligations are completed. Significant judgments and estimates are involved in determining the estimated development period and different assumptions could yield materially different financial results. This, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. If we fail to design and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report in Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s registered independent public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have completed an assessment and will continue to review in the future our internal controls over financial reporting in an effort to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements. The manner by which companies implement, maintain and enhance these requirements including internal control reforms, if any, to comply with Section 404, and how registered independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies’ internal controls, is subject to change and will evolve over time. As a result, notwithstanding our efforts, it is possible that either our management or our registered independent public accounting firm may in the future determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. A determination that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our stock, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, including Western Europe, in particular; • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • unfavorable labor regulations applicable to our European or other international operations; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • the need to ensure compliance with the numerous regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business in each of these jurisdictions and to maintain an effective compliance program to ensure compliance. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American, European and Asian economies. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession. We may be required to relocate one of our principal research facilities, which could interrupt our business activities and result in significant expense. We have been involved in a dispute with the City of Cambridge, Massachusetts and its License Commission pertaining to the level of noise emitted from certain rooftop equipment at our research facility located at 60 Hampshire Street in Cambridge. The License Commission has claimed that we are in violation of the local noise ordinance pertaining to sound emissions, based on a complaint from neighbors living adjacent to the property. We have contested this alleged violation before the License Commission, as well as the Middlesex County, Massachusetts, Superior Court. In July 2010, the License Commission granted us a special variance from the requirements of the local noise ordinance for a period of one-year, effective as of July 1, 2010. We may, however, be required to cease certain activities at the building if: a) the noise emitted from certain rooftop equipment at our research facility exceeds the levels permitted by the special variance; b) the parties are unable to resolve this matter through negotiations and remedial action; or c) our legal challenge to the position of the City of Cambridge and the License Commission is unsuccessful. In any such event, we could be required to relocate to another facility which could interrupt some of our business activities and could be time consuming and costly. 24 Table of Contents Factors Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates All of our drug candidates are in development. Our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to develop our drug candidates, we will not be successful. To date, we have limited experience marketing, distributing and selling any products. The success of our business depends primarily upon Novartis’ ability to commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, GSK’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize our NNRTI compounds, including IDX899, and our ability, or that of any future collaboration partner, to successfully commercialize other products we may successfully develop. We received approval from the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2006 to market and sell Tyzeka® for the treatment of HBV in the United States. In April 2007, Sebivo® was approved in the European Union for the treatment of patients with HBV. Effective October 1, 2007, we transferred to Novartis our worldwide development, commercialization and manufacturing rights and obligations related to telbivudine (Tyzeka®/Sebivo®) in exchange for royalty payments equal to a percentage of net sales. The royalty percentage varies based on the specified territory and the aggregate dollar amount of net sales. In February 2009, we entered into the GSK license agreement whereby GSK is solely responsible for the worldwide development, manufacture and commercialization of our NNRTI compounds, including IDX899, now known as ‘761, for the treatment of human diseases, including HIV/AIDS. In February 2011, GSK informed us that the FDA placed ‘761 on clinical hold. GSK has full responsibility for the development of ‘761, including any regulatory interactions. If GSK is unable to successfully develop ‘761 or any other compound licensed to it, we will not receive additional milestone or royalty payments from GSK. Our other drug candidates are in various earlier stages of development. All of our drug candidates require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Approval by regulatory authorities requires, among other things, that our drug candidates satisfy rigorous standards of safety, including efficacy and assessments of the toxicity and carcinogenicity of the drug candidates we are developing. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy testing. Notwithstanding the efforts to satisfy these regulatory standards, our drug candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other improvements over existing drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or • be successfully commercialized. Commercial availability of our drug candidates is dependent upon successful clinical development and receipt of requisite regulatory approvals. Clinical data often are susceptible to varying interpretations. Many companies that have believed that their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials in terms of both safety and efficacy have nonetheless failed to obtain approval for such drug candidates. Furthermore, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may request additional information including data from additional clinical trials, which may significantly delay any approval and these regulatory agencies ultimately may not grant marketing approval for any of our drug candidates. For example, in September 2010, the FDA placed on clinical hold two of our HCV drug candidates, IDX184 and IDX320. The hold was imposed due to three serious adverse events of elevated liver function tests that were detected during post drug exposure safety visits following a 14-day drug-drug interaction study of a combination of IDX184 and IDX320 in healthy volunteers. We believe the hepatotoxicity observed in this drug-drug interaction study was caused by IDX320 and therefore discontinued the clinical development of this drug candidate. In February 2011, the full clinical hold on IDX184 was removed. The program was placed on partial clinical hold, which allows us to initiate a phase IIb 12-week clinical trial of IDX184 in combination with Peg-IFN/RBV with safety evaluations of the patients that will be shared with the FDA at certain intervals in the trial. If our clinical trials are not successful, we will not obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our drug candidates. To obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our drug candidates, we will be required to demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that our drug candidates are safe and effective. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive and the historical rate of failure for drug candidates is high. The results from preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. 25 Table of Contents We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may prohibit the initiation or suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the persons participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. The observation of adverse side effects in a clinical trial may result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Additionally, adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our drug candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs, significantly delay the submission of applications seeking marketing approval for such drug candidates, result in a narrower indication than was originally sought or result in a decision to discontinue development of such drug candidates. Even if we successfully complete our clinical trials with respect to our drug candidates, we may not receive regulatory approval for such candidate. Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial and other clinical trials evaluating other investigational agents for the same or similar uses, which may compete with us for patient enrollment. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. We cannot predict whether we will encounter additional problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend our clinical trials, delay or suspend patient enrollment into our clinical trials or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Delays in the development of our drug candidates would delay our ability to seek and potentially obtain regulatory approvals, increase expenses associated with clinical development and likely increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Any of the following could suspend, terminate or delay the completion of our ongoing, or the initiation of our planned, clinical trials: • discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, required approvals from, or suspensions or termination by, institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling participants into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention of participants in clinical trials; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • serious or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or • negative results of clinical trials. If the results of our ongoing or planned clinical trials for our drug candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials: • we may be unable to commence human clinical trials of any drug candidates; • GSK may be unable to continue human clinical trials of ‘761 or commence human clinical trials of any other licensed compound due to the clinical hold imposed by the FDA on ‘761 in February 2011; • Novartis may choose not to license our drug candidates and we may not be able to enter into other collaborative arrangements for any of our other drug candidates; or • we may not have the financial resources to continue the research and development of our drug candidates. If our drug candidates fail to obtain United States and/or foreign regulatory approval, we and our partners will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. Each of our drug candidates is subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions prior to the commercial sale of any drug candidates. Before any drug candidate can be approved for sale, we, or GSK, in the case of an NNRTI, including ‘761, or other collaboration partners, must demonstrate that it can be manufactured in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP requirements. In addition, facilities where the principal commercial supply of a product is to be manufactured must pass FDA inspection prior to approval. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug candidates we are currently developing, or have licensed to GSK to develop, will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to permit commercial distribution. 26 Table of Contents The time required for FDA review and other approvals is uncertain and typically takes a number of years, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Analysis of data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We or one of our partners may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action, changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability or that of a partner to generate revenues from a particular drug candidate. For example, in September 2010, the FDA placed a clinical hold on IDX184 and IDX320, two of our drug candidates for the treatment of HCV. We discontinued the clinical development of IDX320 and in February 2011, the full clinical hold on IDX184 was removed by the FDA and the program was placed on partial clinical hold. In February 2011, GSK informed us that the FDA placed ‘761 on clinical hold and we do not know whether or when the FDA will allow GSK to continue development of ‘761. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we or a partner may market the product. These restrictions may limit the size of the market for the product. Additionally, drug candidates we or our partners successfully develop could be subject to post market surveillance and testing. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, and we, with our partners, are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements relating to manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by any one regulatory authority does not assure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Many foreign regulatory authorities, including those in the European Union and in China, have different approval procedures than those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. Any failure or delay in obtaining such marketing authorizations for our drug candidates would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review even after approval to market such products is obtained. If we or our partners fail to comply with applicable United States and foreign regulations, we or our partners could lose approvals that we or our partners have been granted and our business would be seriously harmed. Even after approval, any drug product that we or our collaboration partners successfully develop will remain subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results, which are reported after our product becomes commercially available. The marketing claims we or our collaboration partners are permitted to make in labeling or advertising regarding our marketed drugs in the United States will be limited to those specified in any FDA approval, and in other markets such as the European Union, to the corresponding regulatory approvals. Any manufacturer we or our collaboration partners use to make approved products will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA or other similar regulatory authorities in the European Union and other jurisdictions. We and our collaboration partners are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with our products and make other periodic reports to the FDA or other similar regulatory authorities in the European Union and other jurisdictions. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. We do not have, and currently do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material at commercial scale or for our clinical trials. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on such manufacturers for regulatory compliance. Certain changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require prior approval from regulatory authorities before the modified product may be marketed. If we or our collaboration partners fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaboration partners may be subject to civil penalties, suspension or withdrawal of any regulatory approval obtained, product recalls and seizures, injunctions, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions and penalties. If we or our partners fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements after receipt of approval to commercialize a product, we or our partners may be subject to significant sanctions imposed by the FDA, EMEA or other United States and foreign regulatory authorities. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug candidates and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with these requirements may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These enforcement actions may include, without limitation: • warning letters and other regulatory authority communications objecting to matters such as promotional materials and requiring corrective action such as revised communications to healthcare practitioners; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; and • FDA refusal to review or approve pending new drug applications or supplements to new drug applications for previously approved products and/or similar rejections of marketing applications or supplements by foreign regulatory authorities. 27 Table of Contents The imposition of one or more of these sanctions on us or one of our partners could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials and environmental liability insurance to cover us for costs associated with environmental or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Additional federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these laws or regulations. Additionally, we may incur substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Growing availability of specialty pharmaceuticals may lead to increased focus of cost containment. Specialty pharmaceuticals refer to medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as certain types of cancer, multiple sclerosis, HBV, HCV and HIV. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant payer interest in developing cost containment strategies targeted to this sector. While the impact on our payers’ efforts to control access and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future. Factors Related to Our Relationship with Novartis Novartis has substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of February 15, 2011, Novartis owned approximately 43% of our outstanding common stock. For so long as Novartis owns 19.4% of our voting stock, Novartis has the ability to delay or prevent a change in control of Idenix that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval including: • the election of our directors; • any amendment of our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated by-laws; • the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or • the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit our other stockholders. 28 Table of Contents Novartis has the right to exercise control over certain corporate actions, strategic direction, our research and development focus and other material decisions that may not otherwise require stockholder approval as long as it holds at least 19.4% of our voting stock. As long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 19.4% of our voting stock, which we define below, we cannot take certain actions without the consent of Novartis. These actions include: • the authorization or issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or the capital stock of our subsidiaries, except for a limited number of specified issuances; • any change or modification to the structure of our board of directors or a similar governing body of any of our subsidiaries; • any amendment or modification to any of our organizational documents or those of our subsidiaries; • the adoption of a three-year strategic plan; • the adoption of an annual operating plan and budget, if there is no approved strategic plan; • any decision that would result in a variance of total annual expenditures, capital or expense, in excess of 20% from the approved three-year strategic plan; • any decision that would result in a variance in excess of the greater of $10.0 million or 20% of our profit or loss target in the strategic plan or annual operating plan; • the acquisition of stock or assets of another entity that exceeds 10% of our consolidated net revenue, net income or net assets; • the sale, lease, license or other disposition of any assets or business which exceeds 10% of our net revenue, net income or net assets; • the incurrence of any indebtedness by us or our subsidiaries for borrowed money in excess of $2.0 million; • any material change in the nature of our business or that of any of our subsidiaries; • any change in control of Idenix or any subsidiary; and • any dissolution or liquidation of Idenix or any subsidiary, or the commencement by us or any subsidiary of any action under applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or liquidation laws. Pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders’ agreement, dated July 27, 2004, among us, Novartis and certain of our stockholders, we are obligated to use our reasonable best efforts to nominate for election as directors at least two designees of Novartis for so long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 35% of our voting stock and at least one designee of Novartis for so long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 19.4% of our voting stock. In June 2009, we elected a third representative from Novartis to our board of directors. This election was not required by or subject to the stockholders’ agreement. We currently have two Novartis designees on our board of directors as a result of one designee resigning from Novartis and therefore from our board in August 2010. Under the stockholders’ agreement, “voting stock” means our outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors, but does not include securities issued in connection with our acquisition of all of the capital stock, or all or substantially all of the assets of another entity, and shares of common stock issued upon exercise of stock options or stock awards pursuant to compensation and equity incentive plans. Notwithstanding the foregoing, voting stock includes up to approximately 1.4 million shares that were reserved as of May 8, 2003 for issuance under our 1998 equity incentive plan. In January 2009, we amended the development and commercialization agreement to provide that Novartis retains the exclusive option to obtain rights to drug candidates developed by us, or in some cases licensed to us, so long as Novartis maintains ownership of 40% of our common stock, rather than ownership of 51% of our common stock, as was the requirement prior to the execution of this amendment. Additionally, in January 2009, we amended an agreement with Novartis providing that so long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 40% of our common stock, Novartis’ consent is required for the selection and appointment of our chief financial officer. Prior to this amendment, the ownership requirement was 51%. If in Novartis’ reasonable judgment our chief financial officer is not satisfactorily performing his or her duties, we are required to terminate his or her employment. Furthermore, under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, dated as of March 21, 2003, among us, Novartis and substantially all of our then existing stockholders, Novartis is required to make future contingent payments of up to $357.0 million to these stockholders if we achieve predetermined development milestones with respect to specific HCV drug candidates. As a result, in making determinations as to our annual operating plan and budget for the development of our drug candidates, the interests of Novartis may be different than the interests of our other stockholders and Novartis could exercise its approval rights in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents We currently depend on Novartis for a significant portion of our revenues, for the continuing commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®and for support in the development of drug candidates Novartis could license from us in the future. If our development and commercialization agreement with Novartis terminates, our business, in particular, the development of our drug candidates and the commercialization of any products that we successfully develop could be harmed. In May 2003, we received a $75.0 million license fee from Novartis in connection with the license of our then HBV drug candidates, telbivudine and valtorcitabine. In April 2007, we received a $10.0 million milestone payment for regulatory approval of Sebivo® in China and in June 2007, we received an additional $10.0 million milestone payment for regulatory approval of Sebivo® in the European Union. Pursuant to the development and commercialization agreement, as amended, Novartis also acquired options to license valopicitabine and additional drug candidates from us. In March 2006, Novartis exercised its option and acquired a license to valopicitabine. As a result, we received a $25.0 million license fee and the right to receive up to an additional $45.0 million in license fee payments upon advancement of a specified HCV drug candidate into phase III clinical trials. Assuming we successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates licensed by Novartis, under the terms of the development and commercialization agreement, we are entitled to receive reimbursement of expenses we incur in connection with the development of these drug candidates and additional milestone payments from Novartis. Additionally, if any of the drug candidates we have licensed to Novartis are approved for commercialization, we anticipate receiving proceeds in connection with the sales of such products. If Novartis exercises the option to license other drug candidates that we discover, or in some cases, acquire, we are entitled to receive license fees and milestone payments as well as reimbursement of expenses we incur in the development of such drug candidates in accordance with development plans mutually agreed with Novartis. Under the existing terms of the development and commercialization agreement, we have the right to co-promote and co-market with Novartis in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France and Spain any products licensed by Novartis, excluding Tyzeka®/Sebivo®. For Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, we acted as the lead commercial party in the United States. Effective on October 1, 2007, we transferred to Novartis our worldwide development, commercialization and manufacturing rights and obligations related to telbivudine (Tyzeka®/Sebivo®). We receive royalty payments equal to a percentage of net sales of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, with such percentage increasing according to specified tiers of net sales. The royalty percentage varies based on the specified territory and the aggregate dollar amount of net sales. Novartis may terminate the development and commercialization agreement in any country or with respect to any product or drug candidate licensed under the development and commercialization agreement for any reason with six months written notice. If the development and commercialization agreement is terminated in whole or in part and we are unable to enter similar arrangements with other collaborators or partners, our business would be materially adversely affected. Novartis has the option to license from us drug candidates we discover or, in some cases, acquire. If Novartis does not exercise its option or disputes the adequacy of the notice provided by us pertaining to the drug candidate, or after we provide notice, delays its decision to exercise such option with respect to a drug candidate, our development, manufacture and/or commercialization of such drug candidate may be substantially delayed or limited. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional funding. In addition to its license of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine, Novartis has the option under the development and commercialization agreement to license our other drug candidates. Furthermore, under the development and commercialization agreement, we must provide Novartis with notice and a data package as part of Novartis’ consideration to license a drug candidate from us. This notice includes information regarding the efficacy, safety and such other related material information from the final data set for the relevant clinical trial for the drug candidate, as well as a proposed development plan and proposed licensing terms. The development and commercialization agreement is not specific as to the exact content of the information required in such notice. If Novartis disputes the adequacy of the notice or data package, Novartis may argue that it is entitled to additional information or data, which would likely lead to a delay in its review of our drug candidate. Potential disputes over the adequacy of the notice and data package we provide Novartis may cause delays in our development programs in order to resolve any disputes with Novartis over the adequacy of such material. This could require substantial financial resources and could take a significant amount of time to complete. If Novartis elects not to exercise such option, we may be required to seek other collaboration arrangements to provide funds necessary to enable us to develop such drug candidates. In October 2009, Novartis waived its option to license IDX184. As a result, we retain the worldwide rights to develop, manufacture, commercialize and license IDX184. We are currently seeking a partner who will assist in the future development and commercialization of this drug candidate. We may not be successful in our efforts to enter into a collaboration arrangement with respect to a drug candidate not licensed by Novartis and we may not have sufficient funds to develop such drug candidate internally. As a result, our business would be adversely affected. In addition, the negotiation of a collaborative agreement is time consuming and could, even if successful, delay the development, manufacture and/or commercialization of a drug candidate and the terms of the collaboration agreements may not be favorable to us. 30 Table of Contents If we breach any of the numerous representations and warranties we made to Novartis under the development and commercialization agreement or the stock purchase agreement, Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us for damages it suffers as a result of such breach. These amounts could be substantial. We have agreed to indemnify Novartis and its affiliates against losses suffered as a result of our breach of representations and warranties in the development and commercialization agreement and the stock purchase agreement. Under the development and commercialization agreement and stock purchase agreement, we made numerous representations and warranties to Novartis regarding our HCV and HBV drug candidates, including representations regarding our ownership of and licensed rights to the inventions and discoveries relating to such drug candidates. If one or more of our representations or warranties were subsequently determined not to be true at the time we made them to Novartis, we would be in breach of these agreements. In the event of a breach by us, Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, which include many of our directors and officers, for damages suffered by Novartis as a result of such breach. The amounts for which we could become liable to Novartis could be substantial. In May 2004, we entered into a settlement agreement with UAB, relating to our ownership of our former chief executive officer’s, Jean-Pierre Sommadossi, Ph.D., inventorship interest in certain of our patents and patent applications, including patent applications covering our HCV drug candidates. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to make payments to UAB, including an initial payment made in 2004 in the amount of $2.0 million, as well as regulatory milestone payments and payments relating to net sales of certain products. Novartis may seek to recover from us and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, which include many of our officers and directors, the losses it suffers as a result of any breach of the representations and warranties we made relating to our HCV drug candidates and may assert that such losses include the settlement payments. In July 2008, we, our former chief executive officer, in his individual capacity, the University of Montpellier and CNRS entered into a settlement agreement with UAB, UABRF, and Emory University. Pursuant to this settlement agreement, all contractual disputes relating to patents covering the use of certain synthetic nucleosides for the treatment of HBV and all litigation matters relating to patents and patent applications related to the use of ß-L-2’-deoxy-nucleosides for the treatment of HBV assigned to one or more of Idenix, CNRS, and the University of Montpellier and which cover the use of telbivudine (Tyzeka®/Sebivo®) for the treatment of HBV have been resolved. Under the terms of the settlement, we paid UABRF (on behalf of UAB and Emory University) a $4.0 million upfront payment and will make additional payments to UABRF equal to 20% of all royalty payments received by us from Novartis based on worldwide sales of telbivudine, subject to minimum payment obligations aggregating $11.0 million. Novartis may seek to recover from us and, under certain circumstances, us and those of our officers, directors and other stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, such losses and other losses it suffers as a result of any breach of the representations and warranties we made relating to our HBV drug candidates and may assert that such losses include the settlement payments. If we materially breach our obligations or covenants arising under the development and commercialization agreement with Novartis, we may lose our rights to develop or commercialize our drug candidates. We have significant obligations to Novartis under the development and commercialization agreement. The obligations to which we are subject include the responsibility for developing and, in some countries, co-promoting or co-marketing the products licensed to Novartis in accordance with plans and budgets subject to Novartis’ approval. The covenants and agreements we made when entering into the development and commercialization agreement include covenants relating to payments of our required portion of development expenses under the development and commercialization agreement, compliance with certain third-party license agreements, the conduct of our clinical studies and activities relating to the commercialization of any products that we successfully develop. If we materially breach this agreement and are unable within an agreed time period to cure such breach, the agreement may be terminated and we may be required to grant Novartis an exclusive license to develop, manufacture and/or sell such products. Although such a license would be subject to payment of a royalty by Novartis to be negotiated in good faith, we and Novartis have stipulated that no such payments would permit the breaching party to receive more than 90% of the net benefit it was entitled to receive before the agreement was terminated. Accordingly, if we materially breach our obligations under the development and commercialization agreement, we may lose our rights to develop our drug candidates or commercialize our successfully developed products and may receive lower payments from Novartis than we had anticipated. If we issue capital stock, in certain situations, Novartis will be able to purchase shares at par value to maintain its percentage ownership in Idenix and, if that occurs, this could cause dilution. In addition, Novartis has the right, under specified circumstances, to purchase a pro rata portion of other shares that we may issue. Under the terms of the stockholders’ agreement, Novartis has the right to purchase, at par value of $0.001 per share, such number of shares of our capital stock that would be required to maintain its percentage ownership of our voting stock if we issue shares of capital stock in connection with the acquisition or in-licensing of technology through the issuance of up to 5% of our stock in any 24-month period. If Novartis elects to maintain its percentage ownership of our voting stock under the rights described above, Novartis will be buying such shares at a price, that is substantially below market value, which would cause dilution. This right of Novartis will remain in effect until the earlier of: • the date that Novartis and its affiliates own less than 19.4% of our voting stock; or • the date that Novartis becomes obligated under the stock purchase agreement to make the additional future contingent payments of $357.0 million to our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis in May 2003. 31 Table of Contents In addition to the right to purchase shares of our common stock at par value as described above, Novartis has the right, subject to limited exceptions noted below, to purchase a pro rata portion of shares of capital stock that we issue. The price that Novartis pays for these securities would be the price that we offer such securities to third-parties, including the price paid by persons who acquire shares of our capital stock pursuant to awards granted under stock compensation or equity incentive plans. Novartis’ right to purchase a pro rata portion does not include: • securities issuable in connection with any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend or recapitalization that we undertake that affects all holders of our common stock proportionately; • shares that Novartis has the right to purchase at par value, as described above; • shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options and other awards pursuant to our 1998 equity incentive plan; and • securities issuable in connection with our acquisition of all the capital stock or all or substantially all of the assets of another entity. Novartis’ right to purchase shares includes a right to purchase securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, provided that Novartis’ right to purchase stock in connection with options or other convertible securities issued to any of our directors, officers, employees or consultants pursuant to any stock compensation or equity incentive plan will not be triggered until the underlying equity security has been issued to the director, officer, employee or consultant. Novartis has waived its right to purchase additional shares of our common stock as a result of the shares of common stock we issued to GSK. Additionally, Novartis did not purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our underwritten offerings in August 2009 and in April 2010 and Novartis’ ownership was subsequently diluted from approximately 53% prior to the August 2009 offering to approximately 43% as of February 15, 2011. If Novartis terminates or fails to perform its obligations under the development and commercialization agreement, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our drug candidates licensed to Novartis and the development and commercialization of our other drug candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated. Under the amended development and commercialization agreement, Novartis is solely responsible for the worldwide development, commercialization and manufacturing rights to telbivudine. We expect to co-promote or co-market with Novartis other products, if any, that Novartis has licensed or will license from us which are successfully developed and approved for commercialization. As a result, we will depend upon the success of the efforts of Novartis to manufacture, market and sell Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and our other products, if any, that we successfully develop and license to Novartis. However, we have limited control over the resources that Novartis may devote to such manufacturing and commercialization efforts and, if Novartis does not devote sufficient time and resources to such efforts, we may not realize the commercial or financial benefits we anticipate, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, Novartis has the right to terminate the development and commercialization agreement with respect to any product, drug candidate or country with six months written notice to us. If Novartis were to breach or terminate this agreement with us, the development or commercialization of the affected drug candidate or product could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient resources or capabilities, financial or otherwise, to continue development and commercialization of the drug candidate, and we may not be successful in entering into a collaboration with another third-party. Novartis has the right to market and sell products that compete with the drug candidates and products that we license to it and any competition by Novartis could have a material adverse effect on our business. Novartis may market, sell, promote or license competitive products. Novartis has significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and is better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. In addition, Novartis has more extensive experience in preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In the event that Novartis competes with us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Factors Related to Our Dependence on Third-Parties Other Than Novartis If we seek to enter into collaboration agreements for any drug candidates other than those licensed to Novartis and GSK and we are not successful in establishing such collaborations, we may not be able to continue development of those drug candidates. Our drug development programs and product commercialization efforts will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses to be incurred in connection with these activities. While we have entered into the development and commercialization agreement with Novartis in May 2003 and the GSK license agreement in February 2009, we may seek to enter into additional collaboration agreements with other pharmaceutical companies to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization of drug candidates that Novartis does not license. We are currently seeking a partner who will assist in the future development and commercialization of our drug candidate, IDX184, for the treatment of HCV. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements and the terms of any such collaboration agreements may not be favorable to us. If we are not successful in our efforts to enter into a collaboration arrangement with respect to a drug candidate, we may not have sufficient funds to develop such drug candidate or any other drug candidate internally. 32 Table of Contents If we do not have sufficient funds to develop our drug candidates, we will not be able to bring these drug candidates to market and generate revenue. As a result, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude the development, manufacture and/or commercialization of a drug candidate and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: • we may be required to expend our own funds to advance the drug candidate to commercialization; • revenue from product sales could be delayed; or • we may elect not to develop or commercialize the drug candidate. Our license agreement with GSK is important to our business. The milestone payments and royalties we could receive under our license agreement with GSK could be delayed, reduced or terminated if GSK terminates or fails to perform its obligations under its agreement with us or if GSK is unsuccessful in its sales efforts. In February 2009, we entered into the GSK license agreement under which we granted GSK an exclusive worldwide license to develop, manufacture and commercialize our NNRTI compounds, including IDX899, now known as ‘761, for the treatment of human diseases, including HIV/AIDS. In February 2011, GSK informed us that the FDA placed ‘761 on clinical hold. Our potential revenues under this license agreement will consist primarily of development and sales milestones and royalty payments based on worldwide annual net sales, if any, of an NNRTI compound, including ‘761, by GSK, its affiliates and sublicensees. Milestone payments and royalties under this agreement will depend solely on GSK’s efforts, including development and sales efforts and enforcement of patents, which we cannot control. If GSK does not devote sufficient time and resources to its license agreement with us or focuses its efforts in countries where we do not hold patents, we may not receive any such milestone or royalty payment and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If GSK were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or fail to perform its obligations to us in a timely manner, the milestone payments and royalties we could receive under the GSK license agreement could decrease or cease. Any delay or termination of this type could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we may lose technology rights and milestone or royalty payments from GSK and/or revenues from product sales, if any, could be delayed, reduced or terminated. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We work with chemists and biologists at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. Many of our drug candidates were discovered with the research and development assistance of these chemists and biologists. Many of the scientists who have contributed to the discovery and development of our drug candidates are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us. Although our scientific advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. We have depended on third-party manufacturers to manufacture products for us. If in the future we manufacture any of our products, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish these capabilities. We have relied upon third-parties to produce material for preclinical and clinical studies and may continue to do so in the future. Although we believe that we will not have any material supply issues, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain long-term supply arrangements of those materials on acceptable terms. We also expect to rely on third-parties to produce materials required for clinical trials and for the commercial production of certain of our products if we succeed in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our products or market them. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third-party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach by the third-party of agreements related to supply because of factors beyond our control and the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third-party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to cGMP regulations. Any failure by us or our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMPs and/or our failure to scale up our manufacturing processes could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval. In addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals for drug candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action. 33 Table of Contents Factors Related to Patents and Licenses If we are unable to adequately protect our patents and licenses related to our drug candidates, or if we infringe the rights of others, it may not be possible to successfully commercialize products that we develop. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for any products we successfully develop. The patents and patent applications in our patent portfolio are either owned by us, exclusively licensed to us, or co-owned by us and others and exclusively licensed to us. Our ability to protect any products we successfully develop from unauthorized or infringing use by third-parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for any products we successfully develop or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have been issued or will be issued, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be, valid or enforceable, or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that may affect our business, either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, by preventing the patentability of our drug candidates by us, our licensors or co-owners, or by covering the same or similar technologies that may invalidate our patents, limiting the scope of our future patent claims or adversely affecting our ability to market our drug candidates. For example, patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which we refer to as the “U.S. Patent Office”, for the entire time prior to issuance of a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on our product or drug candidates or for their uses. In the event that a third-party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product or drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, potentially resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. Since our HBV product, telbivudine, was a known compound before the filing of our patent applications covering the use of this drug candidate to treat HBV, we cannot obtain patent protection on telbivudine itself. As a result, we have obtained and maintain patents granted on the method of using telbivudine as a medical therapy for the treatment of HBV. In July 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with UAB, UABRF and Emory University relating to our telbivudine technology. Pursuant to this settlement agreement, all contractual disputes relating to patents covering the use of certain synthetic nucleosides for the treatment of HBV and all litigation matters relating to patents and patent applications related to the use of ß-L-2’-deoxy-nucleosides for the treatment of HBV assigned to one or more of Idenix, CNRS and the University of Montpellier and which cover the use of telbivudine (Tyzeka®/Sebivo®) for the treatment of HBV have been resolved. UAB also agreed to abandon certain continuation patent applications it filed in July 2005. Under the terms of the settlement, we paid UABRF (on behalf of UAB and Emory University) a $4.0 million upfront payment and will make additional payments to UABRF equal to 20% of all royalty payments received by us from Novartis based on worldwide sales of telbivudine, subject to minimum payment obligations in the aggregate of $11.0 million. In accordance with our patent strategy, we are attempting to obtain patent protection for our HCV nucleoside/nucleotide polymerase inhibitor drug candidate, IDX184. We have filed U.S. and foreign patent applications related to IDX184 itself, as well as to methods of treating HCV with IDX184. Further, we are prosecuting U.S. and foreign patent applications, and have been granted U.S. and foreign patents, claiming methods of treating HCV with nucleoside polymerase inhibitors including compounds that relate to IDX184. We are aware that a number of other companies have filed patent applications attempting to cover broad classes of compounds and their use to treat HCV or infection by any member of the Flaviviridae virus family to which HCV belongs. These classes of compounds might relate to nucleoside polymerase inhibitors associated with IDX184. The companies include Merck & Co., Inc., Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ribapharm, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International), Genelabs Technologies, Inc., Pharmasset, Inc. and Biota, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biota Holdings Ltd.). A foreign country may grant patent rights covering our drug candidates to one or more other companies. If that occurs, we may need to challenge the third-party patent rights, and if we do not challenge or are not successful with the challenge, we will need to obtain a license that might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The U.S. Patent Office may grant patent rights covering our drug candidates to one or more other companies. If that occurs, we may need to challenge the third-party patent rights, and if we do not challenge or are not successful with the challenge, we will need to obtain a license that might not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms. 34 Table of Contents In accordance with our patent strategy, we are attempting to obtain, and in some jurisdictions have obtained, patent protection for our HIV drug candidate IDX899, which we licensed to GSK in 2009. We have filed and are prosecuting U.S. and foreign patent applications directed to IDX899 itself, as well as methods of treating HIV with IDX899. A number of companies have filed patent applications and have obtained patents covering general methods for the treatment of HBV, HCV and HIV that could materially affect the ability to develop and commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other drug candidates we may develop in the future. For example, we are aware that Apath, LLC has obtained broad patents covering HCV proteins, nucleic acids, diagnostics and drug screens. If we need to use these patented materials or methods to develop any of our HCV drug candidates and the materials or methods fall outside certain safe harbors in the laws governing patent infringement, we will need to buy these products from a licensee of the company authorized to sell such products or we will require a license from one or more companies, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. This could materially affect or preclude our ability to develop and sell our HCV drug candidates. If we find that any drug candidates we are developing should be used in combination with a product covered by a patent held by another company or institution, and that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement or inducement of infringement of certain third-party patents claims covering the product recommended for co-administration with our product. In that case, we may be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to provide the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation and disputes related to intellectual property matters occur frequently in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are unsuccessful in litigation concerning patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us, we may not be able to protect our products from competition or we may be precluded from selling our products. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing drug candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Such litigation could take place in the United States in a federal court or in the U.S. Patent Office. The litigation could also take place in a foreign country, in either the courts or the patent office of that country. Our success will depend in part on our ability to uphold and enforce patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us, which cover products we successfully develop. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications could result in adverse decisions regarding: • ownership of patents and patent applications; • the patentability of our inventions relating to our products and drug candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our products and drug candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management’s time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In May 2004, we and our former chief executive officer, Jean-Pierre Sommadossi, Ph.D., entered into a settlement agreement with UAB resolving a dispute regarding ownership of inventions and discoveries made by our former chief executive officer during the period from November 1999 to November 2002, at which time our former chief executive officer was on sabbatical and then unpaid leave from his position at UAB. The patent applications we filed with respect to such inventions and discoveries include the patent applications covering valopicitabine and IDX184. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to make a $2.0 million initial payment to UAB, as well as other contingent payments based upon the commercial launch of other HCV products discovered or invented by our former chief executive officer during his sabbatical and unpaid leave. In addition, UAB and UABRF have each agreed that neither of them has any right, title or ownership interest in these inventions and discoveries. Under the development and commercialization agreement and stock purchase agreement, we made numerous representations and warranties to Novartis regarding our HCV program, including representations regarding our ownership of the inventions and discoveries. If one or more of our representations or warranties were subsequently determined not to be true at the time we made them to Novartis, we would be in breach of these agreements. In the event of a breach by us, Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, which include many of our directors and officers, for damages suffered by Novartis as a result of such breach. The amounts for which we could be liable to Novartis could be substantial. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others. If it is determined that we do infringe a patent right of another, we may be required to seek a license (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all), defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we are not successful in infringement litigation and we do not license or develop non-infringing technology, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our drug candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. 35 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. To protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and confidential information and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If any of our agreements that grant us the exclusive right to make, use and sell our drug candidates are terminated, we and/or our collaboration partners may be unable to develop or commercialize our drug candidates. We, together with Novartis, entered into an amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier, co-owners of the patents and patent applications covering Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and valtorcitabine. This agreement covers both the cooperative research program and the terms of our exclusive right to exploit the results of the cooperative research, including Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and valtorcitabine. The cooperative research program with CNRS and the University of Montpellier ended in December 2006 although many of the terms remain in effect for the duration of the patent life of the affected products. We, together with Novartis, and in 2009 with GSK, have also entered into two agreements with the University of Cagliari, the co-owner of the patents and patent applications covering some of our HCV drug candidates and certain HIV drug candidates. One agreement with the University of Cagliari covers our cooperative research program and the other agreement is an exclusive license to develop and sell jointly created drug candidates. Under the amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and the license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari, we obtained from our co-owners the exclusive right to exploit these drug candidates. Subject to certain rights afforded to Novartis and to GSK as they relate to the license agreement with the University of Cagliari, these agreements can be terminated by either party in circumstances such as the occurrence of an uncured breach by the non-terminating party. The termination of our rights, including patent rights, under the agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier or the license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari would have a material adverse effect on our business and could prevent us from developing a drug candidate or selling a product. In addition, these agreements provide that we pay certain costs of patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement. These costs could be substantial. Our inability or failure to pay these costs could result in the termination of the agreements or certain rights under them. Under our amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and our license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari, we and Novartis have the right to exploit and license our co-owned drug candidates. Under our license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari, we and GSK have the right to exploit and license our co-owned drug candidates. However, our agreements with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and with the University of Cagliari are currently governed by, and will be interpreted and enforced under, French and Italian law, respectively, which are different in substantial respects from United States law and which may be unfavorable to us in material respects. Under French law, co-owners of intellectual property cannot exploit, assign or license their individual rights without the permission of the co-owners. Similarly, under Italian law, co-owners of intellectual property cannot exploit or license their individual rights without the permission of the co-owners. Accordingly, if our agreements with the University of Cagliari terminate based on a breach, we may not be able to exploit, license or otherwise convey to Novartis, GSK or other third-parties our rights in our products or drug candidates for a desired commercial purpose without the consent of the co-owner, which could materially affect our business and prevent us from developing our drug candidates and selling our products. Under United States law, a co-owner has the right to prevent the other co-owner from suing infringers by refusing to join voluntarily in a suit to enforce a patent. Our amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and our license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari provide that such parties will cooperate to enforce our jointly owned patents on our products or drug candidates. If these agreements terminate or the parties’ cooperation is not given or is withdrawn, or they refuse to join in litigation that requires their participation, we may not be able to enforce these patent rights or protect our markets. 36 Table of Contents Factors Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may have a volatile trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • realization of license fees and achievement of milestones under our development and commercialization agreement with Novartis; • realization of license fees, achievement of preclinical and clinical milestones and sales thresholds under the GSK license agreement; • reductions in proceeds associated with Novartis’ right to maintain its percentage ownership of our voting stock when we issue shares at a price below fair market value; • adverse developments regarding the safety and efficacy of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® or our other drug candidates; • the results of ongoing and planned clinical trials of our drug candidates; • developments in the market with respect to competing products or more generally the treatment of HBV, HCV or HIV; • the results of preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our other discovery-stage programs; • future sales of, and the trading volume in, our common stock; • the timing and success of the launch of products, if any, we successfully develop; • future royalty payments received by us associated with sales of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®; • the entry into key agreements, including those related to the acquisition or in-licensing of new programs, or the termination of key agreements; • the results and timing of regulatory actions relating to the approval of our drug candidates, including any decision by the regulatory authorities to place a clinical hold on our drug candidates; • the initiation of, material developments in or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; • the initiation of, material developments in or conclusion of litigation to defend products liability claims; • the failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or any approved products; • the loss of key employees; • adverse publicity related to our company, our products or our product candidates; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who cover our common stock; • future financings through the issuance of equity or debt securities or otherwise; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; • our cash position and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; and • the decision by Novartis to license a drug candidate that has completed a proof-of-concept clinical trial. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, so you must rely on stock price appreciation for any return on your investment. We anticipate retaining any future earnings for reinvestment in our research and development programs. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Sales of additional shares of our common stock could result in dilution to existing stockholders and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of common stock upon exercise of outstanding options could be dilutive and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. As of February 15, 2011, we had 73,106,487 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, together with outstanding options to purchase approximately 7,039,343 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $7.30 per share. Novartis and other holders of shares of common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. An investment in our common stock may decline in value as a result of announcements of business developments by us or our competitors. The market price of our common stock is subject to substantial volatility as a result of announcements by us or other companies in our industry. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may not be able to sell their shares of common stock at or above the price at which they purchased such stock. Announcements which may subject the price of our common stock to substantial volatility include: • our collaboration with Novartis; • our collaboration with GSK; • the results of our clinical trials pertaining to any of our drug candidates; • the results of discovery, preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or our competitors; • the acquisition of technologies, drug candidates or products by us or our competitors; • the development of new technologies, drug candidates or products by us or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our drug candidates or products or those of our competitors, including those relating to clinical trials, such as clinical holds imposed by regulatory authorities, marketing authorizations, pricing and reimbursement; • the timing and success of launches of any product we successfully develop; • future royalty payments received by us associated with sales of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®; • the market acceptance of any products we successfully develop; • significant changes to our existing business model; • the initiation of, material developments in or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; and • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors. In addition, if we fail to reach an important research, development or commercialization milestone or result by a publicly expected deadline, even if by only a small margin, there could be a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as we approach the announcement of important clinical data or other significant information and as we announce such results and information, we expect the price of our common stock to be particularly volatile and negative results would have a substantial negative impact on the price of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if such litigation occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. The stock market frequently experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. In September 2010, we experienced a significant decline in our stock price based on the FDA’s decision to place a clinical hold on IDX184 and IDX320, two of our drug candidates for the treatment of HCV. In addition, the market prices of securities of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry have been extremely volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. Due to the volatility in our stock price, we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 