Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks we do not yet know of or we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, before deciding to invest in our securities. 23 Table of Contents Factors Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have incurred a cumulative loss since inception. If we do not generate significant product sales, we will not be profitable. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in May 1998. We have generated limited revenue from the sale of products to date and are unable to make an accurate assessment of potential future revenue. We expect to incur annual operating losses over the next several years as we expand our drug discovery, development and commercialization efforts. We also expect that the net loss we will incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and such fluctuations may be substantial. To generate product sales, regulatory approval for products we successfully develop must be obtained and we and Novartis must effectively manufacture, market and sell such products. We introduced Tyzeka® commercially in the United States in the fourth quarter of 2006. Even if we successfully commercialize Tyzeka® in the United States or other product candidates that receive regulatory approval, we may not be able to realize revenues at a level that would allow us to achieve or sustain profitability. Our failure to become and remain profitable may depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. We will need additional capital to fund our operations, including the commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. If we do not have or cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates successfully. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance was approximately $186 million at December 31, 2006. We believe that this balance, milestone payments we expect to receive from Novartis for the approval of Sebivo® in Europe and China, the development funding we expect to receive from Novartis relating to Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine, and the anticipated proceeds from sales of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs until the end of 2008. However, we may need or choose to seek additional funding within this period of time. The commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, and the development of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses that we will incur in connection with sales and marketing efforts, manufacturing of commercial supply, preclinical studies and clinical trials and regulatory review. We expect that our selling, general and administrative expenses will increase significantly as we continue to commercialize and launch Tyzeka®/Sebivo® in the United States and, if approved, in the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France and Spain, and thereafter continue efforts to market and sell Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and any other product candidates we successfully develop. Our need for additional funding will depend in large part on whether: • Tyzeka®/Sebivo® is approved for sale in other major markets in addition to the United States; • with respect to Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine, Novartis continues to reimburse us for development expenses, and we achieve and receive from Novartis additional license fees and milestone payments relating to the development and regulatory approval of these licensed product candidates; and • with respect to our other product candidates, Novartis exercises its option to license other product candidates, and we receive related license fees, milestone payments and development expense reimbursement payments from Novartis. In addition, although Novartis has agreed to pay for certain development expenses incurred under development plans it approves for products and product candidates it has licensed from us, Novartis has the right to terminate its license and the related funding obligations with respect to any such product or product candidate by providing us with six months written notice. Our future capital needs will also depend generally on many other factors, including: • the costs of commercializing and launching Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, which are successfully developed and approved for commercial sale by regulatory authorities; 24 Table of Contents • the amount of revenue that we may be able to realize from commercialization and sale of telbivudine and other product candidates, if any, which are approved for commercial sale by regulatory authorities; • the scope and results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the progress of our current preclinical and clinical development programs for HCV, HBV and HIV; • the cost of obtaining, maintaining and defending patents on Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, our product candidates and our processes; • the arrangements we establish for manufacturing and the related cost of manufacturing commercial supply of products; • the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; • the cost of establishing and maintaining sales and marketing functions; • the commercial potential of our product candidates; • the rate of technological advances in our markets; • the cost of acquiring or in-licensing new discovery compounds, technologies, product candidates or other business assets; • the magnitude of our general and administrative expenses; and • any costs we may incur under current and future licensing arrangements. We expect that we will incur significant costs to complete the clinical trials and other studies required to enable us to submit NDAs with the FDA for our HBV product candidate, valtorcitabine, and our HCV product candidate, valopicitabine as we continue development of each of these product candidates. The time and cost to complete clinical development of these product candidates may vary as a result of a number of factors. Additionally, we expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with the ongoing clinical evaluation of the use of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® in patients with liver failure, or decompensated liver disease, and in connection with several clinical trials of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® that are being conducted to further establish the product profile and support the commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings and collaborative, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements. Such additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. If we raise additional capital through the sale of our common stock, existing stockholders, other than Novartis, which has the right to maintain its current level of ownership, will be diluted and the terms of the financing may adversely affect the holdings or rights of our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we could be required to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs or to enter into new collaborative, strategic alliance or licensing arrangements that may not be favorable to us. These arrangements could result in the transfer to third parties of rights that we consider valuable. We may be unable to commercialize products for which we receive approval from regulatory agencies. Even though we have received approval from regulatory authorities in several jurisdictions outside the United States for Sebivo®, commercialization of Sebivo® in these jurisdictions could be delayed for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control. Specifically, commercialization of Sebivo® in these jurisdictions may be delayed by our failure, or the failure of Novartis, to timely finalize distribution arrangements, manufacturing process and arrangements, produce sufficient inventory and/or properly prepare the sales force. If we are unable to launch and commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® on the timeline we anticipate, our business and financial position may be materially adversely affected due to reduced revenue from product sales during the period that commercialization is delayed. 25 Table of Contents We will not be able to continue to commercialize our drug products successfully if we are unable to hire, train, deploy and retain qualified sales personnel as part of our sales force. Our commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we successfully develop will depend upon our ability to establish and maintain an effective marketing and sales organization. Currently, we have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. In July 2006, we established a U.S. sales force and we continue to recruit sales personnel to establish a direct sales force for the European markets in which we expect to co-promote or co-market Sebivo® with Novartis, if marketing authorization is received. Competition for sales personnel is intense. Due to the promotion, marketing and sale of competitive and potentially competitive products within specialized markets by companies that have significantly greater resources and existing commercialization infrastructures, it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel with experience in sales and marketing of viral and other infectious disease therapeutics. Even if we successfully hire sales personnel, we may not be successful in training and deploying them. For the commercial launch of Sebivo®, if approved in the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany or Spain, we will rely heavily on the sales and marketing capabilities that Novartis will provide, and in addition, if we are not successful in hiring, training, deploying and retaining our own qualified sales personnel in these countries, then we may not be able to successfully commercialize Sebivo®. Furthermore, we do not know if our U.S. sales force or other sales forces we seek to establish in Europe will be sufficient in size or scope to compete successfully in the marketplace. We will incur significant expense to establish and maintain our marketing and sales capabilities. To maintain our U.S. marketing and sales capabilities and establish our marketing and sales capabilities in the European countries in which we expect to co-promote and co-market with Novartis any products for which we receive marketing authorization, we will incur significant expenses. Moreover, if the marketing authorizations for Sebivo® in any of the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France or Spain is delayed substantially, or not approved, we will have incurred significant unrecoverable expenses. The cost of establishing a marketing and sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product or combination of products in any one or more markets and if approval is delayed or we fail to obtain marketing authorization in any particular market, we will have incurred significant unrecoverable expenses. In the United States and the European countries in which we expect to co-promote and co-market with Novartis Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, our sales force may be unable to meet our share of the total product details, as defined in the development agreement. If we are unable to meet our share of total product details, then we may be subject to financial penalties payable to Novartis, as specified in the development agreement. Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, other products we successfully develop and our product candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. We are engaged in segments of the pharmaceutical industry that are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are commercializing or pursuing the development of products that target viral diseases, including the same diseases we are targeting. We face intense competition from existing products and we expect to face increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. For the treatment of hepatitis B infection, we are aware of four other drug products, specifically, lamivudine, entecavir and adefovir dipivoxil, each nucleoside analogs, and pegylated interferon, which are approved by the FDA and commercially available in the United States. These products have preceded Tyzeka®/Sebivo® into the marketplace and have gained acceptance with physicians and patients. For the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, the current standard of care is pegylated interferon in combination with ribavirin, a nucleoside analog. Currently, for the treatment of HIV infection, there are 22 antiviral therapies approved for commercial sale in the United States. Of these approved therapies, seven are nucleosides, three are non-nucleosides, 11 are protease inhibitors and one is an entry inhibitor. We believe that a significant number of drug candidates that are currently under development may become available in the future for the treatment of HBV, HCV and HIV infections. Our competitors’ products may be more 26 Table of Contents effective, have fewer side effects, lower costs or be better marketed and sold, than any of our products. Additionally, products our competitors successfully develop for the treatment of HCV and HIV may be marketed prior to any HCV or HIV product we successfully develop. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products; • more extensive experience in conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • products that have been approved or product candidates that are in late-stage development; and • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Under certain circumstances, Novartis has the right to compete with products and product candidates developed or licensed by us. Novartis has the right under certain circumstances to market and sell products that compete with the product candidates and products that we license to it, and any competition by Novartis could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our product candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of vaccines for the diseases we are targeting could render our product candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. With respect to Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we may successfully develop and obtain approval to commercialize, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective or more affordable products, or obtain more effective patent protection, than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in part on the success of our marketing and sales efforts. We do not know if our sales force in the United States or the sales force we are establishing in Europe will be sufficient in size or scope to compete successfully in such marketplaces. Among other factors, we may not be able to gain sufficient access to healthcare practitioners, which would have a negative effect on our ability to promote our products, gain market acceptance and acquire market share from existing products. In addition to direct competition, to receive attention from and be considered by physicians and patients, Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and any other product we may successfully develop and receive approval to commercialize will compete against the promotional efforts of other companies and products. In the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical markets, the level of promotional effort required to effect awareness of new products is substantial. Market acceptance of our products will be affected by the level of promotional effort that we are able to provide for our products. The level of our promotional efforts will depend in part on our ability to continue to recruit, train, deploy and retain an effective sales and marketing organization. We cannot offer assurance that the levels of promotional effort that we will be able to provide for products we successfully develop will be effective in allowing our products to compete successfully in the market. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. 27 Table of Contents If Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize fail to achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. Our success and growth will depend upon the acceptance by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payers of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we successfully develop. Acceptance will be a function of: • our products being clinically useful and demonstrating similar or superior therapeutic effect with an acceptable side effect profile as compared to existing or future treatments; • the timing of our receipt of marketing approvals, the terms of any approval (including labeling requirements and/or limitations), and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • the perception of our products by physicians and other members of the healthcare community and the success of our physician and healthcare professional education programs; and • the availability and level of government and third-party payer reimbursement. Lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil and entecavir are small molecule therapeutics currently approved in the United States and some other jurisdictions for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. The current standard of care for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C is the combination of pegylated interferon and ribavirin, a small molecule therapeutic. The labeling for our approved products will have a direct impact on our marketing, promotional and sales programs. Unfavorable labeling will restrict our marketing, promotional and sales programs, which would adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We are aware that a significant number of competitor product candidates are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of HBV, HCV and HIV infections. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, then we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue from product sales to maintain or grow our business. In addition, even if Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we successfully develop are approved for sale and achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if: • new products, including lower priced generic products or technologies, are introduced that are more favorably received than our products or render our products obsolete; • there are changes in the regulatory environment affecting manufacture, marketing or use of our products; • litigation or threatened litigation arises with respect to the use of our products; • we are not successful in our marketing and sales efforts; • we encounter unfavorable publicity regarding our products or similar products; or • complications, such as unacceptable levels of viral resistance or adverse side effects, arise with respect to the use of our products. Our research and development efforts may not result in additional product candidates being discovered on anticipated timelines, if at all, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. Our research and development programs, other than our programs for valtorcitabine for HBV, valopicitabine for HCV and NNRTIs for HIV, are at preclinical stages. Additional product candidates that we may develop will require significant research, development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory approval and commitment of resources before any commercialization may occur. We cannot predict whether our research will lead to the discovery of any additional product candidates that could generate revenues for us. We have recently submitted to the FDA an exploratory IND, for two HIV product candidates. This exploratory IND evaluation is intended to enable us to gain human pharmacokinetic insights through a microdosing study in healthy volunteers. The microdosing study is now complete and based on the overall profile of the product candidates, we have selected one of these product candidates, IDX-899, to advance in clinical development. 28 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully acquire or develop and market additional product candidates or approved drugs would impair our ability to grow. As part of our strategy, we intend to establish a franchise in the HBV and HCV market by developing two or more product candidates for each therapeutic indication. The success of this strategy depends upon the development and commercialization of additional product candidates that we successfully discover, license or otherwise acquire. Product candidates we discover, license or acquire will require additional and likely substantial development, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Proposing, negotiating and implementing acquisition or in-license of product candidates may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. As we continue to evolve from a company that was primarily involved in discovery and development to one also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. We have experienced rapid and substantial growth that has placed a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, and we expect that our anticipated growth will continue to have a similar impact. As we market and sell Tyzeka® in the United States, further our preparations for the commercial launch of Sebivo® in jurisdictions outside the United States and advance our product candidates through clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, we are expanding significantly our marketing and sales, development, regulatory and manufacturing capabilities. In both the United States and Europe, we are entering into contracts with third parties to provide certain of these capabilities for us. Such expansion of capabilities is requiring us to invest substantial cash and management resources. If the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of any of our product candidates is delayed or terminated, we will have incurred significant unrecoverable costs in connection with the expansion of our administrative and operational capabilities at a time earlier than necessary, if necessary at all. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls that could expose us to an increased risk of incurring financial or accounting irregularities or fraud. If we are not able to attract and retain key management, scientific and commercial personnel and advisors, we may not successfully develop our product candidates, commercialize any products or achieve our other business objectives. The growth of our business and our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management, research and development, and sales and marketing personnel. Our key personnel include our senior officers, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge. Additionally, the successful commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® will depend in large part on our ability to recruit, train, deploy and retain an effective sales and marketing organization in a timely fashion. Our inability to recruit, train, deploy or retain an effective sales and marketing organization, or the loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management team may significantly delay or prevent our discovery of additional product candidates, the development of our product candidates, the successful commercialization of products we develop and achievement of our other business objectives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors is critical to our success. 29 Table of Contents We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain these individuals, and our failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Product liability claims could result in a recall of products or a change in the therapeutic indications for which such products may be used. In addition, product liability claims may distract our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages, which could prevent or interfere with commercialization efforts and could adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature would also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. For Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, product liability claims could be made against us based on the use of our product in people. For Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and our product candidates, product liability claims could be made against us based on the use of our product candidates in clinical trials. We have obtained product liability insurance for Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and maintain clinical trial insurance for our product candidates in development. Such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. In addition, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain or increase current amounts of product liability and clinical trial insurance coverage, obtain product liability insurance for other products, if any, that we seek to commercialize, obtain additional clinical trial insurance or obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our products or conduct the clinical trials necessary to develop our product candidates. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts in damages. This could adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which will leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. We currently maintain general liability, property, auto, workers’ compensation, products liability, directors’ and officers’, and employment practices insurance policies. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance with adequate levels of coverage. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. If the estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be no assurance, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will not change. One of these estimates is our estimate of the development period to amortize license fee revenue from Novartis which we review on a quarterly basis. As of December 31, 2006, we have estimated that the performance period during which the development of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine will be completed is a period of approximately seven and one half years following the effective date of the development agreement that we entered into with Novartis, or December 2010. If the estimated development period changes, we will adjust periodic revenue that is being recognized and will record the remaining unrecognized license fees and other up-front payments over the remaining development period during which our performance obligations will be completed. 30 Table of Contents Significant judgments and estimates are involved in determining the estimated development period and different assumptions could yield materially different financial results. This, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. If we fail to design and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report in Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s registered independent public accountants must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We have completed an assessment and will continue to review in the future our internal control over financial reporting in an effort to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements. The manner by which companies implement, maintain and enhance these requirements including internal control reforms, if any, to comply with Section 404, and how registered independent public accountants apply these requirements and test companies’ internal controls, is subject to change and will evolve over time. As a result, notwithstanding our efforts, it is possible that either our management or our registered independent public accountants may in the future determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. A determination that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. Factors Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates All of our product candidates, other than Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, are in development. Our product candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to develop our product candidates, we will not be successful. To date, we have limited experience marketing, distributing and selling any products. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to successfully commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, we successfully develop. We received approval from the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2006 to market and sell Tyzeka® for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in the United States. Applications seeking authorization to market Sebivo® have been filed with the EMEA and regulatory authorities in certain other jurisdictions. We are conducting phase IIb clinical trials of both valopicitabine and the combination of valtorcitabine and telbivudine. Our other product candidates are in various earlier stages of development. All of our product candidates require regulatory review and approval prior to commercialization. Approval by regulatory authorities requires, among other things, that our product candidates satisfy rigorous standards of safety, including assessments of the toxicity and carcinogenicity of the product candidates we are developing, and efficacy. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy testing. As a result of efforts to satisfy these regulatory standards, our product candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other improvements over existing drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or • be successfully commercialized. Commercial availability of our product candidates is dependent upon successful clinical development and receipt of requisite regulatory approvals. Clinical data often are susceptible to varying interpretations. Many 31 Table of Contents companies that have believed that their product candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials in terms of both safety and efficacy have nonetheless failed to obtain approval for such product candidates. Furthermore, the FDA may request from us and the EMEA and regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions may request from Novartis, additional information including data from additional clinical trials, which may delay significantly any approval and ultimately may not grant marketing approval for any of our product candidates. If our clinical trials are not successful, we will not obtain regulatory approval for commercial sale of our product candidates. To obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we will be required to demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive and the historical rate of failure for product candidates is high. The results from preclinical studies of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may prohibit the initiation or suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if we or they believe the persons participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. For example, in our ongoing phase IIb clinical trials evaluating the combination of valopicitabine and pegylated interferon, in March 2006, following discussions with the FDA, we modified the trial design to reduce valopicitabine dosing levels from 800 mg/day to 200 mg/day or 400 mg/day. We made this modification to our ongoing phase IIb clinical trials after observing that patients receiving the 800 mg dose of valopicitabine experienced a higher proportion of the reported moderate or severe gastrointestinal side effects compared to observations at the 200 to 400 mg/day dosing level. The observation of adverse side effects in a clinical trial may result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve a particular product candidate for any or all indications of use. Additionally, adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs, significantly delay the submission of applications seeking marketing approval for such product candidates, result in a filing or approval, if any, for a narrower indication than was originally sought or result in a decision to discontinue development of such product candidates. Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial and clinical trials evaluating other investigational agents, which may compete with us for patient enrollment. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend our clinical trials, delay or suspend patient enrollment into our clinical trials or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Delays in the development of our product candidates would delay our ability to seek and potentially obtain regulatory approvals, increase expenses associated with clinical development and increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Any of the following could suspend, terminate or delay the completion of our ongoing, or the initiation of our planned, clinical trials: • discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from, or suspensions or termination by institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays enrolling participants into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention of participants in clinical trials; 32 Table of Contents • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • serious or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or • negative results of clinical trials. If the results of our ongoing or planned clinical trials for our product candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials: • we may be unable to complete phase III and phase IIIb/IV clinical trials of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®; • we may be unable to complete phase IIb clinical trials of valtorcitabine and/or valopicitabine; • we may be unable to initiate phase III clinical trials of valtorcitabine and/or valopicitabine; • we may be unable to commence human clinical trials of any HIV product candidate, additional HCV product candidates or other product candidates; • Novartis may choose not to license our product candidates other than Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine, and we may not be able to enter into other collaborative arrangements for any of our other product candidates; or • we may not have the financial resources to continue the research and development of our product candidates. If our product candidates fail to obtain U.S. and/or foreign regulatory approval, we and our collaborators will be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Each of our product candidates is subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions prior to the commercial sale of our product candidates. Before any product candidate can be approved for sale, we must demonstrate that it can be manufactured in accordance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, which are a rigorous set of requirements. In addition, facilities where the principal commercial supply of a product is to be manufactured must pass FDA inspection prior to approval. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of our product candidates we are currently developing will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to permit commercial distribution. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. The time required for FDA and other approvals is uncertain and typically takes a number of years, depending upon the complexity of the product candidate. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action, changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from a particular product candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. These restrictions may limit the size of the market for the product. Additionally, product candidates we successfully develop could be subject to post market surveillance and testing. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, and we, with Novartis, are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements relating to manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by any one regulatory authority does not assure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Many foreign regulatory authorities, including those in the European 33 Table of Contents Union and in China, a major market for chronic hepatitis B therapeutics, have different approval procedures than those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for Sebivo® and our product candidates. While regulatory approval to market Sebivo® has been received in more than 10 countries outside the United States, including Switzerland, China, South Korea and Canada, the acceptability and approvability of other applications that have been submitted by Novartis for authorization to market Sebivo® in jurisdictions outside the United States cannot be currently predicted. Any failure or delay in obtaining such marketing authorizations would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review even after approval to market such products is obtained. If we fail to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose approvals we have been granted and our business would be seriously harmed. Even after approval, any drug product we successfully develop will remain subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results, which are reported after our product becomes commercially available. The marketing claims we are permitted to make in labeling or advertising regarding our marketed drugs in the United States are limited to those specified in any FDA approval, and in other markets, regulatory approvals similar to FDA approval. Manufacturing facilities of Novartis, where the principal commercial supply of Tyzeka® will be manufactured and any other manufacturer we use to make other approved products, if any, will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA or other similar regulatory authorities. We are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with our products and make other periodic reports to the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. We do not have, and currently do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material at commercial scale or for our clinical trials. Our reliance on Novartis and third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on such manufacturers for regulatory compliance. Certain changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require prior approval from regulatory authorities before the product as modified may be marketed. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to civil penalties, suspension or withdrawal of any regulatory approval obtained, product recalls and seizures, injunctions, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions and penalties. Because of these potential sanctions, we seek to monitor compliance with these regulations. If we are subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, our business may be harmed. The regulations governing drug product marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after product marketing authorization approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we or Novartis may obtain regulatory approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations, which may delay the commercial launch of the product and may negatively impact the revenues we are able to derive from sales by us or Novartis of the product in that country. Successful commercialization of our products will also depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Any of our commercial products may not be considered cost effective and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow sale of our products on a competitive basis. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies to demonstrate to third-party payers the cost effectiveness of our product candidates. Sales of prescription drugs depend on the availability and level of reimbursement from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. These third-party payers frequently require that drug companies provide predetermined discounts from list prices, and third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products. Other than Tyzeka® in the United States, neither Sebivo® in countries outside of the United States nor any of our product candidates have received the pricing approvals required to commercialize such products, and therefore we do not know the level of reimbursement, if any, that we will receive for 34 Table of Contents products. If the reimbursement we receive for any of our products is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare will increase pressure on drug pricing and continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. If we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our current or future products, healthcare providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements after receipt of approval to commercialize a product, we may be subject to significant sanctions imposed by the FDA, EMEA or other U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of product candidates and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure to comply with FDA or other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These enforcement actions may include without limitation: • warning letters and other regulatory authority communications objecting to matters such as promotional materials and requiring corrective action such as revised communications to healthcare practitioners; • civil penalties; • criminal penalties; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; and • FDA refusal to review or approve pending new drug applications or supplements to new drug applications for previously approved products, and/or similar rejections of marketing applications or supplements by foreign regulatory authorities. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions on us could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we violate healthcare statutes such as fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to significant penalties and expenses. Commercialization efforts in which we currently and expect to continue in the future to engage in the United States are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to pharmaceutical promotion and healthcare fraud and abuse, including the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, federal and state anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Our efforts to comply with these laws will be time consuming and expensive. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for any prescription drug manufacturer to offer or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify specific safe harbors or exemptions for types of payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. Whenever possible, we attempt to align our commercialization activities to such safe harbors, however, there can be no assurance that such activities will not be subject to scrutiny by government or private authorities. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. The activities in which we and Novartis expect to engage relating to the sale and marketing of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, that are approved for commercialization will be subject to scrutiny 35 Table of Contents under these laws and regulations. Violations may be punishable by significant criminal and/or civil fines and other penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion of the approved product from governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict us or any of our employees of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. Our activities and those of Novartis could be subject to challenge for many reasons, including the broad scope and complexity of these laws and regulations and the high degree of prosecutorial resources and attention being devoted to the sales practices of pharmaceutical companies by law enforcement authorities. During the last few years, several companies have agreed to enter into corporate integrity agreements and have paid multi-million dollar fines and settlements for alleged violation of these laws, and other companies are under active investigation. Although we have implemented a corporate compliance program as part of our commercialization preparations relating to Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, we have limited marketing and sales experience, and we cannot assure you that we or our employees, directors or agents are or will be or will act in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including the termination of clinical trials, the failure to gain regulatory approval of a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the approved product from the market, exclusion of the approved product from governmental healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid), significant criminal and/or civil fines or other penalties, and costly litigation. Additionally, Novartis has the right to terminate the development agreement due to our uncured material breach, which could include our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to our efforts to commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, that we successfully develop and receive approval to commercialize. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials and environmental liability insurance to cover us for costs associated with environmental or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Additional federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Factors Related to Our Relationship with Novartis Novartis has substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of December 31, 2006, Novartis owned approximately 56% of our outstanding common stock. For so long as Novartis owns at least a majority of our outstanding common stock, in addition to its contractual approval rights, Novartis has the ability to delay or prevent a change in control of Idenix that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: • the election of directors; • any amendment of our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated by-laws; 36 Table of Contents • the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or • the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit our other stockholders. Novartis has the right to exercise control over certain corporate actions that may not otherwise require stockholder approval as long as it holds at least 19.4% of our voting stock. As long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 19.4% of our voting stock, which we define below, we cannot take certain actions without the consent of Novartis. These actions include: • the authorization or issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or the capital stock of our subsidiaries, except for a limited number of specified issuances; • any change or modification to the structure of our board of directors or a similar governing body of any of our subsidiaries; • any amendment or modification to any of our organizational documents or those of our subsidiaries; • the adoption of a three-year strategic plan; • the adoption of an annual operating plan and budget, if there is no approved strategic plan; • any decision that would result in a variance of total annual expenditures, capital or expense, in excess of 20% from the approved three-year strategic plan; • any decision that would result in a variance in excess of the greater of $10 million or 20% of our profit or loss target in the strategic plan or annual operating plan; • the acquisition of stock or assets of another entity that exceeds 10% of our consolidated net revenue, net income or net assets; • the sale, lease, license or other disposition of any assets or business which exceeds 10% of our net revenue, net income or net assets; • the incurrence of any indebtedness by us or our subsidiaries for borrowed money in excess of $2 million; • any material change in the nature of our business or that of any of our subsidiaries; • any change in control of Idenix or any subsidiary; and • any dissolution or liquidation of Idenix or any subsidiary, or the commencement by us or any subsidiary of any action under applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or liquidation laws. Pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders’ agreement, dated July 27, 2004, among us, Novartis and certain of our stockholders, which we refer to as the stockholders’ agreement, we are obligated to use our reasonable best efforts to nominate for election as a director at least two designees of Novartis for so long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 35% of our voting stock and at least one designee of Novartis for so long as Novartis and its affiliates own at least 19.4% of our voting stock. Additionally, until such time as Novartis and its affiliates own less than 50% of our voting stock, Novartis’ consent is required for the selection and appointment of our chief financial officer. If in Novartis’ reasonable judgment our chief financial officer is not satisfactorily performing his duties, we are required to terminate the employment of our chief financial officer. Furthermore, under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, dated as of March 21, 2003, among us, Novartis and substantially all of our then existing stockholders, which we refer to as the stock purchase agreement, Novartis is required to make future contingent payments of up to $357 million to these stockholders if we achieve predetermined development milestones with respect to an HCV product candidate. As a result, in making determinations as to our annual operating plan and budget for the development of our product candidates, the interests of Novartis may be different than the interests of our other stockholders, and Novartis could exercise its approval rights in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. 37 Table of Contents Under the stockholders’ agreement, voting stock means our outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors, but does not include: • securities issued in connection with our acquisition of all of the capital stock or all or substantially all of the assets of another entity; and • shares of common stock issued upon exercise of stock options or stock awards pursuant to compensation and equity incentive plans. Notwithstanding the foregoing, voting stock includes up to 1,399,106 shares that were reserved as of May 8, 2003 for issuance under our 1998 equity incentive plan. Novartis has the ability to exercise substantial control over our strategic direction, our research and development focus and other material business decisions. We currently depend on one collaboration partner, Novartis, for substantially all our revenues and for support in commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and development of product candidates Novartis has licensed from us. If our development, license and commercialization agreement with Novartis terminates, our business and, in particular, the development of our product candidates and the commercialization of any products that we successfully develop would be significantly harmed. In May 2003, we received a $75 million license fee from Novartis in connection with the license to Novartis of our then HBV product candidates, telbivudine and valtorcitabine, under a development, license and commercialization agreement with Novartis, dated May 8, 2003, which we refer to as the development agreement. Telbivudine is being marketed in the United States under the tradename Tyzeka® and outside the United States under the tradename Sebivo®. Pursuant to the development agreement, as amended, Novartis also acquired options to license valopicitabine and additional product candidates from us. In March 2006, Novartis exercised its option and acquired a license to valopicitabine. In exchange we received a $25 million license fee from Novartis and the right to receive up to an additional $45 million in license fee payments from Novartis upon advancement of valopicitabine into phase III clinical trials. Assuming we continue to successfully develop and commercialize these product candidates, under the terms of the development agreement, we are entitled to receive reimbursement of expenses we incur in connection with the development of these product candidates and additional milestone payments from Novartis. Additionally, if any of the product candidates we have licensed to Novartis are approved for commercialization, we anticipate receiving proceeds in connection with the sales of such products. If Novartis exercises the option to license with respect to other product candidates that we discover, or in some cases, acquire, we are entitled to receive license fees and milestone payments as well as reimbursement of expenses we incur in the development of such product candidates in accordance with development plans mutually agreed with Novartis. Pursuant to the development agreement, we will co-promote and co-market with Novartis in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Spain, and Novartis will exclusively commercialize Sebivo® and other products, if any, we successfully develop in the rest of the world, including China, a major market for chronic hepatitis B therapeutics. In reliance on this arrangement, we have established marketing and sales capabilities, which when combined with the capabilities Novartis will provide, is anticipated to be adequate to allow us and Novartis to market and sell such products. We do not currently have and do not intend to establish marketing and sales capabilities in any territories outside of the countries where we expect to co-promote and co-market our products with Novartis. We are dependent upon Novartis for the commercialization of our products in the other territories. Novartis may terminate the development agreement in any country or with respect to any product or product candidate licensed under the development agreement for any reason on six months’ written notice. If the development agreement is terminated in whole or in part and we are unable to enter similar arrangements with other collaborators, our business would be materially adversely affected. 38 Table of Contents Novartis has the option to license from us product candidates we discover, or in some cases, acquire. If Novartis does not exercise its option with respect to a product candidate, our development, manufacture and/or commercialization of such product candidate may be substantially delayed or limited. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional funding. In addition to its license of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine, Novartis has the option under the development agreement to license our other product candidates. If Novartis elects not to exercise such option, we may be required to seek other collaboration arrangements to provide funds necessary to enable us to develop such product candidates. If we are not successful in efforts to enter into a collaboration arrangement with respect to a product candidate not licensed by Novartis, we may not have sufficient funds to develop such product candidate internally. As a result, our business would be adversely affected. In addition, the negotiation of a collaborative agreement is time consuming, and could, even if successful, delay the development, manufacture and/or commercialization of a product candidate and the terms of the collaboration agreements may not be favorable to us. If we breach any of the numerous representations and warranties we made to Novartis under the development agreement or the stock purchase agreement, Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us for damages it suffers as result of such breach. These amounts could be substantial. We have agreed to indemnify Novartis and its affiliates against losses suffered as a result of our breach of representations and warranties in the development agreement and the stock purchase agreement. Under the development agreement and stock purchase agreement, we made numerous representations and warranties to Novartis regarding our HCV and HBV product candidates, including representations regarding our ownership of and licensed rights to the inventions and discoveries relating to such product candidates. If one or more of our representations or warranties were not true at the time we made them to Novartis, we would be in breach of these agreements. In the event of a breach by us, Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, which include many of our directors and officers, for damages suffered by Novartis as a result of such breach. The amounts for which we could become liable to Novartis may be substantial. In May 2004, we entered into a settlement agreement with UAB and UABRF, relating to our ownership of our chief executive officer’s inventorship interest in certain of our patents and patent applications, including patent applications covering our HCV product candidates. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to make payments to UABRF, including an initial payment made in 2004 in the amount of $2 million, as well as regulatory milestone payments and payments relating to net sales of certain products. Novartis may seek to recover from us, and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, which include many of our officers and directors, the losses it suffers as a result of any breach of the representations and warranties we made relating to our HCV product candidates and may assert that such losses include the settlement payments. Novartis could also suffer losses in connection with any amounts we become obligated to pay relating to or under the terms of any license agreement, including the UAB license agreement, or other arrangements we may be required to enter into with UAB, Emory University and CNRS, each licensors under the UAB license agreement, to commercialize telbivudine. Novartis may seek to recover from us, and, under certain circumstances, us and those of our officers, directors and other stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, such losses and other losses it suffers as a result of any breach of the representations and warranties we made relating to our HBV product candidates. If we are required to rely upon the UAB license agreement to commercialize telbivudine, we will be obligated to make certain payments to UABRF and the other licensors. Such amounts would include payments in the aggregate amount of $1.3 million due upon achievement of regulatory milestones, a 6% royalty on annual sales up to $50 million and a 3% royalty on annual sales greater than $50 million made by us or an affiliate of ours. Additionally, if we sublicense our rights to a non-affiliate sublicensee, which is defined as any entity other than one which holds or controls at least 50% of our capital stock, or if Novartis’s ownership interest in us declines below 50% of our outstanding shares of capital stock, we could be obligated to pay to UABRF 30% of all royalties received 39 Table of Contents by us from sales by the sublicensee of telbivudine and 20% of all fees, milestone payments and other cash consideration we receive from the sublicensee with respect to telbivudine. If we materially breach our obligations or covenants arising under the development agreement or our master manufacturing and supply agreement with Novartis, we may lose our rights to commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® or to develop or commercialize our product candidates. We have significant obligations to Novartis under the development agreement and our master manufacturing and supply agreement, dated as of May 8, 2003, between us and Novartis. We refer to the master manufacturing and supply agreement as the supply agreement. The obligations to which we are subject include the responsibility for developing and, in some countries, co-promoting or co-marketing the products licensed to Novartis in accordance with plans and budgets subject to Novartis’ approval. The covenants and agreements we made when entering into the development agreement and supply agreement include covenants relating to payment of our required portion of development expenses under the development agreement, compliance with certain third-party license agreements, the conduct of our clinical studies and activities relating to the commercialization of any products that we successfully develop. If we materially breach one or both of these agreements and are unable within an agreed time period to cure such breach, the agreements may be terminated and we may be required to grant Novartis an exclusive license to develop, manufacture and/or sell such products. Although such a license would be subject to payment of a royalty by Novartis to be negotiated in good faith, we and Novartis have stipulated that no such payments would permit the breaching party to receive more than 90% of the net benefit it was entitled to receive before the agreements were terminated. Accordingly, if we materially breach our obligations under the development agreement or the supply agreement, we may lose our rights to develop our product candidates or commercialize our successfully developed products and receive lower payments from Novartis than we had anticipated. If we issue capital stock, in certain situations Novartis will be able to purchase shares at par value to maintain its percentage ownership in Idenix and, if that occurs, this could cause dilution. In addition, Novartis has the right, under specified circumstances, to purchase a pro rata portion of other shares that we may issue. Under the terms of the stockholders’ agreement, Novartis has the right to purchase at par value of $0.001 per share, such number of shares required to maintain its percentage ownership of our voting stock if we issue shares of capital stock in connection with the acquisition or in-licensing of technology through the issuance of up to 5% of our stock in any 24-month period. If Novartis elects to maintain its percentage ownership of our voting stock under the rights described above, Novartis will be buying such shares at a price, which is substantially below market value, which would cause dilution. This right of Novartis will remain in effect until the earlier of: • the date that Novartis and its affiliates own less than 19.4% of our voting stock; or • the date that Novartis becomes obligated under the stock purchase agreement to make the additional future contingent payments of $357 million to our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis in May 2003. In addition to the right to purchase shares of our common stock at par value as described above, Novartis has the right, subject to limited exceptions noted below, to purchase a pro rata portion of shares of capital stock that we issue. The price that Novartis pays for these securities would be the price that we offer such securities to third parties, including the price paid by persons who acquire shares of our capital stock pursuant to awards granted under stock compensation plans. Novartis’ right to purchase a pro rata portion does not include: • securities issuable in connection with any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend or recapitalization that we undertake that affects all holders of our common stock proportionately; • shares that Novartis has the right to purchase at par value, as described above; • shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options and other awards pursuant to our 1998 Equity Incentive Plan; and • securities issuable in connection with our acquisition of all the capital stock or all or substantially all of the assets of another entity. 40 Table of Contents Novartis’ right to purchase shares includes a right to purchase securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, provided that Novartis’ right to purchase stock in connection with options or other convertible securities issued to any of our directors, officers, employees or consultants pursuant to any stock compensation or equity incentive plan will not be triggered until the underlying equity security has been issued to the director, officer, employee or consultant. If Novartis terminates or fails to perform its obligations under the development agreement, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® or our product candidates licensed to Novartis and the development and commercialization of our other product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated. Under the development agreement, we expect to co-promote or co-market with Novartis in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Spain, Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and other products, if any, that Novartis has licensed from us which are successfully developed and approved for commercialization. Novartis will market and sell these drug products throughout the rest of the world. Additionally, we have entered into agreements that set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which Novartis will manufacture the U.S. commercial supply of Tyzeka® and we currently anticipate entering into similar agreements pursuant to which Novartis will manufacture the supply of Sebivo® intended for sale in all other parts of the world. As a result, we will depend upon the success of the efforts of Novartis to manufacture, market and sell Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and our other products, if any, that we successfully develop. However, we have limited control over the resources that Novartis may devote to such manufacturing and commercialization efforts and, if Novartis does not devote sufficient time and resources to such efforts, we may not realize the commercial benefits we anticipate, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, Novartis has the right to terminate the development agreement with respect to any product, product candidate or country with six months written notice to us. If Novartis were to breach or terminate this agreement with us, the development or commercialization of the affected product candidate or product could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient resources or capabilities, financial or otherwise, to continue development and commercialization of the product candidate, and we may not be successful in entering into a collaboration with another third party. Novartis has the right under certain circumstances to market and sell products that compete with the product candidates and products that we license to it, and any competition by Novartis could have a material adverse effect on our business. Novartis has agreed that, except as set forth in the development agreement, it will not market, sell or promote certain competitive products except that: • this agreement not to compete extends only until May 2008; • as to any country, the agreement not to compete would terminate if Novartis terminates the development agreement with respect to that country; and • if Novartis wishes to market, sell, promote or license a competitive product, it is required to inform us of the competitive product opportunity and, at our election, enter into good faith negotiations with us concerning such opportunity. If we either do not elect to enter into negotiations with respect to such opportunity or are unable to reach agreement within a specified period, Novartis would be free to proceed with its plans with respect to such competing product. Accordingly, Novartis may under certain circumstances market, sell, promote or license competitive products. Novartis has significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and is better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. In addition, Novartis has more extensive experience in preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In the event that Novartis competes with us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents Factors Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties Because we have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we may seek to enter into additional arrangements with third parties. We may not be successful in establishing these relationships or, if established, the relationship may not be successful. Currently, we have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Although we have recently established an internal sales force and expanded our marketing capabilities in the United States and are building an internal sales force and marketing capabilities in those European countries where we expect to co-promote and co-market Sebivo® and other products we may successfully develop, we may elect to further augment our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities through arrangements with third parties. We may not be successful in entering into any such arrangements in time for the anticipated launch of Sebivo® in jurisdictions outside the United States, if approved, and, if entered into, the terms of any such arrangements may not be favorable. We cannot be assured that any third party would devote the necessary time or attention to sell, market or distribute our products. If these arrangements are unsuccessful, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our products. If we seek to enter into collaboration agreements for any product candidates other than those licensed to Novartis and we are not successful in establishing such collaborations, we may not be able to continue development of those product candidates. Our drug development programs and product commercialization efforts will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses to be incurred in connection with these activities. While we have entered into the development agreement with Novartis, we may seek to enter into additional collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization of product candidates that Novartis does not license. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements and the terms of the collaboration agreements, if any, may not be favorable to us. If we are not successful in our efforts to enter into a collaboration arrangement with respect to a product candidate, we may not have sufficient funds to develop this or any other product candidate internally. If we do not have sufficient funds to develop our product candidates, we will not be able to bring these product candidates to market and generate revenue. As a result, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude the development, manufacture and/or commercialization of a product candidate and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: • we may be required to expend our own funds to advance the product candidate to commercialization; • revenue from product sales could be delayed; or • we may elect not to develop or commercialize the product candidate. If any collaborative partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated. We have entered into the development agreement with Novartis and we may enter into additional collaborative arrangements in the future. If collaborative partners do not devote sufficient time and resources to any collaboration arrangement with us, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if Novartis or future collaboration partners were to breach or terminate their arrangements with us, the development and commercialization of the affected product candidate or product could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of such product candidate or product. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We work with chemists and biologists at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. Telbivudine, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine were discovered with the research and development assistance of these chemists and biologists. Many of the scientists who have contributed to the discovery 42 Table of Contents and development of our product candidates are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us. Although our scientific advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. We depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture products for us. If in the future we manufacture any of our products, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish these capabilities. We have limited manufacturing experience and have the capability to manufacture only small quantities of compounds required in preclinical studies for our product candidates. We do not have, and do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material for our clinical trials or at commercial scale. To develop our product candidates, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize any products, we need to contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing facilities and capabilities. Under the supply agreement, Novartis has agreed to manufacture or have manufactured for us the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, of product candidates that we license to Novartis for our clinical supply requirements and may manufacture API for commercial supply. Pursuant to the manufacturing agreement and packaging agreement, Novartis will manufacture the commercial supply of Tyzeka®, which is intended for sale in the United States. If the manufacturing arrangements we have established with Novartis relating to the manufacture of commercial supply intended for sale in the United States were to terminate or we are unable to successfully negotiate with Novartis an arrangement relating to the manufacture of commercial supply of Sebivo® intended for sale in countries outside the United States, the commercialization of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® could be interrupted or delayed, which would have an adverse affect on our business. In addition, any change in our manufacturers could be costly because the commercial terms of any such arrangement could be less favorable than the commercial terms we negotiate with Novartis. Factors Related to Patents and Licenses If we are unable to adequately protect our patents and licenses related to our product candidates, or if we infringe the rights of others, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Tyzeka®/Sebivo® or other products, if any, that we successfully develop. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for any products we successfully develop. The patents and patent applications in our patent portfolio are either owned by us, exclusively licensed to us, or co-owned by us and others and exclusively licensed to us. Our ability to protect any products we successfully develop from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for any products we successfully develop or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have been issued or will be issued, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be, valid or enforceable, or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates, by preventing the patentability of our product candidates to us or our licensors or co-owners, or by covering the same or similar technologies that may invalidate our patents, limit the scope of our future patent claims or adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. For example, patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which we refer to as the U.S. Patent Office, for the entire time prior to issuance of a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or 43 Table of Contents the first to file, patent applications on our product candidates or for their use as antiviral drugs. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. Since our HBV product, telbivudine, was a known compound before the filing of our patent applications covering the use of this product candidate to treat HBV infection, we cannot obtain patent protection on telbivudine itself. As a result, we are limited to relying upon patents granted on the method of using telbivudine as a medical therapy for the treatment of hepatitis B infection. Our HBV product candidate, valtorcitabine, is a prodrug of the L-nucleoside ß-L-2’-deoxycytidine, or LdC, which is converted into biologically active LdC in the body. The U.S. Patent Office has issued to us a patent on valtorcitabine itself, as well as claims on pharmaceutical compositions that include valtorcitabine. Claims to the method to treat HBV using valtorcitabine are pending. We will not, however, be able to obtain patent protection on the biologically active form of LdC itself, because it was a known compound at the time the patent applications covering LdC were filed. Instead, our patent protection will be limited to patents covering the method of using LdC in medical therapy for the treatment of HBV infection. We are aware of an issued U.S. patent with claims directed to a broad genus of compounds, which may be construed to include valtorcitabine. We believe those claims to be invalid as a result of prior art in existence at the time those claims were filed. We would assert an invalidity defense against any such claims were they to be asserted against us. However, there is no assurance that these claims would be found to be invalid; in which case, we would need to obtain a license to these patent rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, on an exclusive basis or at all. Pursuant to the UAB license agreement, we were granted an exclusive license to the rights that the 1998 licensors have to a 1995 U.S. patent application and progeny thereof and counterpart patent applications in Europe, Canada, Japan and Australia that cover the use of certain synthetic nucleosides for the treatment of HBV infection. In February 2006, UABRF notified us that it and Emory University were asserting a claim that, as a result of the filing of a continuation patent application in July 2005 by UABRF, the UAB license agreement covers our telbivudine technology. UABRF contended that we are obligated to pay the 1998 licensors an aggregate of $15.3 million comprised of 20% of the $75 million license fee we received from Novartis in May 2003 in connection with the license of our HBV product candidates and a $0.3 million payment in connection with the submission to the FDA of the IND pursuant to which we conducted clinical trials of telbivudine. We disagree with UABRF’s contentions and have advised UABRF and Emory University that we will utilize the dispute resolution procedures set forth in the UAB license agreement for resolution of this dispute. Under the terms of that agreement, if resolution cannot be achieved through negotiations between the parties or mediation, it must be decided by binding arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration Association before a panel of three arbitrators. If it is determined that the UAB license agreement does cover our use of telbivudine to treat HBV, we will be obligated to make payments to the 1998 licensors in the amounts and manner specified in the UAB license agreement. While we dispute the demands made by UABRF, even if liability were found to exist, UABRF’s claims, in addition to those described above would likely include payments in the aggregate amount of $1.0 million due upon achievement of regulatory milestones, a 6% royalty on annual sales up to $50 million and a 3% royalty on annual sales greater than $50 million made by us or an affiliate of ours. Additionally, if we sublicense our rights to any entity other than one which holds or controls at least 50% of our capital stock, or if Novartis’ ownership interest in us declines below 50% of our outstanding shares of capital stock, UABRF would likely contend that we would obligated to pay to the 1998 licensors 30% of all royalties received on sales by the sublicensee of telbivudine and 20% of all fees, milestone payments and other cash consideration received from the sublicensee with respect to telbivudine. 44 Table of Contents If we fail to perform our material obligations under the UAB license agreement, UABRF, acting for the 1998 licensors, may attempt to terminate the UAB license agreement or render the license to us non-exclusive. We do not believe that we are in default of any of the material obligations to which we are subject under the UAB license agreement. Any attempt to terminate the agreement would be subject to binding arbitration. In the event UABRF is successful in terminating the license agreement as a result of a breach by us after a period of arbitration, and the 1998 licensors obtain a valid enforceable claim that generally covers the use of telbivudine to treat hepatitis B, it would be necessary for us to obtain another license from the 1998 licensors. Such license may not be available to us on reasonable terms, on an exclusive basis or at all. This could materially adversely affect or preclude our ability to commercialize telbivudine. If the 1998 licensors were instead to render the UAB license agreement to us non-exclusive, we would not be prohibited from using telbivudine to treat hepatitis B, but a non-exclusive license could be granted to one or more of our competitors by one or more of the 1998 licensors. In the event that the 1998 licensors exclusively or non-exclusively license any claims covering the use of telbivudine to treat HBV to a competitor, we believe that such a competitor would have to overcome substantial legal and commercial hurdles to successfully commercialize the product. For example, we have five U.S. patents covering the use of telbivudine to treat HBV, which we believe a competitor would infringe if it sought to commercialize telbivudine. Our patent applications are also pending in Europe, Australia, Canada, and Japan, as well as numerous other countries. Additionally, since we are the first company that is taking telbivudine through clinical trials, we expect to benefit from a five-year period of commercialization exclusivity in the United States that is granted by the FDA during which it will refuse to grant marketing approval to any competitor to sell telbivudine for the treatment of HBV. We may also receive regulatory exclusivity periods in Europe and in other countries. If it is determined that the UAB license agreement between us and UABRF does cover our use of telbivudine to treat HBV, or we must otherwise rely upon a license agreement granted by the 1998 licensors to commercialize telbivudine, we may be in breach of certain of the representations and warranties we made to Novartis under the development agreement and the stock purchase agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the development agreement and the stock purchase agreement, if there is a breach Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us, and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, for the losses Novartis incurs as a result of the breach. The amounts for which we could be liable to Novartis may be substantial. In January 2007, the Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama and related entities filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama Southern Division against us, CNRS and the University of Montpellier. The complaint alleges that a former employee of UAB is a co-inventor of certain patents related to the use of ß-L-2’-deoxy-nucleosides for the treatment of HBV assigned to one or more of us, CNRS and the University of Montpellier and which cover the use of Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, our product for the treatment of HBV. If the Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama and related entities are successful in the lawsuit against us, CNRS and the University of Montpellier, then UAB could obtain rights in certain patents related to the use of ß-L-2’-deoxy-nucleosides for the treatment of HBV currently assigned to one or more of us, CNRS and the University of Montpellier and which cover the use of telbivudine, our product for the treatment of HBV. The University of Alabama has included a demand for damages under various theories in its complaint, but did not specify the amount of damages that it alleges to have been incurred. We have not yet been able to determine whether the University of Alabama would be entitled to damages or the extent thereof if it were successful on its substantive claims. Our initial HCV clinical product candidate, valopicitabine, is a prodrug of the active molecule NM107, which is converted into biologically active NM107 in the body. We believe that valopicitabine may be a new compound, and therefore we are attempting to obtain patent protection on valopicitabine itself, as well as a method to treat HCV infection with valopicitabine. NM107 was a known compound at the time that the patent applications covering the use of this active form of valopicitabine to treat HCV infection were filed. We have three issued U.S. patents claiming methods of treatment using NM107, one directed to treating HCV infection specifically and two directed to treating flavivirus and pestivirus infection. We previously received a notice of allowance from the U.S. Patent Office for a patent covering the compound valopicitabine, and added a new inventor and assignee to this patent application. Subsequently, we received a new notice of allowance. We cannot, however, obtain patent protection on the compound NM107. 45 Table of Contents Despite the fact that NM107 is a known compound, we are aware that a number of companies have filed patent applications attempting to cover NM107 specifically as a compound, as well as valopicitabine, as members of broad classes of compounds. Companies have also filed patent applications covering the use of NM107, specifically, and valopicitabine, generically, to treat HCV infection, or infection by any member of the Flaviviridae virus family to which the HCV virus belongs. These companies include Merck & Co., Inc. together with Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ribapharm, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Genelabs Technologies, Inc. and Biota, Inc., a subsidiary of Biota Holdings Ltd., or Biota. We believe that we were the first to file patent applications covering the use of these product candidates to treat HCV infection. Because patents in countries outside the United States are awarded to the first to file a patent application covering an invention, we believe that we are entitled to patent protection in these countries. Notwithstanding this, a foreign country may grant patent rights covering our product candidates to one or more other companies, either because it is not aware of our patent filings or because the country does not interpret our patent filing as a bar to issuance of a patent to the other company in that country. If that occurs, we may need to challenge the third-party patent to establish our proprietary rights, and if we do not or are not successful, we will need to obtain a license that may not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms. In the United States, a patent is awarded to the first to invent the subject matter. The U.S. Patent Office could initiate an interference between us and Merck/Isis, Ribapharm, Genelabs, Biota or another company to determine the priority of invention of the use of these compounds to treat HCV infection. If such an interference is initiated and it is determined that we were not the first to invent the use of these compounds in methods for treating HCV or other viral infection under U.S. law, we would need to obtain a license that may not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms. A number of companies have filed patent applications and have obtained patents covering general methods for the treatment of HBV, HCV and HIV infections that could materially affect our ability to develop and sell Tyzeka®/Sebivo®, valtorcitabine and valopicitabine, as well as other product candidates we may develop in the future. For example, we are aware that Chiron Corporation, now a subsidiary of Novartis, and Apath, LLC have obtained broad patents covering HCV proteins, nucleic acids, diagnostics and drug screens. If we need to use these patented materials or methods to develop valopicitabine or any other HCV product candidates and the materials or methods fall outside certain safe harbors in the laws governing patent infringement, we will need to buy these products from a licensee of the company authorized to sell such products or we will require a license from one or more companies, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. This could materially affect or preclude our ability to develop and sell our HCV product candidate. If we find that any product candidates we are developing should be used in combination with a product covered by a patent held by another company or institution, and that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement or inducement of infringement of the third-party patents covering the product recommended for co-administration with our product. In that case, we may be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to provide the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation and disputes related to intellectual property matters occur frequently in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are unsuccessful in litigation concerning patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us, we may not be able to protect our products from competition or we may be precluded from selling our products. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing product candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Such litigation could take place in the United States in a federal court or in the U.S. Patent Office. The litigation could also take place in a foreign country, in either the court or the patent office of that country. Our success will depend in part on our ability to uphold and enforce patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us, which cover products we successfully develop. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications could result in adverse decisions regarding: • ownership of patents and patent applications; • the patentability of our inventions relating to our product candidates; and/or 46 Table of Contents • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our product candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial cost and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In May 2004, we and our chief executive officer, Dr. Sommadossi, entered into a settlement agreement with UAB and UABRF resolving a dispute regarding ownership of inventions and discoveries made by Dr. Sommadossi during the period from November 1999 to November 2002, at which time Dr. Sommadossi was on sabbatical and then unpaid leave from his position at UAB. The patent applications we filed with respect to such inventions and discoveries include the patent applications covering valopicitabine, our HCV product candidate. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to make a $2 million initial payment to UABRF, as well as other potential contingent payments based upon the commercial launch of products discovered or invented by Dr. Sommadossi during his sabbatical and unpaid leave. In addition, UAB and UABRF have each agreed that neither of them has any right, title or ownership interest in these inventions and discoveries. Under the development agreement and stock purchase agreement, we made numerous representations and warranties to Novartis regarding valopicitabine and our HCV program, including representations regarding our ownership of the inventions and discoveries. If one or more of our representations or warranties were not true at the time we made them to Novartis, we would be in breach of these agreements. In the event of a breach by us, Novartis has the right to seek indemnification from us and, under certain circumstances, us and our stockholders who sold shares to Novartis, which include many of our directors and officers, for damages suffered by Novartis as a result of such breach. The amounts for which we could be liable to Novartis may be substantial. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others. If it is determined that we do infringe a patent right of another, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we are not successful in infringement litigation and we do not license or develop non-infringing technology, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. To protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If any of our agreements that grant us the exclusive right to make, use and sell Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and our product candidates are terminated, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates. We, together with Novartis, have entered into an amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier, co-owners of the patents and patent applications covering Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and valtorcitabine. This agreement covers both the cooperative research program and the terms of our exclusive right to exploit the results of the cooperative research, including Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and valtorcitabine. The cooperative research program with CNRS and the University of Montpellier ended in December 2006. We, together with Novartis, have also entered into two agreements with the Universita degli Studi di Cagliari, which we refer to as the 47 Table of Contents University of Cagliari, the co-owner of the patents and patent applications covering our HCV product candidates and certain HIV preclinical product candidates. One agreement with the University of Cagliari covers our cooperative research program and the other agreement is an exclusive license to develop and sell the jointly created HCV and HIV product candidates. Under the amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and the license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari, we obtained from our co-owners the exclusive right to exploit these product candidates. Subject to certain rights afforded to Novartis, these agreements can be terminated by either party in circumstances such as the occurrence of an uncured breach by the non-terminating party. The termination of our rights under the agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier or the license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari would have a material adverse effect on our business and could prevent us from developing a product candidate or selling a product. In addition, these agreements provide that we pay the costs of patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement. These costs could be substantial. Our inability or failure to pay these costs could result in the termination of the agreements or certain rights under them. Under our amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and our license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari, we and Novartis have the right to exploit and license our co-owned product candidates without the permission of the co-owners. However, our agreements with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and with the University of Cagliari are currently governed by, and will be interpreted and enforced under, French and Italian law, respectively, which are different in substantial respects from U.S. law, and which may be unfavorable to us in material respects. Under French law, co-owners of intellectual property cannot exploit, assign or license their individual rights without the permission of the co-owners. Similarly, under Italian law, co-owners of intellectual property cannot exploit or license their individual rights without the permission of the co-owners. Accordingly, if our agreements with the University of Cagliari terminate, we may not be able to exploit, license or otherwise convey to Novartis or other third parties our rights in our product candidates for a desired commercial purpose without the consent of the co-owner, which could materially affect our business and prevent us from developing our product candidates and selling our products. Under U.S. law, a co-owner has the right to prevent the other co-owner from suing infringers by refusing to join voluntarily in a suit to enforce a patent. Our amended and restated agreement with CNRS and the University of Montpellier and our license agreement, as amended, with the University of Cagliari provide that such parties will cooperate to enforce our jointly owned patents on our product candidates. If these agreements terminate or their cooperation is not given or is withdrawn, or they refuse to join in litigation that requires their participation, we may not be able to enforce these patent rights or protect our markets. If our cooperative research agreement with the University of Cagliari is terminated, we may be unable to utilize research results arising out of that work prior to the termination. Our cooperative research agreement with the University of Cagliari, as amended, grants us the exclusive right to directly or indirectly use or license to Novartis or other third parties the results of research obtained from the cooperative effort, in exchange for a fixed royalty. If the cooperative research agreement is terminated, our exclusive right to use the research results will also terminate, unless those rights are also granted under a separate license agreement. Our cooperative agreement with the University of Cagliari currently expires in January 2011 and can only be renewed by the written consent of both parties. If the agreement is not renewed, there is no guarantee that the University of Cagliari will agree to transfer rights to any of the research results into a separate license agreement on termination of the research program, or that it will agree to do so on reasonable commercial terms. If we are not able to obtain a license to research results in the event of a termination of the cooperative research agreement, we will be unable to develop the research results. Factors Related to Our Common Stock Sales of additional shares of our common stock could result in dilution to existing stockholders and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of common stock upon exercise 48 Table of Contents of outstanding options could be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. As of March 1, 2007, we had 56,153,393 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, together with outstanding options to purchase approximately 4,467,572 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $13.05 per share. Novartis and other holders of an aggregate of approximately 37,155,772 shares of common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Fluctuation of our quarterly results may cause our stock price to decline, resulting in losses to you. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which are not within our control, could subject our operating results and stock price to volatility, including: • realization of license fees and achievement of milestones under our development agreement with Novartis and, to the extent applicable, other licensing and collaborative agreements; • reductions in proceeds associated with Novartis’ right to maintain its percentage ownership of our voting stock when we issue shares at a price below fair market value; • adverse developments regarding the safety and efficacy of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® or our product candidates; • the results of ongoing and planned clinical trials of our product candidates; • developments in the market with respect to competing products or more generally the treatment of HBV, HCV or HIV; • the results of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our product candidates; • the timing and success of the launch of Tyzeka®/Sebivo® and launches of other products, if any, we successfully develop; • the initiation or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our assets; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures. Due to the possibility of significant fluctuations, we do not believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results will necessarily be indicative of our future operating performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline, resulting in losses to you. An investment in our common stock may decline in value as a result of announcements of business developments by us or our competitors. The market price of our common stock is subject to substantial volatility as a result of announcements by us or other companies in our industry. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may not be able to sell their shares of common stock at or above the price at which they purchased such stock. Announcements which may subject the price of our common stock to substantial volatility include announcements regarding: • our collaboration with Novartis; • the results of discovery, preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or our competitors; • the acquisition of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; • the development of new technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates or products or those of our competitors, including those relating to our clinical trials, marketing authorizations, pricing and reimbursement; 49 Table of Contents • the timing and success of launches of any product we successfully develop, including the launch of Tyzeka® in the United States and the planned launch of Sebivo® outside the United States; • the market acceptance of any products we successfully develop; • the initiation or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our assets; and • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors. In addition, if we fail to reach an important research, development or commercialization milestone or result by a publicly expected deadline, even if by only a small margin, there could be a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as we approach the announcement of important clinical data or other significant information and as we announce such results and information, we expect the price of our common stock to be particularly volatile, and negative results would have a substantial negative impact on the price of our common stock. We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. The stock market frequently experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of companies in the biotechnology industry have been extremely volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 