1A. Risk Factors under the caption “Risks of Our Tax Loss Carry Forwards.” Employees As of December 31, 2007, we employed a total of 107 persons. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. As we acquire additional businesses, our employee base may increase. General Corporate Matters Our executive offices are located at 1330 Avenue of the Americas, 34th Floor, New York, NY 10019. Our telephone number is (212) 277-1100 and our fax number is (212) 277-1160. Availability of Information We maintain a website at www.nexcenbrands.com, which provides a wide variety of information on each of our brands. You may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. For further information concerning the SEC’s Public Reference Room, you may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Some of this information may also be accessed on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also maintain, in some cases through our licensees, sites for each of the Company's brands and operations, www.theathletesfoot.com, www.billblass.com, www.greatamericancookies.com, www.maggiemoos.com, www.marbleslab.com, www.pretzeltime.com, www.pretzelmaker.com, www.shoeboxny.com, and www.waverly.com. We are providing the address of our internet website solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the internet address to be an active links, and the contents of these websites are not incorporated into, and do not constitute a part of, this Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks along with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. 11 Risks of Our Business Acquisitions involve numerous risks that we may not be able to address or overcome and that may negatively affect our business and financial results. We have built our brand management and franchising business through acquisitions. Our recent acquisitions may not deliver the value we paid or will pay for them. Excessive expenses may result if we do not successfully integrate them, or if the costs and management resources we expend in connection with the integrations exceed our expectations. We expect that our recent acquisitions, and any acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances that we may pursue in the future, will have a continuing, significant impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of the companies that we acquired or may in the future acquire may be less than the amount we paid or will pay, and our financial results may be adversely affected if we fail to realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, including various synergies and economies of scope and scale. Risks associated with our past and future acquisitions include, among others: · overpaying for acquired assets or businesses; · being unable to license, market or otherwise exploit IP that we acquire on anticipated terms or at all; · negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition-related expenses, amortization or impairment of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill; · diversion of management's attention from management of day-to-day operational issues; · failing to maintain focus on, or ceasing to execute, core strategies and business plans as our brand portfolio grows and becomes more diversified; · failing to achieve synergies across our diverse brand portfolio; · failing to acquire or hire additional successful managers, or being unable to retain critical acquired managers; · potential adverse effects of a new acquisition on an existing business or business relationship; · failing to integrate acquired businesses with our existing businesses due to unanticipated costs and difficulties, which may disrupt our existing businesses or delay or diminish our ability to realize financial and operational benefits from those acquisitions; and · underlying risks of the businesses that we acquire, which may differ from one acquisition to the next, including those related to entering new lines of business or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. We may be unable to increase profitability unless we can identify and acquire IP and IP-centric businesses on favorable terms. Our ability to achieve our business objective of increasing profitability may depend on our ability to identify and acquire suitable acquisitions on favorable terms, so that we can increase our revenues and our operating income. If we are unable to complete additional acquisitions on favorable terms, the expenses associated with our brand management and franchising business may be disproportionate to our revenues. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete any future acquisitions or that such transactions, if completed, will contribute positively to our operations and financial results and condition. Our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional IP assets and business will depend on the availability of capital to complete acquisitions. We financed our acquisitions of The Athlete’s Foot, Bill Blass, Great American Cookies, MaggieMoo’s, Marble Slab, Pretzel Time, Pretzelmaker, and Waverly with a combination of cash and equity. We intend to finance many of our future IP acquisitions through a combination of available cash, bank or other institutional financing, and issuances of equity and possibly debt securities. As of March 14, 2008, we had approximately $19 million of cash on hand (excluding restricted cash) after borrowing $181 million under the BTMU Credit Facility, which we entered into on March 12, 2007 and which was amended on January 29, 2008 to increase the maximum amount of borrowing that may be outstanding thereunder at any one time from $150 million to $181 million. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure borrowings in the future to fund acquisitions, either on terms that we consider reasonable or at all. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we face limitations on the number of shares of equity that we can issue without triggering limitations on our future ability to use our substantial accumulated tax loss carry forwards. Under certain circumstances, these limitations (if triggered) could significantly or, under certain circumstances, totally reduce the future value of our tax loss carry forwards (assuming we are able to generate taxable income that would benefit from the use of the tax loss carry forwards). 12 As a result of these factors, we may lack access to sufficient capital to complete acquisitions that we identify and want to complete. In such a case, our inability to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. We are dependent upon our president and chief executive officer, Robert W. D’Loren. If we lose Mr. D’Loren’s services, we may not be able to successfully implement our brand management and franchising business strategy. Although we have established a corporate structure and hired personnel with expertise in franchise and brand management, the successful implementation of our business strategy remains dependent upon the efforts of Mr. D’Loren, our president and chief executive officer. Mr. D’Loren is the person primarily responsible for conceiving of and implementing our brand management and franchising business strategy. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. D’Loren that runs through June 2009, there is no guarantee that he will remain employed by us throughout the term or thereafter. If he ceases to work with us, or if his services are reduced, we will need to identify and hire other qualified executives, and we may not be successful in finding or hiring adequate replacements. This could impede our ability to fully implement our brand management and franchising business strategy, which would harm our business and prospects. Any failure to meet our debt obligations would adversely affect our business and financial condition. On March 12, 2007, we entered into a $150 million master loan agreement with BTMU Capital Corporation (“BTMU”). In connection with the financing of our acquisition of Great American Cookies on January 29, 2008, we increased the maximum amount of borrowing that may be outstanding at any one time from $150 million to $181 million and modified certain defined terms used in the original loan documentation and related documents to take into account the Company’s acquisition of real estate assets in the Great American Cookies transaction. With the exception of these changes, the increase to the BTMU Credit Facility is substantially on the same terms as the original credit facility. As of March 14, 2008, we have approximately $179 million of long-term debt outstanding under the master loan agreement with BTMU. Interest rates for our master loan agreement vary based upon changes in the debt service coverage ratio, which is the outstanding balance compared to operating revenue of the underlying collateral, and based changes in the London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR"). Our master loan agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customary for senior secured credit facilities, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, fundamental changes, loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, common stock repurchases, dividends and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries and sale leaseback transactions. Although these covenants are limited to the collateral-holding entities and do not apply to the Company itself, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under the indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These restrictions may also limit our ability to operate our businesses and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. As a result of our indebtedness, a substantial portion of cash flow from our operations is needed to pay principal and interest. This reduces the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. Although the master loan agreement does not restrict our ability to obtain future financings, it may limit our ability to do so, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. Our business depends on market acceptance of our brands in highly competitive markets. Continued market acceptance of our brands is critical to our future success and subject to great uncertainty. The retail franchising, consumer branded products and QSR franchising business segments in which we operate and on which we expect to focus our acquisition activities are extremely competitive, both in the United States and overseas. Accordingly, we and our current and future licensees, franchisees and other business partners face and will face intense and substantial competition with respect to marketing and expanding products and services under our brands. As a result, we may not be able to attract licensees, franchisees and other business partners on favorable terms or at all. In addition, licensees, franchisees and other third parties with whom we deal may not be successful in selling products and services that make use of our brands. They (and we) also may not be able to expand the distribution of such products and services into new markets. 13 In general, competitive factors include quality, price, style, name recognition and service. In addition, the presence in the marketplace of short-lived “fads” and the limited availability of shelf space can affect competition for many consumer products. Changes in consumer tastes, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing products and outlets also can affect market results. Competing trademarks and brands may have the backing of companies with greater financial, distribution, marketing, capital and other resources than we or our licensees and other business partners do. This may increase the obstacles that we and they face in competing successfully. Among other things, we may have to spend more on advertising and marketing or may need to reduce the amounts that we charge licensees and other business partners. This could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Deterioration of general economic conditions and declines in consumer spending can negatively affect our business. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Market and general economic conditions affect the level of discretionary spending on the merchandise we, our licensees and our franchisees offer, including general business conditions, interest rates, taxation, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Any unfavorable occurrences in these economic conditions on a local, regional, national or multi-national level may adversely affect our growth, sales and profitability. Given the significance of our domestic business, the likely negative impact of a recession in the general economy in the United States or a general decline in domestic consumer spending may not be wholly mitigated by our business outside the United States. Many of our franchisees’ stores are located in shopping malls, particularly in the United States. Our franchisees derive revenue, in part, from the high volume of traffic in these malls. The inability of mall "anchor" tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our franchised stores or the decline in popularity of malls as shopping destinations could reduce our licensing and franchising revenue dependent on sales volume. Because we rely on unaffiliated third parties to market, distribute, sell and in some cases design products and services using our brands under license, the success of our business may depend upon various factors that are beyond our control. Substantially all of our earnings come from royalties generated from licensees, franchisees and similar contractual relationships involving our IP. Licensees, franchisees and other business partners are independent operators, and we do not exercise day-to-day control over any of them. As a result, our business faces a number of risks, including the following: · Products using our IP are generally manufactured by third party licensees, either directly or through third-party manufacturers on a subcontract basis. All manufacturers have limited production capacity, and the ones with whom we work (directly or indirectly) may not, in all instances, be able to satisfy manufacturing requirements for our (and our licensees’) products. · We provide limited training and support to franchisees. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. · While we will try to ensure that our licensees and other business partners maintain a high quality of products and services that use our IP, they may take actions that adversely affect the value of our IP or our business reputation. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our franchisees operate in over 50 countries. In addition, the brands and other IP assets that we own and manage are currently used, and in the future are expected to be used, for products and services that will be advertised and sold in many different countries. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our IP business outside the United States, which could expose us to greater risks. The risks associated with our IP business outside the United States include: · Political and economic instability or civil unrest; · Armed conflict, natural disasters or terrorism; · Health concerns or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; · Multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that differ between jurisdictions; 14 · Changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements effecting trade and investment; · Differences from one country to the next in legal protections applicable to IP assets, including trademarks and similar assets, enforcement of such protections and remedies available for infringements; · Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; and · Adverse consequences from changes in tax laws. The effects of these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse impact on our brand management and franchising business. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could decrease the value of those assets. We own a combination of trademarks, copyrights, franchise rights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights. The success of our brand management and franchising business will depend in part on our ability to license our intellectual property for use by third parties in selling various products and services and developing brand and product awareness in new geographic and product markets. Although much of our intellectual property is protected by registration or other legal rules in the United States, in some cases registration may not be in place or available, particularly outside of the United States. In some cases, third parties may be using similar trademarks or other intellectual property in certain countries, and we may not be able to use certain of our intellectual property in those countries. We monitor on an ongoing basis unauthorized use and filings for registrations that conflict with our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, copyright, know-how, trade secrets laws and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that such measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that actions taken in the past, or that we take in the future, to establish and protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent infringement by others, or prevent a loss of revenue or other damages. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may be required to spend significant time and money on protecting or defending our intellectual property rights. We may from time to time be required to institute litigation to enforce legal protections that we believe apply to our intellectual property, including to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects, regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. In addition, to the extent that any of our intellectual property is deemed to violate the proprietary rights of others, we could be prevented from using it, which could cause a termination of licensing and other commercial arrangements. This would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. We also could be required to defend litigation brought against us, which can be costly and time-consuming. It could also result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us. The acquisition of IP assets and IP-centric businesses resulted in our recording a material amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are required to write down a portion of this goodwill and other intangible assets, our financial results would be adversely affected. As a result of our acquisition strategy, we recorded a material amount of good will and other identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives on our balance sheet. We will not amortize goodwill. We may not be able to realize the full fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives and goodwill from our acquisitions. We will evaluate on at least an annual basis whether all or a portion of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill and intangible assets may be impaired. Any write-down of intangible assets or goodwill resulting from future periodic evaluations would decrease our net income, and those decreases could be material. Material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting of the businesses we acquire could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. The integration of acquisitions includes ensuring that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting effectively apply to and address the operations of newly acquired businesses. While we have made every effort to thoroughly understand any acquired entity’s business processes, our planning for proper integration into our company can give no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our controls and procedures. As a result, we may be required to change our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting to accommodate newly acquired operations, and we may also be required to remediate historic weaknesses or deficiencies at acquired businesses. Our review and evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls of the companies we have acquired may take time and require additional expense, and if they are not effective on a timely basis could adversely affect our business and the market’s perception of our company. 15 Risks of Our Acquisition Strategy Competition may negatively affect our ability to complete suitable acquisitions. We face competition for acquisitions. Existing and future competitors may be larger than us and have access to greater financial and other resources. As a result, acquisitions may become more expensive, and we may face greater difficulty in identifying suitable acquisition candidates on terms that we believe will make sense. If we are unable to expand our business by completing acquisitions on favorable terms, our financial results may be negatively affected. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could reduce the market price of our common stock and, among other things, make it more expensive and difficult for us to complete acquisitions using our stock as consideration. Since we announced the acquisition of UCC and the hiring of Mr. D’Loren, the trading price of our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could change significantly over short periods of time in response to actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements by us or by third parties on whom we rely or against whom we compete, factors affecting the markets in which we do business or changes in national or regional economic conditions. The market price of our common stock also could be reduced by general market price declines or market volatility in the future or future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies against whom we compete or companies in the industries in which our licensees compete. If our stock price declines, sellers of IP and IP-centric businesses may be less willing to accept shares of our common stock as consideration for a portion of future acquisitions. In addition, if sellers are willing to accept shares of our common stock, we may be required to issue additional shares to complete acquisitions, which would make acquisitions more dilutive to our stockholders. The volatility in the price of our common stock may also limit our ability to pursue equity sales as a financing strategy. Shares eligible for future resale by our current stockholders may depress our share price. We issued a large number of shares of our common stock and securities convertible into common stock in connection with the acquisitions of UCC, The Athlete’s Foot, Bill Blass, MaggieMoo’s, Waverly, Pretzel Time, Pretzelmaker and Great American Cookies. We have agreed to register for public resale substantially all of the shares issued in these acquisitions. In registration statements filed with the SEC on September 15, 2006 and May 4, 2007, we registered the resale of 10,728,191 shares of our common stock related to the UCC, The Athlete’s Foot, Bill Blass, MaggieMoo’s, and Waverly acquisitions. We also have a registration statement pending with the SEC to register the resale of 3,697,671 shares of our common stock related to the Pretzel Time and Pretzelmaker acquisitions and an earn-out related to the UCC acquisition and we are required under the terms of our acquisition of Great American Cookies to register the resale of an additional 1,399,290 shares of our common stock. Additionally, we may issue shares of our common stock in future acquisitions and become obligated to register additional shares. Although some of the shares that we registered are subject to contractual restrictions on resale (as we discuss in our filings), the resale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock would make it more difficult for us to sell our shares in the future at prices which we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions. Risks of Our Tax Loss Carry Forwards If we experience an ownership change, our ability to realize value from our tax loss carry forwards could be significantly limited. As of December 31, 2007, we had federal net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $782 million that expire between 2011 and 2026. In addition, we had capital loss carry forwards of approximately $188 million that expire between 2008 and 2011. If we had an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our net operating loss carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of these losses. Based upon a review of past changes in our ownership, as of December 31, 2007, we do not believe that we have experienced an ownership change (as defined under Section 382) that would result in any limitation on our future ability to use these net operating loss and capital loss carry forwards. However, we cannot assure you that the IRS or some other taxing authority may not disagree with our position and contend that we have already experienced such an ownership change, which would severely limit our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards to offset future taxable income. 16 While we expect that the transfer restrictions on our stockholders approved and adopted in July 2005 will help guard against an ownership change occurring under Section 382 and the related rules, we cannot guarantee that these restrictions will prevent a change of ownership from occurring because we are using stock as consideration to make acquisitions, and because we may decide (or need) to sell additional shares of our common stock in the future to raise capital for our business and because persons who held more than 5% of our stock prior to these restrictions taking effect can sell (and in some cases have sold) shares of our stock. We may not be able to use our tax loss carry forwards because we may not generate taxable income. The use of our net operating loss carry forwards is subject to uncertainty because it is dependent upon the amount of taxable income we generate. Similarly, the extent of our actual use of our capital loss carry forwards is also subject to uncertainty because their use depends on the amount of capital gains we generate. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income (or capital gains) in future years to use the net operating loss carry forwards or capital loss carry forwards before they expire. This is especially true for our capital loss carry forwards, because they expire over a shorter period of time than our net operating loss carry forwards. The IRS could challenge the amount of our tax loss carry forwards. The amount of our net operating loss carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards has not been audited or otherwise validated by the IRS. The IRS could challenge the amount of our net operating loss carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards, which could result in an increase in our liability for income taxes. In addition, calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382 and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the calculation of the amount of our net loss carry forwards may not be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. We expect to be subject to state, local and foreign taxes, as well as the alternative minimum tax. Our net loss carry forwards would not offset the alternative minimum tax in its entirety. We will continue to be subject to state, local, and foreign taxes. As a result of our capital loss carry forwards and net operating loss carry forwards, we anticipate our federal income tax liability over the next several years will be reduced substantially. However, we expect to be subject to the alternative minimum tax provisions of the Internal Revenue Code which limits the use of net operating loss carry forwards. These provisions would result, in effect, in 10% of our alternative minimum taxable income being subject to the 20% alternative minimum tax assessed on corporations. This amounts to a 2% effective tax rate on our alternative minimum taxable income. The IRS may seek to impose the accumulated earnings tax on some or all of the taxable income we retain. We expect to retain all or a substantial portion of future earnings over the next several years to finance the development and growth of our IP business. As a result, we may not declare or pay any significant dividends on shares of our common stock for an extended period. If the IRS believed we were accumulating earnings beyond our reasonable business needs, the IRS could seek to impose an accumulated earnings tax, or AET, of 15% on our accumulated taxable income. We do not believe that we will be subject to the AET due to various reasons, including the existence of our large deficit in accumulated earnings and profits. However, the IRS may disagree with us on this point, and the IRS may attempt to impose the AET on all or a portion of our taxable income. In such event, we would expect to challenge any attempt by the IRS to impose the AET on our business, but the outcome of such a challenge is uncertain. If we distributed our accumulated taxable income for each year to our stockholders as dividends, we would not be subject to the AET for the amounts so distributed, but would be subject to the AET only for the amount of earnings retained. If we paid dividends to stockholders out of current earnings, these dividends would, generally speaking, be eligible to be treated as “qualified dividends” for federal income tax purposes, taxed at the current maximum federal rate of 15%, assuming that the recipient stockholder met the various requirements under the Internal Revenue Code for such treatment. The maximum rate for qualified dividends is currently projected to increase to the maximum federal income tax rate applicable to ordinary income (currently 35%) for tax years beginning after December 31, 2010 in accordance with the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, as amended by the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005. 17 Limits on ownership of our common stock could have an adverse consequence to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock. As noted above, it is important that we avoid an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, in order to retain the ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards to offset future income. Under transfer restrictions that have been applicable to our common stock since 2005, no one is permitted to acquire 5% or more of our stock without the consent of our Board of Directors. In addition, even if our Board of Directors consented to a significant stock acquisition, a potential buyer might be deterred from acquiring our common stock while we still have significant tax losses being carried forward, because such an acquisition might trigger an ownership change and severely impair our ability to use our tax losses against future income. Thus, this potential tax situation could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could affect adversely our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with a change in control. The transfer restrictions that apply to shares of our common stock, although designed as a protective measure to avoid an ownership change, may have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such a transaction may be favorable to the interests of some or all of our shareholders. This effect might prevent our stockholders from realizing an opportunity to sell all or a portion of their common stock at a premium to the prevailing market price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 