ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that May Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations We have a limited operating history and our products may never achieve market acceptance. We are a medical device company focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring systems for ambulatory use by people with diabetes and for use by healthcare providers in the hospital for the treatment of both diabetic and non-diabetic patients. On March 24, 2006, we received approval from the FDA for our first product, the STS, designed for up to three days of continuous use. On May 31, 2007, we received approval from the FDA for our second generation continuous glucose monitoring system, the SEVEN, designed for up to seven days of continuous use, and we began commercializing this product in the third quarter of 2007. As part of our commercialization of the SEVEN, we discontinued sales of our STS three day durable system in the second quarter of 2007 and discontinued the sale of our three day sensors during the second quarter of 2008. On February 13, 2009, we received approval from the FDA for our third generation continuous glucose monitoring system, which we expect to brand the SEVEN PLUS, and we expect to begin commercializing this product in the first quarter of 2009. Our approvals allow for the use of our continuous glucose monitoring systems by adults with diabetes to detect trends and track glucose patterns, to aid in the detection of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and long-term therapy adjustments. Our approved products must be prescribed by a physician and include a disposable sensor, a transmitter and a small handheld receiver. Our approved products are indicated for use as adjunctive devices to complement, not replace, information obtained from standard home blood glucose monitoring devices and must be calibrated periodically using a standard home blood glucose monitor. The sensor is inserted by the patient and is intended to be used continuously for up to seven days after which it is removed by the patient and may be replaced by a new sensor. Our transmitter and receiver are reusable. On November 26, 2008, we received CE Mark (Conformité Européene) approval for the SEVEN, enabling commercialization of the SEVEN system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark. We expect to commercialize the SEVEN on a limited basis in the European Union in 2009. From inception to 2006, we devoted substantially all of our resources to start-up activities, raising capital and research and development, including product design, testing, manufacturing and clinical trials. Since 2006, we have devoted considerable resources to the commercialization of our ambulatory continuous glucose monitoring systems, including the SEVEN, as well as the continued research and clinical development of our technology platform. We have yet to seek approval from the FDA for our in-hospital, continuous glucose monitoring system. 23 Table of Contents We expect that sales of our SEVEN and our SEVEN PLUS, which both consist of a handheld receiver, reusable transmitter and disposable sensor, will account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. From inception through December 31, 2008, revenues from sales of our products total approximately $14.9 million. We have limited experience in selling our products and we might be unable to successfully commercialize our products on a wide scale for a number of reasons, including: • market acceptance of our products by physicians and patients will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, reliability, cost-effectiveness and ease of use; • we may not be able to manufacture our products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; • patients do not generally receive broad reimbursement from third-party payors for their purchase of our products, which may reduce widespread use of our products; • our inexperience in marketing, selling and distributing our products; • we may not have adequate financial or other resources to successfully commercialize our products; • the uncertainties associated with establishing and qualifying new manufacturing facilities; • our SEVEN is not labeled as a replacement for the information that is obtained from single-point finger stick devices; • patients will need to incur the costs of our SEVEN in addition to single-point finger stick devices; • the introduction and market acceptance of competing products and technologies; • our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of supplies at appropriate quality levels from our sole source and other key suppliers; and • rapid technological change may make our technology and our products obsolete. Our SEVEN is more invasive than current self-monitored glucose testing systems, including single-point finger stick devices, and patients may be unwilling to insert a sensor in their body, especially if their current diabetes management involves no more than two finger sticks per day. Moreover, patients may not perceive the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and may be unwilling to change their current treatment regimens. In addition, physicians tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products. Physicians may not recommend or prescribe our products until (i) there is long-term clinical evidence to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods, (ii) there are recommendations from prominent physicians that our products are effective in monitoring glucose levels and (iii) reimbursement or insurance coverage is widely available. We cannot predict when, if ever, physicians and patients may adopt the use of the SEVEN. If the SEVEN does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by patients, physicians and healthcare payors, we may not generate significant product revenue and we may not become profitable. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In March 2007, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $60 million in 4.75% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2027. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; • make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; 24 Table of Contents • limit our ability to sell ourselves or engage in other strategic transactions; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; or • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue due to any of the factors described in this section entitled “Risk Factors,” or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Although the convertible senior notes mature in 2027, the holders of the convertible senior notes may require us to repurchase their notes prior to maturity under certain circumstances, including specified fundamental changes such as the sale of a majority of the voting power of the company. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the convertible senior notes, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at such time. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of the convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the convertible senior notes permit the holders to convert the notes into shares of our common stock. The convertible senior notes are convertible into our common stock initially at a conversion price of $7.80 per share, which would result in an aggregate of approximately 7.7 million shares of our common stock being issued upon conversion, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events, provided that the total number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion, as may be adjusted for fundamental changes or otherwise, may not exceed approximately 9.2 million shares. The conversion of some or all of the convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in May 1999, including a net loss of $55.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $231.4 million. We have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our equity and debt securities and our public offerings, and have devoted a substantial portion of our resources to research and development relating to our continuous glucose monitoring systems, including our in-hospital product development, and more recently, we have incurred significant sales and marketing and manufacturing expenses associated with the commercialization of the SEVEN. In addition, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our clinical trials and other development activities related to our products. We also expect that our general and administrative expenses will continue to increase due to the additional operational and regulatory burdens applicable to public companies. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and may adversely affect our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, the convertible senior notes. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions makes it particularly difficult to predict product demand and other related matters and makes it more likely that our actual results could differ materially from expectations. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions, which have recently deteriorated significantly in the United States and other countries, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These conditions may make it difficult for our customers and potential customers to afford our products, 25 Table of Contents and could cause our customers to stop using our products or to use them less frequently. If that were to occur, we would experience a decrease in revenue and our performance would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States, or in our industry. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our products, our business may be harmed. To achieve commercial success for the SEVEN and our future products, we must continue to develop and grow our sales and marketing organization and enter into arrangements with others to market and sell our products. We currently employ a small direct sales force to market our products in the United States. Our sales organization competes with the experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations of our competitors. We have also entered into distribution arrangements to leverage existing distributors already engaged in the diabetes marketplace. Because of the competition for their services, we may be unable to partner with or retain additional qualified distributors. Further, we may not be able to enter into agreements with distributors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Developing and managing a direct sales organization is a difficult, expensive and time consuming process. To be successful we must: • recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales personnel; • effectively train our sales personnel in the benefits of our products; • establish and maintain successful sales and marketing and education programs that encourage endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators to recommend our products to their patients; and • manage geographically disbursed sales and marketing operations. If we are unable to develop and maintain an adequate sales and marketing organization, or if our direct sales organization is not successful, we may have difficulty achieving market awareness and selling our products. We have contracted with third party distributors to market and sell our products in the United States and in portions of Europe to access the existing bases of diabetes patients of certain distributors. To the extent that we enter into additional arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing, distribution and billing services in the United States or Europe, our product margins could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenue received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. In addition, market acceptance of our products by physicians and patients in Europe will largely depend on our ability to demonstrate their relative safety, efficacy, reliability, cost-effectiveness and ease of use. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to generate product revenue from our sales efforts in Europe. Last, if we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of product at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently have limited resources, facilities and experience in commercially manufacturing sufficient quantities of product to meet expected demand. We have had difficulty scaling our manufacturing operations to 26 Table of Contents provide a sufficient supply of product to support our commercialization efforts. We have also experienced periods of backorder and, at times, have had to limit the efforts of our sales force to introduce our products to new customers. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. We have made progress in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, however, there can be no assurances that supply will not be constrained going forward. In order to produce our products in the quantities we anticipate will be necessary to meet market demand, we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity by a significant factor over the current level. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and automation, materials procurement, problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. Developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities will require the investment of substantial additional funds and the hiring and retention of additional management, quality assurance, quality control and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. Also, the scaling of manufacturing capacity is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as construction timelines, design, installation and maintenance of manufacturing equipment, among others, which can lead to unexpected delays. In addition, our facilities may have to undergo additional inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and expand our manufacturing process and operations or obtain FDA and state agency approval of our facilities in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our current products or any future products for which we may receive approval, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer. Additionally, the production of our products must occur in a highly controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and other yield-and quality-limiting contaminants. Weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of defective products in a lot. If we are not able to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, our clinical development and commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. Since our commercial launch in 2006, we have experienced periodic field failures. We do not believe these failures created any patient safety concerns and we are not aware of any reports of adverse events or incidents related to these failures. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions aimed at reducing or eliminating field failures, there can be no assurances that we will not experience additional failures going forward. Our products do not have broad reimbursement and receive only limited insurance coverage by third party payors. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement at acceptable prices for our products or any future products from third-party payors, we will be unable to generate significant revenue. As a medical device company, reimbursement from Medicare and private third-party healthcare payors is an important element of our success. To date, our products are not reimbursed by virtue of a national coverage decision by Medicare. Several private third-party payors have issued coverage policies for the category of continuous glucose monitoring devices. In addition, we have negotiated contracted rates with several of the largest private insurance providers for the purchase of our products by their members. However, patients without insurance that covers our products will have to bear the financial cost of them. On November 2, 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, or CMS, released its 2008 Alpha-Numeric HCPCS File which included three separate codes applicable to each of the three components of our continuous glucose monitoring system and HCPCS codes for continuous glucose monitoring became effective on January 1, 2008. HCPCS codes are billing codes used by Medicare and private third-party payors, but do not represent a reimbursement coverage decision by CMS. In the United States, patients using existing single-point finger stick devices are generally reimbursed all or part of the product cost by Medicare or other third-party payors. The commercial success of our products in both domestic and international markets will be substantially dependent on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is widely available for patients that use them. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medical devices, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide 27 Table of Contents adequate payment for our products. In order to obtain reimbursement arrangements, we may have to agree to a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might charge in other sales channels. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may limit our revenue. Our initial dependence on the commercial success of the SEVEN makes us particularly susceptible to any cost containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for the SEVEN, patients may not use it. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed healthcare in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for our products or the exclusion of our products from reimbursement programs. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We rely on Flextronics International, Ltd. to manufacture and supply circuit boards for our receiver; we rely on AMI Semiconductor, Inc. to manufacture and supply the application specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, that is incorporated into the transmitter; we rely on The Polymer Technology Group to manufacture certain polymers used to synthesize our polymeric biointerface membranes for our products; and we rely on The Tech Group to supply our injection molded components. Each of these suppliers is a sole-source supplier. In some cases, our agreements with these and our other suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. Our contract manufacturers also rely on sole-source suppliers to manufacture some of the components used in our products. Our manufacturers and suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • our products are technologically complex and it is difficult to develop alternative supply sources; • we are not a major customer of many of our suppliers, and these suppliers may therefore give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours; • our suppliers may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of our products; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source supplies; • switching components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a PMA supplement or possibly a separate PMA, either of which could significantly delay production; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, including those related to changes in global economic conditions, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for our single-source components, in part because of the FDA approval process and because of the custom nature of various parts we design. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products. 28 Table of Contents Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. has filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us. If we are not successful in defending against its claims, our business could be materially impaired. On August 11, 2005, Abbott filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaratory judgment that our continuous glucose monitor infringes certain patents held by Abbott. In August 2005, we moved to dismiss these claims and filed requests for reexamination of the Abbott patents with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the Patent Office, and by March 2006, the Patent Office ordered reexamination of each of the four patents originally asserted against us in the litigation. On June 27, 2006, Abbott amended its complaint to include three additional patents owned or licensed by Abbott which are allegedly infringed by our continuous glucose monitor. On August 18, 2006 the court granted our motion to stay the lawsuit pending reexamination by the Patent Office of each of the four patents originally asserted by Abbott, and the court dismissed one significant infringement claim. In approving the stay, the court also granted our motion to strike, or disallow, Abbott’s amended complaint in which Abbott had sought to add three additional patents to the litigation. Subsequent to the court’s August 18, 2006 order striking Abbott’s amended complaint, Abbott filed a separate action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging patent infringement of the three additional patents it had sought to include in the litigation discussed above. On September 7, 2006, we filed a motion to strike Abbott’s new complaint on the grounds that it is redundant of claims Abbott already improperly attempted to inject into the original case, and because the original case is now stayed, Abbott must wait until the court lifts that stay before it can properly ask the court to consider these claims. Alternatively, we asked the court to consolidate the new case with the original case and thereby stay the entirety of the case pending conclusion of the reexamination proceedings in the Patent Office. In February 2007, the Patent Office ordered reexamination of each of the three patents cited in this new lawsuit. On September 30, 2007, the court granted our motion to consolidate the cases and stay the entirety of the case pending conclusion of the reexamination proceedings in the Patent Office relating to all seven patents asserted against us. Each of the seven patents described above have one or more associated reexamination requests in various stages of prosecution at the Patent Office. With regard to the four patents originally asserted, three of the patents are under final rejection and one of the patents is under non-final rejection. Abbott has filed responses with the Patent Office seeking claim construction to differentiate certain claims from the prior art we have presented, seeking to amend certain claims to overcome the prior art we have presented, and/or seeking to add new claims. One final rejection indicates some rejected and some allowable claims. In the other two final rejections, all of the claims for which reexamination was requested currently stand rejected. So far, Abbott has filed an Appeal Brief in one of the cases finally rejected. With regard to the three patents subsequently asserted, two of the patents are under non-final rejection and one of the patents has recently had a new reexamination request ordered. In these two non-finally rejected cases, Abbott has filed responses with the Patent Office seeking claim construction to differentiate certain claims from the prior art we have presented, seeking to amend certain claims to overcome the prior art we have presented, and/or seeking to add new claims. Additionally, although two of these three patents have each had a Reexamination Certificate issue and/or a claim confirmed, the Patent Office has subsequently ordered additional reexamination on these reexamined patents in view of new prior art and/or new issues presented by subsequently filed reexamination requests. In 2008, Abbott copied claims from certain of DexCom’s applications, and stated that it may seek to provoke an interference with certain of DexCom’s pending applications in the Patent Office. If the interference is declared and Abbott prevails in the interference, DexCom would lose certain patent rights to the subject matter defined in the interference. Also in 2008, Abbott has filed reexamination requests seeking to invalidate two of DexCom’s patents in the Patent Office. In both reexamination requests, the Patent Office has ordered the reexamination and issued non-final office actions and we have responded to those non-final office actions by seeking claim construction to differentiate certain claims from the prior art, seeking to amend certain claims to overcome the prior art, and canceling certain claims. Recently, the Patent Office has issued a non-final office action confirming the patentability of our original and amended claims pending in one of the patents. 29 Table of Contents Although it is our position that Abbott’s assertions of infringement have no merit, and that the potential interference and reexamination requests have no merit, neither the outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range of potential fees associated with the litigation, potential interference or reexamination requests can be assessed. No assurances can be given that we will prevail in the lawsuit or that we can successfully defend ourselves against the claims made by Abbott, and we expect to incur significant costs in defending the action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. Subject to the stay, Abbott could immediately seek a preliminary injunction that, if granted, would force us to stop making, using, selling or offering to sell our products. Our SEVEN and SEVEN Plus are our only current products that are approved for commercial sale, and if we were forced to stop selling them, our business and prospects would suffer. We cannot assure you that Abbott will not file for a preliminary injunction, that we would be successful in defending against such an action if filed or that we can successfully defend ourselves against the claim. In addition, defending against this action could have a number of harmful effects on our business, including those discussed in the following risk factor, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. Any adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we are or may become a party relating to patents could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from other third parties. Furthermore, if we are found to willfully infringe third-party patents, we could, in addition to other penalties, be required to pay treble damages. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement and any redesign may not receive FDA approval in a timely manner if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. We are subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from shipping affected products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. Other companies, including Abbott, could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties or others. Our competitors may assert that our continuous glucose monitoring systems or the methods we employ in the use of our systems are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued patents and pending patent applications relating to self-monitored glucose testing systems in the medical technology field. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for continuous glucose monitoring systems grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. Any infringement or misappropriation claim, including the claim brought by Abbott, could cause us to incur significant costs, could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling our product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Even if we are able to redesign our products to avoid an infringement claim, we may not 30 Table of Contents receive FDA approval for such changes in a timely manner or at all. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, selling or offering to sell one or more of our products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and our ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark law, and trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. However, such methods may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or at all. Our issued patents, and those that may issue in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. In addition, proposed regulations may limit our ability to file continuing patent applications and pursue patent claims in the USPTO. To protect our proprietary rights, we may in the future need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, invalid or unenforceable, and could award attorney fees. Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, third parties may be able to design around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The federal trademark application for the DEXCOM mark has been opposed, and we continue to vigorously defend against the opposition. The opposition proceeding only determines the right to federally register a trademark and cannot result in the award of any damages. We believe that we are entitled to a registration for our DEXCOM mark, but cannot assure you that we will succeed in these efforts. If we are unsuccessful, we could be forced to change our company name or market our products under a different name, which could result in a loss of brand recognition, could require us to retrieve product and interrupt supply and could require us to devote substantial resources to advertising and marketing our products under the new brand. We operate in a highly competitive market and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers with significant resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for glucose monitoring devices is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In selling the SEVEN, we compete directly with Roche Diabetes Care, a division of Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense divisions of Abbott Laboratories; and Bayer Corporation, each of which manufactures and markets products for the single-point finger stick device market. Collectively, these companies currently account for substantially all of the worldwide sales of self-monitored 31 Table of Contents glucose testing systems. Several companies are developing or marketing short-term continuous glucose monitoring products that will compete directly with our products. To date, in addition to DexCom, three other companies, Cygnus, Medtronic and Abbott, have received approval from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed by Cygnus, is no longer actively marketed. In addition, we believe that Johnson & Johnson, Roche Diagnostics and others are developing invasive and non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring systems. Most of the companies developing or marketing competing devices are publicly traded or divisions of publicly-traded companies, and these companies enjoy several competitive advantages, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing approved products; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products. We have entered into a Collaboration Agreement with Edwards to develop jointly an in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring device that may not result in the development of a commercially viable product or generation of any future revenues. On November 10, 2008, we entered into a Collaboration Agreement with Edwards pursuant to which we have agreed to develop jointly and to market an in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring system. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we expect to receive payments for various milestones related to regulatory approvals and commercial readiness of the product. In addition, we also expect to receive either a profit-sharing payment of 10% of commercial sales of the product, or a royalty of 6% of commercial sales of the product. The Collaboration Agreement provides Edwards with an exclusive license to DexCom’s intellectual property in the hospital market. However, this collaboration may not result in the development of products that achieve regulatory approval or commercial success, which would result in various penalties to us under the Collaboration Agreement, up to and including loss of some or all of our milestone payments and rights to any profit-sharing or royalties. We enter into collaborations with third parties related to our SEVEN that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into collaborative arrangements to develop new products and to pursue new markets, such as our agreements with Animas and Insulet, to integrate our receiver technology into their respective insulin delivery systems. We have also entered into an OUS Commercialization Agreement with Animas pursuant to which Animas retains the exclusive right to develop and market outside the United States an ambulatory insulin pump that is combined with our continuous glucose monitoring technology. These collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success and could be terminated prior to developing any products. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of our collaborations will result in the successful development of a commercially viable product or result in significant additional future revenues. 32 Table of Contents To date, no continuous glucose monitoring system, including our SEVEN, has received FDA clearance as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices, and our SEVEN and its future generations may never be approved for that indication. The SEVEN does not eliminate the need for single-point finger stick devices and our future products may not be approved for that indication. No precedent for FDA approval of continuous glucose monitoring systems as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices has been established. Accordingly, there is no established study design or agreement regarding performance requirements or measurements in clinical trials for continuous glucose monitoring systems. We have not yet filed for FDA approval for replacement claim labeling and we cannot assure you that we will not experience delays if we do file. If any of our competitors were to obtain replacement claim labeling for a continuous glucose monitoring system, our products may not be able to compete effectively against that system and our business would suffer. Technological breakthroughs in the glucose monitoring market could render our products obsolete. The glucose monitoring market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our products are based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies and medical researchers are pursuing new technologies for the monitoring of glucose levels. FDA approval of a commercially viable continuous glucose monitor or sensor produced by one of our competitors could significantly reduce market acceptance of our systems. Several of our competitors are in various stages of developing continuous glucose monitors or sensors, including non-invasive and invasive devices, and the FDA has approved several of these competing products. In addition, the National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve treatment of diabetes. Therefore, our products may be rendered obsolete by technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment, prevention or cure. If we are unable to successfully complete the pre-clinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support additional PMA or 510(k) applications, we may be unable to commercialize our continuous glucose monitoring systems under development, which could impair our financial position. Before submitting any additional PMA or 510(k) applications, such as for our in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring system, we must successfully complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that we believe will demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. Product development, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the studies and trial may be inadequate to support approval of a PMA or 510(k) application. While we have in the past obtained, and may in the future obtain, an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, prior to commencing clinical trials for our continuous glucose monitoring systems, FDA approval of an IDE application permitting us to conduct testing does not mean that the FDA will consider the data gathered in the trial to be sufficient to support approval of a PMA or 510(k) application, even if the trial’s intended safety and efficacy endpoints are achieved. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA or 510(k) application, for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients do not comply with trial protocols; • patient follow-up does not occur at the rate we expect; • patients experience adverse side effects; 33 Table of Contents • patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products; • institutional review boards, or IRBs, and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol; • third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the investigator agreements, clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA or IRB requirements; • third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans; • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and • the FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The results of pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results, and prior clinical trial results might not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products. In addition, the data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA approval. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trial and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to ensure compliance by patients with clinical protocols or fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we will be unable to complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or the clinical data may be rejected by the FDA, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products. We may never receive FDA approval to market our in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring system that is under development, or any other continuous glucose monitoring system under development. Pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement entered into with Edwards, we are jointly developing an in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring system, and we will seek to obtain FDA approval for this device. The regulatory approval process for this device, and any other continuous glucose monitoring system in development involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining either prior 34 Table of Contents 510(k) clearance or prior approval from the FDA through the PMA process. The PMA process requires us to prove the safety and efficacy of our continuous blood glucose monitoring system to the FDA’s satisfaction. This process can be expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and human clinical data, generally takes one to three years after a PMA application is filed and may never result in the FDA granting a PMA. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for many reasons, including: • our systems may not satisfy the FDA’s safety or efficacy requirements; • the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval; • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and • changes in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional data. Even if approved, our in-hospital blood glucose monitoring system, or any other continuous glucose monitoring system under development may not be approved for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market these continuous glucose monitoring systems in the United States or anywhere else. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for our continuous glucose monitoring systems under development could prevent us from generating revenue from these products or achieving profitability. We may be unable to continue the commercialization of our SEVEN or the development and commercialization of our other continuous glucose monitoring systems, including the in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring system and the SEVEN PLUS, without additional funding. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on commercializing our products, including further development of our direct sales force and expansion of our manufacturing capacity, and on research and development, including conducting clinical trials for our in-hospital continuous blood glucose monitoring system as well as our next generation continuous glucose monitoring systems. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, our net cash used in operating activities was $37.5 million, compared to $33.2 million for the same period in 2007, and as of December 31, 2008, we had working capital of $17.1 million, including $27.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. We expect that our cash used by operations will increase significantly in each of the next several years, and, although we recently completed a public follow-on stock offering of 15,994,000 shares of our common stock for net proceeds to the company of approximately $45.6 million, we may need additional funds to continue the commercialization of our products and for the development and commercialization of other continuous glucose monitoring systems. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any additional financing may be dilutive to stockholders or may require us to grant a lender a security interest in our assets. The amount of funding we will need will depend on many factors, including: • the revenue generated by sales of our products and other future products; • the expenses we incur in manufacturing, developing, selling and marketing our products; • our ability to scale our manufacturing operations to meet demand for our current and any future products; • the costs to produce our continuous glucose monitoring systems; • the costs and timing of additional regulatory approvals; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities; • the success of our research and development efforts; • the emergence of competing or complementary technological developments; 35 Table of Contents • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; and • the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. If adequate funds are not available, we may not be able to commercialize our products at the rate we desire and we may have to delay development or commercialization of our other products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products. Any of these factors could harm our financial condition. Potential long-term complications from our products or other continuous glucose monitoring systems under development may not be revealed by our clinical experience to date. If unanticipated long-term side-effects result from the use of our products or other glucose monitoring systems under development, we could be subject to liability and our systems would not be widely adopted. With respect to our SEVEN, our clinical trials have been limited to seven days of continuous use. Additionally, we have limited clinical experience with repeated use of our products in the same patient. We cannot assure you that long-term use would not result in unanticipated complications. Furthermore, the interim results from our current pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may not be indicative of the clinical results obtained when we examine the patients at later dates. It is possible that repeated use of our products may result in unanticipated adverse effects, potentially even after the device is removed. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which may include inspection of our manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product. The FDA’s medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations require that we report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, shipping and servicing of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. We currently manufacture our devices at our headquarters facility in San Diego, California. In this facility we have more than 10,000 square feet of laboratory space and approximately 5,000 square feet of controlled environment rooms. In November 2008, our facilities were subject to a post-approval PMA and QSR audit by FDA. At the close of the inspection, FDA issued a Form 483 identifying several inspectional observations, the majority of which were corrected and verified while the FDA investigator was on site and, although we have no formal requirements or obligations to provide anything further to the FDA regarding these observations, in January 2009, we voluntarily provided formal written evidence to FDA of actions taken to address one remaining minor observation. In addition, our method of wireless communication from the transmitter to the receiver may be affected by regulatory amendments. Medtronic has filed a petition with the FCC requesting the FCC establish a bifurcated MICS band which would require device manufacturers whose products will operate in the main MICS band to either manufacture their devices using listen-before-transmit technology, or to transmit on a side band outside the main MICS band at lower power. Although the SEVEN does not comply with existing MICS band listen-before-transmit requirements, the FCC determined that the likelihood of our device causing interference is low, which was the basis for the FCC’s issuance of a waiver from these requirements. Our waiver includes a one year grace period to conform with any new rules adopted by the FCC with respect to the use of the MICS band. If the FCC does create a separate spectrum and does not extend our waiver to allow us to continue to operate in the main MICS band, we may be required to re-engineer our product to transmit over a different frequency which 36 Table of Contents may require changes to our regulatory approvals and may have an adverse impact on the operation of our products. Compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. Failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or failure to take adequate response to any observations, could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; • delays in approving or refusal to approve our continuous glucose monitoring systems; • withdrawal of approval by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. In addition, we believe MDRs are generally underreported and any underlying problems could be of a larger magnitude than suggested by the number or types of MDRs we receive. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including software bugs, unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as the QSR, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices, including those which may arise from the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. Further, if additional products are approved for marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business. 37 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others or misuse of the device. Our customers, either on their own or following the advice of their physicians, may use our products in a manner not described in the products’ labeling and that differs from the manner in which it was used in clinical studies and approved by the FDA. For example, our SEVEN is designed to be used by a patient continuously for up to seven days, but the patient might be able to circumvent the safeguards designed into the SEVEN and use the product for longer than seven days. Off-label use of products by patients is common, and any such off-label use of our products could subject us to additional liability. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers or result in reduced acceptance of our products in the market. We may be subject to fines, penalties and injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved off-label uses. Although we believe our promotional materials and training methods are conducted in compliance with FDA and other regulations, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, the FDA could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with these laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • billing for services; • financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • inducements and courtesies given to physicians and other health care providers and patients; • quality of medical equipment and services; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and individually identifiable health information; • medical device reporting; • false claims; • professional licensure; and • labeling products. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in some cases, still evolving. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal, state or local laws and regulations which govern our activities, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations. The risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. 38 Table of Contents In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future. Any new healthcare laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. A review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities may result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. Also, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our operations. We are not aware of any governmental healthcare investigations involving our executives or us. However, any future healthcare investigations of our executives, our managers or us could result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity. The majority of our operations are conducted at one facility in San Diego, California. Any disruption at this facility could increase our expenses. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by materials that we handle, and changes in environmental regulations could cause us to incur additional expense. Our research and development and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We have begun limited marketing efforts in Europe and may seek to market our products in other regions in the future. Outside the United States, we can market a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States on a timely basis, or at all. 39 Table of Contents Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain our personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Terrance H. Gregg, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew K. Balo, our Senior Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance, Steven R. Pacelli, our Chief Administrative Officer and Jorge Valdes, our Senior Vice President of Operations. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including sales persons, scientists, clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as sales persons, scientists, clinicians and engineers, is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of members of our senior management, scientists, clinicians or engineers could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the commercialization of our current products and the development and introduction of additional products. The loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Each of our officers may terminate their employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. We expect to continue to expand our operations and grow our research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, product development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We have incurred and will incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and regulations and respond to new requirements under such rules and regulations. We are required to comply with many of these rules and regulations, and will be required to comply with additional rules and regulations in the future. As an early commercialization stage company with limited capital and human resources, we will need to divert management’s time and attention away from our business in order to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. This diversion of management’s time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Valuation of share-based payments, which we are required to perform for purposes of recording compensation expense under SFAS 123(R), involves significant assumptions that are subject to change and difficult to predict. On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of income for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The requirements of SFAS 123(R) have and will continue to have a material effect on our future financial results reported under GAAP and make it difficult for us to accurately predict the impact our future financial results. For instance, estimating the fair value of share-based payments is highly dependent on assumptions regarding the future exercise behavior of our employees and changes in our stock price. Our share-based payments have characteristics significantly different from those of freely traded options, and changes to the subjective input assumptions of our share-based payment valuation models can materially change our estimates of the fair values of our share-based payments. In addition, the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of share-based payments might be significantly different that our 40 Table of Contents estimates of the fair values of those awards as determined at the date of grant. Moreover, we rely on third parties that supply us with information or help us perform certain calculations that we employ to estimate the fair value of share-based payments. If any of these parties do not perform as expected or make errors, we may inaccurately calculate actual or estimated compensation expense for share-based payments. SFAS 123(R) could also adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future financial results as assumptions that are used to estimate the fair value of share-based payments are based on estimates and judgments that may differ from period to period. We may also be unable to accurately predict the amount and timing of the recognition of tax benefits associated with share-based payments as they are highly dependent on the exercise behavior of our employees and the price of our stock relative to the exercise price of each outstanding stock option. For those reasons, among others, SFAS 123(R) may create variability and uncertainty in the share-based compensation expense we will record in future periods, which could adversely impact our stock price and increase our expected stock price volatility as compared to prior periods. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and/or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. The method in which we market and sell our products may have an impact on the manner in which we recognize revenue. In addition, changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, as a result of changes approved by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, on January 1, 2006 we began recording compensation expense in our statements of operations for equity compensation instruments, including employee stock options, using the fair value method. Our reported financial results beginning for the first quarter of 2006 and for all foreseeable future periods will be negatively and materially impacted by this accounting change. Other potential changes in existing taxation rules related to stock options and other forms of equity compensation could also have a significant negative effect on our reported results. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)” (“APB 14-1”). The FSP requires the issuer of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash (or other assets) on conversion to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument. The debt would be recognized at the present value of its cash flows discounted using the Company’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The equity component would be recognized as the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the note and the fair value of the liability. The FSP also requires an accretion of the resultant debt discount over the expected life of the debt. The transition guidance requires retrospective application to all periods presented, and does not grandfather existing instruments. The effective date of the FSP is for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We believe the convertible debt issued in March 2007 falls under the FSP and we will be required to retroactively apply the guidance. Although we have not completed our analysis of the impact of this guidance, we believe the application would cause a reduction to the carrying value of the debt on our balance sheet and a corresponding increase in non-cash interest expense to be recognized over the initial five year redemption period which could be significant. 41 Table of Contents Our loan and security agreement contains restrictions that may limit our operating flexibility. In March 2006, we entered into our Loan Agreement that provided for a loan to finance various equipment and leasehold improvement expenses. In January 2008, we amended our Loan Agreement to enable us to draw an additional $3.0 million. We are required to repay this additional amount at intervals through July 2011. As of December 31, 2008, we had a total outstanding loan balance under the Loan Agreement of $3.4 million. The Loan Agreement requires us to maintain a minimum cash balance with Square 1 Bank, and also imposes certain limitations on us, including limitations on our ability to: • transfer all or any part of our businesses or properties, other than transfers done in the ordinary course of business; • engage in any business other than the businesses in which we are currently engaged; • relocate our chief executive offices or state of incorporation; • change our legal name or fiscal year; • replace our chief executive officer or chief financial officer; • merge or consolidate with or into any other business organizations, with certain exceptions; • permit any person to beneficially own a sufficient number of shares entitling such person to elect a majority of our board of directors; • incur additional indebtedness, with certain exceptions; • incur liens with respect to any of our properties, with certain exceptions; • pay dividends or make any other distribution or payment on account of or in redemption, retirement or purchase of any capital stock, other than repurchases of the stock of former employees; • directly or indirectly acquire or own, or make any investment in, any persons, with certain exceptions; • directly or indirectly enter into or permit to exist any material transaction with any affiliates except such transactions that are in the ordinary course of business that are done upon fair and reasonable terms that are no less favorable to us than would be obtained in an arm’s length transaction with a non-affiliated company; • make any payment in respect of any subordinated debt, or permit any of our U.S. domestic subsidiaries to make any such payment, except in compliance with the terms of such subordinated debt; or • store any equipment or inventory in which the lender has any interest with any bailee, warehousemen or similar third party unless the third party has been notified of the lender’s security interest, or • become or be controlled by an “investment company.” Complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 