Item 1A. Risk Factors • We have not been profitable in four out of the last five years. We incurred net losses of $9.8 million in 2005, $13.0 million in 2004, $0.8 million in 2003, and $17.5 million in 2001 and have experienced negative cash flow from operations in four of the past five years. Since the adoption of our new business model of delivering non-asset-based third-party logistics services in 2001, we have incurred losses from continuing operations of $9.8 million in 2005, $13.0 million in 2004 and $0.5 million in 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2005, cash flow from operations was $5.0 million. Negative cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $1.6 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Although our results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 include restructuring and excess earn-out charges of $3.3 million and $7.4 million, respectively, our ability to achieve 10 Table of Contents profitability on a continuing basis in the future is dependent upon (a) the results of the efforts we began in the fourth quarter of 2004 to further integrate our business operations, (b) our ability to pass along added costs to customers, including escalating fuel charges, (c) our ability to improve our buying processes to reduce the costs of carrier services, (d) our ability to implement a new freight forwarding information system, and (e) our ability to retain and attract talented and experienced personnel in the future. There is no assurance that those results will achieve their intended effect or that we will be able to effectuate such actions. • We need additional capital to meet our existing obligations and implement our business strategy. Additional capital will be required to fund our existing obligations and to execute our business strategy. We intend to obtain that additional capital through a combination of debt and equity financing. There is no assurance that we can obtain capital on favorable terms within the timeframe necessary to meet our existing obligations or to implement our strategy. • The issuance of additional securities may cause additional dilution to the interests of our existing shareholders. We may issue additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents to obtain the capital we need. The issuance of such securities would further increase the number of shares outstanding and further dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. We may issue more shares of common stock for this purpose without prior notice to our shareholders. We may also issue securities to, among other things, facilitate a business combination, acquire assets or stock of another business, compensate employees or consultants or for other valid business reasons at the discretion of our Board of Directors, which could further dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. • The exercise or conversion of our outstanding options, warrants or other convertible securities or any derivative securities we issue in the future will result in the dilution of our existing shareholders and may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 1, 2006, we had 43,749,693 outstanding shares of common stock. We may in the future issue up to 29,482,630 additional shares of our common stock upon conversion or exercise of existing outstanding convertible securities, options and warrants in accordance with the following schedule: Number of Shares Proceeds Options outstanding under our stock option plan 12,126,784 $ 18,143,235 Shares issuable upon conversion of Convertible Note 9,382,623 (1) — Shares issuable upon exchange of subsidiary Preferred Shares 3,444,445 (2) — Non-plan options 552,000 920,750 Warrants 3,976,778 11,364,399 Total 29,482,630 $ 30,428,384 (1) Does not include shares which may be issued upon conversion of accrued interest or fees payable under a convertible note in connection with our domestic credit facility (the “Convertible Note”). The holder of the Convertible Note has the right to convert any portion of such interest or fees not paid in cash into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $1.0658 per share, subject to anti-dilution adjustment. Although the holder has the right to exercise this conversion feature, it is our expectation that all such interest and fees will be paid in cash. (2) Includes 2,777,778 shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of preferred shares of Stonepath Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited (“Preferred Shares”) now outstanding and an additional 666,667 shares of common stock which may be issued upon exchange of additional Preferred Shares which may be issued as pay-in-kind dividends on the Preferred Shares for two years’ worth of such dividends. Does not 11 Table of Contents include 333,333 additional shares of common stock which may be issued in exchange for Preferred Shares issued as pay-in-kind dividends in each year after such two-year period. Under the terms of our domestic credit facility, once the outstanding $10.0 million minimum borrowing note, or any subsequent minimum borrowing note in that amount, has been fully converted into shares of our common stock during the three year term of that facility, a new $10.0 million minimum borrowing note will be issued convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to 115% of the average market price for the ten trading days preceding the issuance of that minimum borrowing note. Even though the aggregate exercise of these securities could generate material proceeds for us, the issuance of additional shares of common stock would result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing common shareholders and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. • We are unable to make further acquisitions without the consent of the lender under our domestic credit facility. Our current domestic credit facility requires the lender’s consent for further acquisitions. Although our lender may have the obligation to act reasonably and in good faith in connection with any consent we may request, our domestic credit facility contains no specific objective criteria by which a proposed acquisition would be measured or evaluated. These circumstances may limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we may need to achieve our strategic objectives. • Our earnings are subject to non-cash charges relating to the amortization of intangibles. Under applicable accounting standards, purchasers are required to allocate the total consideration paid in a business combination to the identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the time of acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid in a business combination over the fair value of the identifiable tangible net assets acquired is to be allocated among identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. The amount allocated to goodwill is not subject to amortization. However, it is tested at least annually for impairment. The amount allocated to identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships, is amortized over the life of these intangible assets. This subjects us to periodic charges against our earnings to the extent of the amortization incurred for that period. Because we have grown through acquisitions, our earnings are subject to greater non-cash amortization charges than a company whose earnings have been derived from internal growth. As a result, we will experience an increase in non-cash charges related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. This will create the appearance, based on our consolidated financial statements, that our intangible assets are diminishing in value, when in fact they may be increasing because we are growing the value of our intangible assets (e.g., customer relationships). • If we are unable to profitably manage and integrate the companies we acquire, are unable to acquire additional companies, or are unable to grow our existing operations, we will not achieve our growth and profit objectives. Our goal is to build a global logistics services organization through both the acquisition of other logistics companies, as well as through internal growth of our existing operations. There can be no assurance that, if we are able to make further acquisitions, we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results, diversion of management resources, failure to retain key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot be sure that we will grow our existing operations successfully. 12 Table of Contents • We rely on a small number of large customers, the loss of which would have a negative effect on our results of operations. Even though our customer base is diversifying as we grow, it remains concentrated. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 26% of total revenue was derived from our six largest customers, in comparison to 39% for the six largest customers in 2004. We believe the risk posed by this concentration is mitigated by our longstanding and continuing relationships with these customers and we are confident that these relationships will remain ongoing for the foreseeable future. We intend to continue to provide superior service to all of our customers and have no expectation that revenue from any of these customers will be reduced as a result of any factors within our control. However, adverse conditions in the industries of our customers could cause us to lose a significant customer or experience a decrease in shipment volume. Either of these events could negatively impact us. Our immediate plans, however, are to reduce our dependence on any particular customer or customers by increasing our sales and customer base by, among other things, diversifying our service offerings and continuing with our growth strategy. • The risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our operations and ability to grow. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations and the growth of those operations is an important part of our business strategy. Our current international operations are focused on the shipment of goods into and out of the United States and the Asia Pacific region. Our strategic plan contemplates the growth of those operations as well as expanding into the transportation of goods in other markets. The following factors could adversely affect our current international operations as well as the growth of those operations: • the political and economic systems in certain international markets are less stable than in the United States; • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts exist in certain international markets; • export restrictions, tariffs, licenses and other trade barriers can adversely affect the international trade serviced by our international operations; • managing distant operations with different local market conditions and practices is more difficult than managing domestic operations; • differing technology standards in other countries present difficulties and incremental expense in integrating our services across international markets; • complex foreign laws and treaties can adversely affect our ability to compete; and • our ability to repatriate funds may be limited by tax ramifications and foreign exchange controls. • Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist acts or acts of war or armed conflict could negatively affect our operations in a number of ways. Any of these acts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Acts of terrorism or armed conflict, and the uncertainty caused by such conflicts, could cause an overall reduction in worldwide sales of goods and corresponding shipments of goods. This would have a negative effect on our operations. Also, terrorist activities similar to the type experienced on September 11, 2001 could result in another halt of trading of securities on the American Stock Exchange, which could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our shares and overall market capitalization. 13 Table of Contents • We depend on the continued service of certain executive officers. We can not assure you that we will be able to retain these persons. For the foreseeable future, our success will depend largely on the continued services of Dennis L. Pelino, our Chairman, Jason F. Totah, our Chief Executive Officer, and Robert Arovas, our President and Chief Financial Officer, because of their collective industry knowledge, marketing skills and relationships with major vendors and customers. We have employment agreements with each of these individuals which contain non-competition covenants which survive their actual terms of employment. Nevertheless, should any of these individuals terminate employment with us, it could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. • We face intense competition in our industry. The freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, although the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of freight forwarding and supply chain management services is more limited. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. • Our stock price may be volatile due to factors under, as well as out of, our control. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Some factors that may affect the market price in the future include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products or services by us or our competitors; • a continued weakening of general market conditions which in turn could have a depressive effect on the volume of goods shipped and shipments that we manage or arrange; • acts of global terrorism or armed conflicts; and • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts. Furthermore, the stock market has historically experienced volatility which has particularly affected the market prices of securities of many companies with small market capitalizations and which may be unrelated to the operating performances of such companies. • The accounting treatment that we must apply to the warrant and conversion features contained within the terms of our credit facility may result in periodic volatility of our earnings while these features of the facility are outstanding. The agreements supporting our domestic credit facility and convertible preferred stock contain embedded conversion features, pursuant to which part of the debt and all of the preferred stock may be converted into shares of our common stock at a negotiated conversion price, as well as warrants that we have granted for shares of our common stock at negotiated and varying exercise prices. The applicable accounting rules and guidance require us to treat the conversion features and the warrants as liabilities, rather than as equity instruments. The classification as liabilities also means that we must account for them at fair value and include changes in fair value as a component of other income (expense) for as long as the conversion and warrant rights remain classified as liabilities. Changes in fair value are based upon the market price of our stock and are calculated using the Black-Scholes method of valuation. Thus, as the market price of our stock increases, other expense increases, and as the market price of our stock decreases, other income increases. 14 Table of Contents This “derivative” accounting treatment could therefore result in wide swings of other income (expense) and volatility in our statement of operations. • Our cash flow will be adversely affected in the future once we make use of our consolidated net operating loss carryforward available to offset future taxable income. We have accumulated a net operating loss carryforward for federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $56.0 million of these losses were available to offset our taxable income until the losses are fully utilized. Once these available losses have been utilized, our cash flows will be affected accordingly. We do not anticipate paying federal income taxes in the near future as we expect that our existing net operating loss carryforward should be sufficient to offset any taxable income that is generated. However, additional sales of our securities could have the effect of significantly limiting our ability to utilize our existing net operating loss carryforward in the future if the issuance resulted in a change in ownership, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generally, such a change in ownership will be deemed to have occurred when the percentage of common stock owned by any five-percent shareholder increases by more than 50 percentage points. At that time, the annual net operating loss that may be utilized in subsequent carryforward years is limited to the amount determined by multiplying the fair value of the Company by the tax-exempt long term bond interest rate. • Because we are a holding company, we depend on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries and we could be harmed if such distributions could not be made in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and our ability to receive distributions from those subsidiaries are subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, applicable tax and exchange control laws. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us which would restrict our ability to continue operations. We, as a holding company, require our lender’s consent to declare dividends to our shareholders or make distributions to our subsidiaries. • We believe our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger global companies. We believe the market trend within our industry is towards consolidation of the niche players into larger companies which are attempting to increase global operations through the acquisition of regional and local freight forwarders. If we cannot gain sufficient market presence or otherwise establish a successful strategy in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry with global operations. • We may be required to incur material expenses in defending or resolving outstanding legal disputes which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including those we have identified as material in our periodic Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Although we believe that the claims asserted in these proceedings are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend these matters, we could incur material expenses in the defense and resolution of these matters. Since we have not established any material reserves in connection with these claims, any such liability would be recorded as an expense in the period incurred or estimated. This amount, even if not material to our overall financial condition, could adversely affect our results of operations in the period recorded. • We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our prospects. During 2001, we discontinued our former business model of developing early-stage technology businesses, and adopted a new model of delivering non-asset-based third-party logistics services. The first acquisition under our new business model occurred on October 5, 2001. Subsequent acquisitions were completed during 15 Table of Contents 2002, 2003 and 2004. As a result, we have a limited operating history under our current business model. Even though we are managed by senior executives with significant experience in the industry, our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict the longer-term success of our business model. • Provisions of our charter and applicable Delaware law may make it more difficult to complete a contested takeover of our company. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “GCL”) could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our shareholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the GCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an “interested shareholder”) for three years after the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Finally, our certificate of incorporation includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our Board of Directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. 