ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are potential risks that management considers material and that could affect the future operating results and financial condition of the Bank and the Company. The risks are not listed in any particular order of importance, and there is the potential that there are other risks that have either not been identified or that management believed to be immaterial but which could in fact adversely affect the Bank’s operating results and financial condition. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results The success of the Bank has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by the ability to retain the services of existing senior management. The Bank has benefited from consistency within its senior management team, with its top five executives averaging over 16 years of service with the Bank. The Company has entered into employment contracts with each of these top management officials. Nevertheless, the unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on the business and financial results of the Bank. A significant amount of the Bank’s business is concentrated in lending which is secured by property located in the Catawba Valley and surrounding areas In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If the Bank is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Additionally, with most of the Bank’s loans concentrated in the Catawba Valley and surrounding areas, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of the Bank’s real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on the Bank’s earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Considering such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances within assigned risk grades and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions a nd judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. For further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, see “Allowance for Loan Losses” within “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results and Operation” of this Annual Report, which is included in this Form 10-K as Exhibit 13. 11 Changes in interest rates affect profitability and assets Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt the Bank’s business. The Bank derives its income primarily from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more the Bank earns. When market rates of interest change, the interest the Bank receives on its assets and the interest the Bank pays on its liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in the “spread” and can adversely affect the Bank’s income. Changes in market interest rates could reduce the value of the Bank’s financial assets. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed and related securities and mortgage loans generally decrease in value as intere st rates rise. In addition, interest rates affect how much money the Bank lends. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and the loan originations tend to decrease. If the Bank is unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, the financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations is presented within “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Annual Report which is included in this Form 10-K as Exhibit 13. The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become relu ctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $200 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the State of North Carolina and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. The business environment in North Carolina and the markets in which the Company operates has been less adverse than in the United States generally but continues to deteriorate. It is expected that the business environment in the State of North Carolina, the United States and worldwide will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. 12 The Bank faces strong competition from other banks and financial institutions which can hurt its business The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Bank competes against commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, brokerage firms, investment advisory firms, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Many of these entities are larger organizations with significantly greater financial, management and other resources than the Bank has. Moreover, one national money center commercial bank is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, only 40 miles from the Bank's primary market area. While management believes it can and does successfully compete with other financial institutions in our market, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Government regulations and policies impose limitations and may result in higher operating costs and competitive disadvantages The Bank is subject to extensive federal government supervision and regulation that is intended primarily to protect depositors and the FDIC’s Bank Insurance Fund, rather than the Company’s shareholders. Existing banking laws subject the Bank to substantial limitations with respect to loans, the purchase of securities, the payment of dividends and many other aspects of banking business. Some of the banking laws may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect the Bank and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. There can be no assurance that future legislation or government policy will not adversely affect the banking industry or the Bank’s operations. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect the Bank’s ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfac tory interest spreads. The Government has the ability to change the requirements of the TARP at any time. Future changes in the TARP requirements could adversely affect the Company. Changes in technology may impact the Bank’s business The Bank uses various technologies in its business and the banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Bank’s future success will depend in part on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in the Bank’s operations. The Bank’s competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger public companies which can cause price volatility The trading history of our common stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock, which trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; · press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions in our market, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and · other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling common stock at or above the current market price. We may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect our results of operations In the normal course of business, we may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we are 13 engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice We have in the past paid a quarterly dividend to shareholders. However, we are dependent primarily upon the Bank for our earnings and funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the CPP, the UST has a preferential right to the payment of cumulative dividends on the CPP Series A preferred stock. No dividends are permitted to be paid to common shareholders unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on the CPP preferred stock were fully paid. Any increase in dividends to common shareholders above the amount last declared prior to December 23, 2008 ($0.12 per share quarterly in the case of the Company) is subject to the consent of the UST for the first three years of the CPP preferred stock investment. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Our internal controls may be ineffective Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Impairment of investment securities or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations In assessing the impairment of investment securities, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issues, and the intent and ability of the Corporation to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. 14 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civ il litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New requirements under EESA and changes in the CPP requirements may adversely affect our operations and financial condition Given the current international, national and regional economic climate, it is unclear what effect the provisions of the EESA will have with respect to our profitability and operations. In addition, the US government, either through the UST or some other federal agency, may also advance additional programs that could materially impact our profitability and operations. Liquidity is essential to our businesses Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. Negative publicity could damage our reputation Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: deposit accounts are currently insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest bearing transactional accounts at institutions participating in the Transaction Account Guarantee Program are currently fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the depleted fund. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Further, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of FDIC-insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact requirements of such a rule are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums the 15 Company must pay for FDIC insurance. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 