Risk Factors, under the caption “Risks of Our Business.” General Corporate Matters Our executive offices are located at 1330 Avenue of the Americas, 34th Floor, New York, NY 10019. Our telephone number is (212) 277-1100 and our fax number is (212) 277-1160. Availability of Information We maintain a website at www.nexcenbrands.com, which provides a wide variety of information on each of our brands. You may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. For further information concerning the SEC’s Public Reference Room, you may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Some of this information also may be accessed on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also maintain the following sites for each of the Company's brands and operations: www.theathletesfoot.com, www.greatamericancookies.com, www.maggiemoos.com, www.marbleslab.com, www.pretzeltime.com, www.pretzelmaker.com, and www.shoeboxny.com. We are providing the address of our internet websites solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the internet addresses to be active links in this Report, and the contents of these websites are not incorporated into, and do not constitute a part of, this Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks along with the other information contained in this Report. All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. 13 Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our substantial indebtedness may severely limit cash flow available for our operations, and we may not be able to service our debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $142 million of debt outstanding with BTMUCC. See Note 9 – Long-Term Debt to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Under our Current Credit Facility, substantially all revenues earned by the Company are remitted to “lockbox accounts,” and the terms of our Current Credit Facility limit the amount of cash flow from operations that may be distributed to NexCen for operating expenses, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The Current Credit Facility also prohibits us from securing any additional borrowings without the prior written consent of BTMUCC. Thus, our indebtedness could, among other things: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage if any of our competitors have less debt; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We are subject to numerous prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our interest and principal payment obligations under our outstanding debt, or that cash flow, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our debt. To the extent we are not successful in repaying or renegotiating renewals of our borrowings or in arranging new financing, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in large part on the support of our current and future investors, lenders, franchisees, business partners and employees. Uncertainties with respect to our corporate viability and financial condition may discourage investors from purchasing our stock, lenders from providing additional capital, current and future franchisees from renewing existing agreements or executing new agreements with us, vendors and service providers from dealing with us without prepayment or other credit assurances, and/or current and future employees from committing to us, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to meet our debt obligations would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our Current Credit Facility contains numerous affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, fundamental changes, asset sales, acquisitions, capital and other expenditures, common stock repurchases, dividends and other payments affecting subsidiaries. The Company’s failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under the indebtedness, which could then trigger among other things the lender’s right to accelerate principal payment obligations, foreclose on virtually all of the assets of the Company and take control of all of the Company’s cash flow from operations. These restrictions also may limit our ability to operate our businesses and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. 14 We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to a substantial portion of our debt. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 61% of our current aggregate debt fluctuates with the 30-day London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR"). Any increase in LIBOR will increase our interest expense and could negatively impact our business, liquidity and financial condition. See Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk, under the caption “Interest Rate Risk.” We may need additional funds in the future to continue and/or improve our operations, but we face uncertainties with respect to access to working capital that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that cash generated from operations will provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet the expenses related to ordinary course operations, including our debt service obligations, for at least the next twelve months. Nonetheless, market and economic conditions may worsen and negatively impact our franchisees and our ability to sell new franchises. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our current cash on hand and cash from operations after debt service will continue to satisfy our working capital requirements in the future. We may require future working capital in order to operate, implement our revised business plan and/or further improve operations. We have no committed sources of working capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. Our Current Credit Facility prohibits us from securing any additional borrowings without the prior written consent of our lender and limits the amount of cash flow from operations that may be used for operating expenses, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes. The failure to satisfy our working capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may seek additional funding through strategic alliances or private or public sales of our securities. There can be no assurance, however, that we can obtain additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all, and such funding, if available, may significantly dilute existing shareholders and trigger an ownership change that would limit our ability to utilize our tax loss carry-forwards assuming we have taxable income. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may need to significantly curtail our expenses, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to access capital markets may be constrained. We failed to timely file with the SEC our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for periods ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. Until we are timely in our filings for a period of 12 months, we will be precluded from registering any securities with the SEC on Form S-3, the most simplified registration form used by the SEC. In addition, we are limited under our Current Credit Facility from raising equity in excess of $10 million in either the private or public markets unless certain conditions are met to protect our lender’s interest. As a result, our ability to access the capital markets may be constrained, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Pending Litigation and Governmental Investigations Any adverse outcome of the investigation being conducted by the SEC could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In March 2009, the Company received notice that a formal investigation had been commenced by the SEC in October 2008. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. The legal costs of such investigation and any negative outcome from the investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Several lawsuits have been filed against us involving our past public disclosures, and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A consolidated class action lawsuit, a shareholder derivative lawsuit and a direct lawsuit have been filed against us, as well as certain of our former officers and current and former directors, relating to, among other things, allegations of violations of the securities laws. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. Substantial damages or other monetary remedies assessed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and any requirement to issue additional stock could be dilutive. See Item 3 – Legal Proceedings, for a discussion of these lawsuits. 15 We may not have sufficient insurance to cover our liability in our pending litigation claims and future claims due to coverage limits, as a result of insurance carriers seeking to deny coverage of such claims, or because the insurance carrier is unable to provide coverage, which in any case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks, including securities and shareholder derivative claims, as well as other claims that form the basis of litigation matters pending against us. While we believe these insurance arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability risks, the potential liabilities associated with the litigation matters pending against us, or that could arise in the future, could exceed the coverage provided by such arrangements. Our insurance carriers also may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to pending or future actions. In addition, our primary insurance carrier for securities and shareholder derivative claims is a subsidiary of American Insurance Group, Inc., which has faced significant financial difficulties. If we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, or if the insurance companies are successful in rescinding or denying coverage to us, or if our insurance carrier is unable to provide coverage, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations on our director and officer liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our present and former directors, officers and employees are the subject of lawsuits. Under Delaware law, our bylaws and other contractual arrangements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in relation to completed investigations or pending and/or future investigations and actions. Indemnification payments that we make may be material and, in such event, would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition to the extent insurance does not cover our costs. The insurance carriers that provide our directors’ and officers’ liability policies may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to pending and future investigations and actions, or we may not have sufficient coverage under such policies. If the insurance companies are successful in rescinding or denying coverage to us and/or some of our current and former directors, officers and employees, or we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. The uncertainty of the outcome of the pending litigation and the SEC investigation may have a material adverse effect on our business. The uncertainty and risks of the pending litigation and the SEC investigation may cause our stock price to be more volatile or lower than it otherwise would be and may affect our ability to retain and/or attract franchisees, business partners, investors and/or employees. Risks of Our Business Acquisitions involve numerous risks that we may not be able to address or overcome and that may negatively affect our business and financial results. We have built our brand management business through acquisitions. Our acquisitions may not deliver the benefits we anticipated. Excessive expenses may result if we do not successfully integrate the acquired businesses, or if the costs and management resources we expend in connection with the integrations exceed our expectations. We expect that our previous acquisitions will have a continuing, significant impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of some of the businesses that we acquired are less than the amount we paid, and our financial results may be adversely affected if we fail to realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, including various synergies and economies of scope and scale. Risks associated with our past acquisitions include, among others: · overpaying for acquired assets or businesses; · being unable to license, market or otherwise exploit the assets that we acquired on anticipated terms or at all; · negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition-related expenses, amortization or impairment of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill; · diversion of management's attention from management of day-to-day operational issues; · failing to maintain focus on, or ceasing to execute, core strategies and business plans as our brand portfolio grew and became more diversified; · failing to achieve synergies across our diverse brand portfolio; · failing to acquire or hire additional successful managers, or being unable to retain critical acquired managers; · failing to integrate acquired businesses with our existing businesses due to unanticipated costs and difficulties, which may disrupt our existing businesses or delay or diminish our ability to realize financial and operational benefits from those acquisitions; and 16 · underlying risks of the businesses that we acquired, which differ depending on the brand and its associated business and market, including those related to entering new lines of business or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Our business strategy to focus on our franchised brands may not be successful. The Company’s efforts to focus on the franchise business as our core business may not be successful and may not improve the performance of the Company. We may not be successful in effectively executing our strategy or in generally operating or expanding our brands or integrating them into an efficient overall business strategy. We may not be able to retain existing or attract new investors, franchisees, business partners and employees. We may fail to reach our sales and expense projections, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We establish sales and expense projections each fiscal year based on a strategy of new market development, further penetration of existing markets and tight control over operating expenses against a backdrop of current and anticipated economic conditions. In addition to driving our financial results, these sales and expense projections are provided to our lender, and our progress in meeting projections on a monthly and quarterly basis affect our ability to meet debt and covenant obligations and to negotiate any waivers and/or amendments we may need under our Current Credit Facility. Our ability to meet our sales and expense projections is dependent on our ability to locate and attract new franchisees and area developers; maintain and enhance our brands; maintain satisfactory relations with our franchisees; monitor and audit the reports and payments received from franchisees; maintain or increase same store sales in existing markets; achieve new store openings and control expenses – all of which are dependent on factors both within and outside our control. Our failure to reach our sales and expense goals, which may be exacerbated by current volatile economic conditions, may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. Our business depends on market acceptance of our brands in highly competitive industries. Continued market acceptance of our franchised brands is critical to our future success and subject to great uncertainty. The retail footwear and retail food industries in which we compete are extremely competitive, both in the United States and overseas. Accordingly, we and our current and future franchisees, licensees and other business partners face and will face intense and substantial competition with respect to marketing and expanding products under our franchised brands. As a result, we may not be able to attract franchisees, licensees, and other business partners on favorable terms or at all. In addition, franchisees, licensees and other third parties with whom we deal may not be successful in selling products that make use of our brands. They (and we) also may not be able to expand the distribution of such products and services into new markets. In general, competitive factors include quality, price, style, selection of merchandise, reputation, name recognition, store location, advertising and customer service. The retail footwear and retail food industries are often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing footwear and food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power. Competing brands may have the backing of companies with greater financial and operational stability and greater distribution, marketing, capital and other resources than we or our franchisees and other business partners have. This may increase the obstacles that we and they face in competing successfully. Among other things, we may have to spend more on advertising and marketing or may need to reduce the amounts that we charge franchisees, licensees and other business partners. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Deterioration of general economic conditions and declines in consumer spending can negatively affect our business. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Market and general economic conditions affect the level of discretionary spending on the merchandise we and our franchisees offer, including general business conditions, interest rates, taxation, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Any unfavorable occurrences in these economic conditions on a local, regional, national or multi-national level may adversely affect our growth, sales and profitability. Given the significance of our domestic business, the likely negative impact of the current recession in the general economy in the United States or the general decline in domestic consumer spending may not be wholly mitigated by our business outside the United States, especially as the economic downturn has become more global in nature. Many of our franchisees’ stores are located in shopping malls, particularly in the United States. Our franchisees derive revenue, in part, from the high volume of traffic in these malls. As a result of deteriorating economic conditions, the inability of mall "anchor" tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our franchised stores or the decline in popularity of malls as shopping destinations could reduce our franchising revenue dependent on sales volume. 17 Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our franchisees, over which we have limited control. As a result of our franchising programs, our operating results are dependent upon the sales volumes and viability of our franchisees. Any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results, and the quality of franchised operations may be impacted by factors that are not in our control. We provide training and support to our franchisees, but do not exercise day-to-day control over them. Franchisees may not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. In addition, franchisees may not be able to find suitable sites on which to develop stores, negotiate acceptable leases for the sites, obtain the necessary permits or government approvals or meet construction schedules. Any of these problems could negatively impact our business, could slow our planned growth and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current disruptions in the availability of financing for current and prospective franchisees may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of steep declines in the capital markets and the severe limits on credit availability, current and prospective franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the units contemplated by franchise or development agreements. Our franchisees generally depend upon financing from banks or other financial institutions in order to construct and open new units. Especially in this tight credit environment, financing has been difficult to obtain for some of our current and prospective franchisees. The continued difficulties with franchisee financing could reduce our store count, franchise fee revenues and royalty revenues, slow our planned growth, and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our franchisees to provide timely and accurate information about their sales and operations, which we rely upon to effectively manage the franchised brands. Franchisees are contractually obligated to provide timely and accurate information regarding their sales and operations, and we rely on this information to collect royalties and manage the franchised brands. Most of franchisees are required to report on a weekly basis. However, the franchise agreements for our TAF brand require reporting on a monthly or quarterly, versus weekly, basis. This delay in reporting reduces our visibility into the results of operations for the TAF brand. In addition, a significant number of our franchisees are not consistently compliant with their reporting obligations. Our inability to collect timely and accurate information from our franchisees may adversely affect our business and results of operation. Significant delays in registering our franchise offering documents may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many states and the Federal Trade Commission, as well as certain foreign countries, require franchisors to transmit disclosure statements to potential franchisees before granting a franchise. Additionally, some states and certain foreign countries require us to register our franchise offering documents before we may offer a franchise. Due to the scope of our business and the complexity of franchise regulations, we may encounter compliance issues from time to time. Significant delays in registering our franchise offering documents may prevent us from selling franchises in certain jurisdictions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our franchisees operate in approximately 40 countries. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities for our franchised brands outside the United States, which could expose us to greater risks. The risks associated with our franchise business outside the United States include: · Political and economic instability or civil unrest; · Armed conflict, natural disasters or terrorism; · Health concerns or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; · Multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that differ between jurisdictions; · Changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements effecting trade and investment; · Differences from one country to the next in legal protections applicable to intellectual property assets, including trademarks and similar assets, enforcement of such protections and remedies available for infringements; · Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; and 18 · Adverse consequences from changes in tax laws. The effects of these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are vital to our success, the success of our brands and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the development and protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. However, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property by others, which may thereby dilute our brands in the marketplace and/or diminish the value of our proprietary rights. We also may be unable to prevent others from claiming infringement or other unauthorized use of their trademarks and intellectual property rights by us. Our rights to our trademarks may in some cases be subject to the common law or statutory rights of any person who filed an application and/or began using the trademark (or confusingly similar mark) prior to the date of our application and/or our first use of such trademarks in the relevant territory. We cannot provide assurances that third parties will not assert claims against our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or that we will be able to successfully resolve such claims, which could result in our inability to use certain trademarks or other intellectual property in certain jurisdictions or in connection with certain goods or services. Future actions by third parties, including franchisees or licensees, may diminish the strength of our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, injure the goodwill associated with our business and decrease our competitive strength and performance. We also could incur substantial costs to defend or pursue legal actions relating to the use of our trademarks and other intellectual rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges for goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets with indefinite or long lives. As a result of our acquisition strategy, we recorded a material amount of trademark, goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite or long lives on our balance sheet. We assess these assets as and when required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to determine whether they are impaired. Based on our review in fiscal year 2008, we recorded impairments totaling approximately $242 million in 2008 with respect to our acquired assets. If market conditions continue to deteriorate or if operating results decline unexpectedly, we may be required to record additional impairment charges. Additional impairment charges would reduce our reported earnings for the periods in which they are recorded. Those reductions could be material and, in such event, would adversely affect our financial results. We determined that we had material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any future material weaknesses could adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our ability to carry out our strategic business plan. As discussed in Item 9A(T) – Controls and Procedures, we concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective. We made substantial changes to our management team and management structure; improved board communication and corporate governance; made changes to and increased the number of dedicated full-time accounting personnel; and enhanced internal control policies and procedures. Nonetheless, if we are unsuccessful in our effort to remedy the weaknesses in our financial reporting mechanisms and internal controls and to maintain effective corporate governance practices, our business, our financial condition, our ability to carry out our strategic business plan, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately in a timely manner, and our ability to retain the trust of our franchisees, lender, business partners, investors, employees and shareholders could be adversely affected. The time, effort and expense related to internal and external investigations, litigation, the completion of our delinquent SEC filings, and the development and implementation of improved internal controls and procedures, have had an adverse effect on our business. Our management team has spent considerable time, effort and expense in dealing with the Audit Committee investigation, pending litigation, the SEC’s investigation, completing our delinquent SEC filings and in developing and implementing accounting policies and procedures, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This has prevented management from devoting its full attention to our business and many of these matters may continue to distract management’s attention in the future. The significant time, effort and expense spent have adversely affected our operations and our financial condition, and may continue to do so in the future. 19 Current and prospective investors, franchisees, business partners, and employees may react adversely to our inability to file in a timely manner all of our SEC filings. Our inability to file on a timely basis all of our SEC filings has caused negative publicity about us, has resulted in the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, and has, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, any future delays in our SEC filings could cause current and future investors, franchisees, business partners and employees to lose confidence in our Company, which may affect their willingness to remain in current relationships or enter into new relationships with us. Our stock trades on the over-the-counter “Pink Sheets” market, and our stock price may be volatile. On January 13, 2009, as a result of noncompliance with NASDAQ listing requirements, our common stock was suspended from trading on NASDAQ. Immediately thereafter, our stock began trading under the symbol NEXC.PK on the Pink OTC Markets, formerly known as the Pink Sheets. Although we plan to apply for relisting of our stock on NASDAQ as soon as we are in compliance with the listing requirements, we may not be successful in that effort. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future. Limits on ownership of our common stock could have an adverse consequence to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock. Under transfer restrictions that have been applicable to our common stock since 2005, acquisitions of 5% or more of our stock is not permitted without the consent of our Board of Directors. In addition, even if our Board of Directors consented to a significant stock acquisition, a potential buyer might be deterred from acquiring our common stock while we still have significant tax losses being carried forward, because such an acquisition might trigger an ownership change and severely impair our ability to use our tax losses against future income. Thus, this potential tax situation could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could affect adversely our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with a change in control. The transfer restrictions that apply to shares of our common stock, although designed as a protective measure to avoid an ownership change, may have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such a transaction may be favorable to the interests of some or all of our shareholders. This effect might prevent our stockholders from realizing an opportunity to sell all or a portion of their common stock at a premium to the prevailing market price. Our ability to realize value from our tax loss carry-forwards is subject to significant uncertainty. As of December 31, 2008, we had federal net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $823 million that expire at various dates through 2028. In addition, we had capital loss carry-forwards of approximately $149 million that expire between 2009 and 2011. However, our ability to realize value from our tax loss carry-forwards is subject to significant uncertainty. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income or capital gains in future years to use the net operating loss carry-forwards or capital loss carry-forwards before they expire. This is especially true for our capital loss carry-forwards, because they expire over a shorter period of time than our net operating loss carry-forwards. The amount of our net operating loss carry-forwards and capital loss carry-forwards also has not been audited or otherwise validated by the IRS. The IRS could challenge the amount of our net operating loss carry-forwards and capital loss carry-forwards, which could result in an increase in our liability for income taxes. 20 In addition, if we have an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our net operating loss carry-forwards and capital loss carry-forwards generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of these losses. As of the date of this Report, we do not believe that we have experienced an ownership change as defined under Section 382 resulting from transfer of shares by our existing shareholders. However, the Company has entered into recent amendments of our credit facility, which may have resulted in a change of control as defined by Section 382. We are in the process of assessing the impact of those amendments and what limitations, if any, we may be subject to under Section 382. Even if these amendments to our credit facility did not result in a change of control as defined by Section 382, we cannot guarantee that we will not enter into other transactions or that transfers of stock will not occur, which may result in an ownership change that would severely limit our ability to use our loss our net operating loss carry-forwards and capital loss carry-forwards to offset future taxable income. For additional information regarding our deferred tax assets, see Note 10 – Income Taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 