Item 1A. Risk Factors The most significant risks and uncertainties we face are described below, but other risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we currently believe are not material or are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. If any of the following risks, or any of the risks described in the other documents we file with the SEC and Canadian securities regulatory authorities, actually occur or increase, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that case, our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our debt securities may be limited and the trading price of the shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock or other securities could decline substantially and investors may lose all or part of the value of the shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock or other securities held by them. Risks Regarding Our Company We expect that during 2006 we will require additional financing to fund our current planned operations and the implementation of our strategic plan, but we may not be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. We expect that during 2006, we will be required to seek additional debt and/or equity financing in order to fund our current planned operations and the implementation of our strategic plan, including capitalizing on future growth opportunities. We also intend to generate cash by selling some of our real estate holdings and other assets in order to fund our current planned operations and certain portions of our strategic plan. If additional financing or other sources of funds are not available to us as needed, or are not available on terms that are acceptable to us, our business, operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, including, among other things, our ability to add alternative gaming to our racetracks where permitted or improve or expand our operations as planned. We have already entered into numerous financing arrangements secured by significant portions of our assets, which will limit our ability to provide security for new loans. Please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Working Capital, Cash and Other Resources". Following their expiry, there can be no assurance that the amounts, terms and conditions involved in the renewal or extension of our existing financing arrangements will be favorable, or that we will be able to renew or extend any of these financing arrangements at all. If we are unable to renew or extend our financing arrangements when due, on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 36 Our senior secured revolving credit facility imposes important restrictions on us. Our senior revolving credit facility, which matures on July 31, 2006, requires us to maintain earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of not less than $11.0 million at Santa Anita Park and $4.0 million at Golden Gate Fields, respectively, calculated on a rolling 12 month basis. This revolving credit facility is secured by a first charge on the assets of Golden Gate Fields and a second charge on the assets of Santa Anita Park and are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries which own and operate Golden Gate Fields and Santa Anita Park. The credit agreement also contains customary covenants relating to our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make future acquisitions, enter into certain related party transactions, consummate asset dispositions, incur capital expenditures and make restricted payments. These restrictions may limit our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and obtain additional funds. Our ability to meet these financial covenants may be adversely affected by a deterioration in business conditions or our results of operations, adverse regulatory developments and other events beyond our control. At December 31, 2005, we were not in compliance with one of the financial covenants contained in the credit agreement. A waiver was obtained from the lender for the financial covenant breach at December 31, 2005. It is possible that we may not be able to meet the financial covenants under our $50.0 million senior revolving credit facility at the quarterly reporting dates during the remaining term of the facility. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in the occurrence of an event of default under the senior, revolving credit facility and trigger a cross-default under certain of our other credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender may terminate the senior, revolving credit facility, demand immediate payment of all amounts borrowed by us and require adequate security or collateral for all outstanding letters of credit outstanding under the facility, which could adversely affect our ability to repay our debt securities and would adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. Our bridge loan imposes important restrictions on us. Our bridge loan with a subsidiary of our parent company, MI Developments Inc., which matures on August 31, 2006, requires us to maintain earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of not less than $11.0 million at Santa Anita Park and $4.0 million at Golden Gate Fields, respectively, calculated on a rolling 12 month basis. This bridge loan was originally secured by a second charge on the assets of Golden Gate Fields, a third charge on the assets of Santa Anita Park and a first charge over the assets of The Meadows and was guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries, including those which own and operate Golden Gate Fields, Santa Anita Park, The Meadows, Gulfstream Park, Palm Meadows and San Luis Rey Downs. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2006, first charges on the lands owned by four MEC subsidiaries were put in place as additional security. The lands are those commonly referred to by us as Thistledown, the Dixon Land, San Luis Rey Downs and the New York Porter lands. In addition, a guarantee was provided by those subsidiaries which own and/or operate Thistledown and the New York Porter lands. Our bridge loan also contains customary covenants relating to our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make future acquisitions, enter into certain related party transactions, consummate asset dispositions, incur capital expenditures and make restricted payments. These restrictions may limit our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and obtain additional funds. Our ability to meet these financial covenants may be adversely affected by a deterioration in business conditions or our results of operations, adverse regulatory developments and other events beyond our control. At December 31, 2005, we were not in compliance with one of the financial covenants contained in the bridge loan agreement. A waiver was obtained from the lender for the financial covenant breach at December 31, 2005. It is possible that we may not be able to meet the financial covenants under our bridge loan at the quarterly reporting dates during the remaining term of the facility. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in the occurrence of an event of default under the bridge loan and trigger a cross-default under certain of our other credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender may terminate the bridge loan, demand immediate payment of all amounts borrowed by us and require adequate security or collateral for all outstanding security under the bridge loan, which could adversely affect our ability to repay our debt securities and would adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. In addition, the bridge loan provides that, subject to certain specified exemptions, the proceeds of any debt or equity offering or asset sale must be used to reduce outstanding indebtedness under the bridge loan or other specified indebtedness. This restriction severely limits our ability to use the proceeds of any debt or equity offering or asset sale to grow our business. 37 Repayments under our Gulfstream Park Construction Loan and Remington Park Construction Loan impose limitations on the amount of funds available to grow those business. Beginning on January 1, 2007, each of our Gulfstream Park Construction Loan, which matures in 2016, and Remington Park Construction Loan, which matures in 2015, require that repayment of interest on the amounts outstanding. These interest payments will limit the amount of funds available to invest back into the racetracks. In addition, the Remington Construction Loan further provides that certain cash from the operations of Remington Park must be used to pay deferred interest on the loan, plus a portion of the principal under the loan equal to the deferred interest on the Gulfstream Park Construction Loan. This requirement will further limit the funds available to grow our business. Each of our senior revolving credit facility and our bridge loan matures in 2006. Our $50.0 million senior revolving credit facility matures on July 31, 2006 and our $100.0 million bridge loan matures on August 31, 2006. We will need to be able to repay these facilities when they become due, extend the terms of the agreements or find alternative financing arrangements acceptable to us. There is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. This would adversely affect our ability to repay our debt securities and would adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. Our operating income includes gains from the sale of non-core real estate, which sales may soon cease, causing our future operating income and cash flow to decrease. We generated earnings of approximately $0, $9.6 million, $0 and $2.2 million, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, from non-core real estate sales. Although we may realize some gains from sales of our non-core real estate over the next year or so, we expect those gains to be reduced to zero as the balance of our non-core real estate portfolio is sold. As a result, our short-term and annual operating income and cash flow may be adversely affected by decreases in non-core real estate sales. If we do not replace these gains or offset these decreases with additional operating income and cash flow from our racetrack operations and other sources, our future operating income and cash flow will decline. Our business is heavily concentrated at certain of our racetracks. Six of our racetracks, Santa Anita Park, Laurel Park, Pimlico Race Course, Gulfstream Park, Lone Star Park and Golden Gate Fields accounted for approximately 70.6% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. If a business interruption were to occur and continue for a significant length of time at any of these racetracks, it could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, certain of our other racetrack properties have experienced operating losses before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization over the past three years. The operating performance of these racetracks may not improve in the future. In the state of Maryland, our operating agreement with the owner of Rosecroft Raceway expired on April 30, 2005. The Maryland Jockey Club, the trade name for the entities that own and operate Pimlico and Laurel Park, is a party to an agreement (the "Maryland Operating Agreement") with Cloverleaf Enterprises, Inc., the current owner of Rosecroft Raceway, a standardbred track located in Prince George's County in Maryland. The Maryland Operating Agreement replaced a previous agreement (the "Maryland Revenue Sharing Agreement"), which was effective as of January 1, 2000 and expired on April 18, 2004. The Maryland Operating Agreement has been in effect since June 9, 2004 and expired on April 30, 2005, however, both parties continue to informally operate under its terms until a new agreement can be finalized. 38 The Maryland Revenue Sharing Agreement enabled wagering to be conducted, both day and evening, on live and simulcast thoroughbred and harness races at Pimlico, Laurel Park and Rosecroft and the three Maryland OTBs operated by them. Under the Maryland Revenue Sharing Agreement, wagering revenue from these sources was pooled and certain expenses and obligations were pooled and paid from those revenues to generate net wagering revenue. This net wagering revenue was then distributed 80% to The Maryland Jockey Club and 20% to Rosecroft. Commencing April 19, 2004, The Maryland Jockey Club and Rosecroft no longer pool their wagering revenue and distribute net wagering revenue as they did under the Maryland Revenue Sharing Agreement. For a period from April 19, 2004 until June 9, 2004, The Maryland Jockey Club and Rosecroft each conducted simulcast wagering under a combination of state law, which precluded The Maryland Jockey Club from operating after 6:15 p.m. without Rosecroft's consent, and the federal Interstate Horseracing Act, which provides that, without the consent of The Maryland Jockey Club, Rosecroft cannot accept simulcast wagering on horse racing during the times that either Pimlico or Laurel Park is running live races. Since coming into effect on June 9, 2004, the Maryland Operating Agreement has enabled Pimlico, Laurel Park and Rosecroft to conduct simulcast wagering on thoroughbred and harness race signals during the day and evening hours without restriction. Under the Maryland Operating Agreement, Cloverleaf pays the thoroughbred industry a 12% premium on pari-mutuel wagering (net of refunds) conducted at Rosecroft on all thoroughbred race signals, and The Maryland Jockey Club agrees to pay Cloverleaf a 12% premium on pari-mutuel wagering (net of refunds) conducted at Pimlico and Laurel on all standardbred race signals. Under the Maryland Operating Agreement, the parties have agreed to make a good faith effort to reach a long-term agreement on cross-breed simulcasting and OTB facilities in the State of Maryland. Without an arrangement similar in effect to the Maryland Revenue Sharing Agreement or the Maryland Operating Agreement, there would be a material decline in the revenues, earnings and purses of The Maryland Jockey Club. At this time, the Company is uncertain as to the likelihood of a renewal of this agreement on comparable terms. In addition, the Company is uncertain whether the Maryland General Assembly will pass legislation that addresses the simulcast issue, including the possibility of giving broader simulcast rights to the owners of Rosecroft. Any failure to reach a long-term agreement with Rosecroft similar to the Maryland Revenue Sharing Agreement or the Maryland Operating Agreement or any enactment of legislation that gives broader simulcast rights to Rosecroft could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are controlled by MI Developments Inc. and therefore MI Developments Inc. is able to prevent any takeover of us by a third party. MI Developments Inc. owns all our outstanding Class B Stock, which is entitled to 20 votes per share, and approximately 4.36 million shares of our Class A Stock, and therefore is able to exercise approximately 96% of the total voting power of our outstanding stock. It is therefore able to elect all our directors and to control us. As a result, MI Developments Inc. is able to cause or prevent a change in our control. Our relationship with MI Developments Inc. is not at "arm's length", and therefore MI Developments Inc. may influence us to make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. Our relationship with MI Developments Inc. is not at "arm's length". In addition to the ownership of our stock as described in the preceding risk factor (and in the risks described below in "— Risks Relating to Our Securities — Sales or a spin-off or other distribution of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock by MI Developments Inc. or by certain of our other significant stockholders under our registration statements could depress our stock price"), two members of our board of directors are also members of MI Development Inc.'s board of directors, including our chairman and vice-chairman, each of whom hold the same position with MI Developments Inc. In some cases, the interests of MI Developments Inc. may not be the same as those of our other stockholders, and conflicts of interest may arise from time to time that may be resolved in a manner detrimental to us or our minority stockholders. MI Developments Inc. is able to cause us to effect certain corporate transactions without the consent of the holders of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock, subject to applicable law and the fiduciary duties of our directors and officers. Consequently, transactions effected between us and MI Developments Inc. may not be on the same terms as could be obtained from independent parties, resulting in the possibility of our minority stockholders' interests being compromised. See "— Our History" above. We may not be able to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, in particular in respect of our search for a successor Chief Executive Officer. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain qualified personnel, particularly in key senior management positions and particularly as it pertains to our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of key managers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may find it difficult to attract and retain a qualified Chief Executive Officer because of our management changes, the uncertainty facing our business, and the specific horseracing and gaming industry knowledge we are searching for. If we are not successful in promptly hiring a successor Chief Executive Officer, we may not have the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. 39 We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations which could aversely affect our profitability as reported in U.S. Dollars. Our business outside the United States is generally transacted in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our operating results. Moreover, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to currencies in which earnings are generated outside the United States could result in a reduction in our profitability as reported in U.S. dollars. Risks Relating to Our Wagering and Gaming Operations The passage of legislation permitting alternative gaming at racetracks, such as slot machines, VLTs and other forms of non-pari-mutuel gaming, can be a long and uncertain process. A decision to prohibit, delay or remove alternative gaming rights at racetracks by the government or the citizens of a state, or other jurisdiction, in which we own or operate a racetrack, could adversely affect our business or prospects. There has been speculation, by members of the media, investment analysts and our employees and other representatives, as to the probability and potential impact of the passage of legislation permitting alternative gaming at racetracks in various states in the United States. In 2004, Pennsylvania passed legislation enabling racetracks to apply for licenses to operate slots or other legal electronic gaming machines and we have filed an application with the Pennsylvania State Gaming Control Board for a license to conduct slots at The Meadows racetrack in Pennsylvania. See "Our Properties — The Meadows" above for more details. In addition, on December 8, 2005 voters in Broward County approved a local referendum that would permit electronic gaming to be conducted by pari-mutuel operators located in that county. Chapter 551 of the Florida Statutes was signed into law by Governor Jeb Bush on January 4, 2006. Under the terms of this legislation, Gulfstream Park and three other pari-mutuel facilities in Broward County are permitted up to 1,500 slot machines at each of their gaming facilities. The Florida Division of Pari-Mutuel Wagering is currently in the process of drafting rules to regulate gaming at these four pari-mutuel facilities. There is a provision in the legislation that requires the Division of Pari-Mutuel Wagering to issue us a temporary license, provided we are in good standing under our pari-mutuel license, 180 days following the effective date of the Act (this would be July 3, 2006) if it has not by then adopted rules allowing for the issuance of permanent slot machine licenses within such time period. The temporary license would then roll into a permanent license once the rules are adopted, provided we meet the licensing requirements. See "Our Properties — Gulfstream Park" above for more details. Notwithstanding the passage of legislation permitting slots and electronic gaming in Pennsylvania and Broward County, Florida, there can be no assurance that alternative gaming will be permitted at our racetracks located in those jurisdictions until the applicable license is granted and if alternative gaming is permitted at any of our racetracks, what the timetable, conditions, costs and profitability of such alternative gaming operations will be. In the event that we do not obtain the required licenses to operate alternative gaming in these jurisdictions within the timeframe anticipated by our stockholders, investment analysts and other interested parties, or at all, the market price for our securities may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, other states are at various stages of considering alternative gaming but there can be no assurance that alternative gaming at racetracks will become permitted in those states, or if it does, what the timetable, conditions, terms of income or revenue sharing, or other feasibility factors will be. In the event that alternative gaming legislation is enacted in additional jurisdictions, there can be no certainty as to the terms of such legislation or regulations, including the timetable for commencement, the conditions and feasibility of operation and whether alternative gaming rights are to be limited to racetracks. If we proceed to conduct alternative gaming at any of our racetracks, there may be significant costs and other resources to be expended, and there will be significant risks involved, including the risk of changes in the enabling legislation, that may have a material adverse effect on the relevant racetrack's operations and profitability. 40 The regulatory risks and uncertainties that are inherent in the conduct of alternative gaming also apply in other jurisdictions outside the United States. The Magna Racino™, located approximately 20 miles south of Vienna, Austria, serves as landlord to VLT operations conducted by a licensed casino operator. Under that arrangement, the racetrack retains 50% of the gross profit (excluding certain costs). This arrangement has an indefinite term (with a minimum 5 year term ending in September 2009) and is terminable by either party on 12 months prior notice. There can be no assurance as to how long this arrangement will continue, and if it does, whether the terms will remain the same. A decline in the popularity of horse racing could adversely impact our business. The continued popularity of horse racing is important to our growth plans and our operating results. Our business plan anticipates our attracting new customers to our racetracks, off-track betting facilities and account wagering operations. Even if we are successful in making acquisitions and expanding and improving our current operations, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of new customers to achieve our business plan. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any decline in interest in horse racing or any change in public tastes may adversely affect our revenues and, therefore, our operating results. Declining on-track attendance and increasing competition in simulcasting may materially adversely affect our operating results. There has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering at live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other forms of gaming, unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track and account wagering. The declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, could lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at our facilities and on races conducted at our racetracks and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Our strategy of increasing international distribution of North American horse racing may not be successful. We believe that there is a demand for North American horse racing in the international market, but we may not be correct in our belief. Our plan to distribute our content internationally has not been successfully carried out by any other company to date. We are spending financial capital and deploying human capital in an effort to capture the international market. If we are not successful, it may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet any future revenue expectations and, therefore, our operating results. Both our pari-mutuel gaming and alternative gaming activities at racetracks are dependent on governmental regulation and approvals. Amendments to such regulation or the failure to obtain such approvals could adversely affect our business. All our pari-mutuel wagering and alternative gaming operations at racetracks are contingent upon the continued governmental approval of these operations as forms of legalized gaming. All our current gaming operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation and could be subjected at any time to additional or more restrictive regulation, or banned entirely. 41 We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our pari-mutuel wagering and other gaming facilities. Licenses to conduct live horse racing and wagering, simulcast wagering and alternative gaming at racetracks must be obtained from each jurisdiction's regulatory authority, in many cases annually. In addition, licenses or approvals to conduct account wagering must be obtained in certain jurisdictions in which our account wagering customers reside, in many cases annually. The denial, loss or non-renewal of any of our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals may materially limit the number of races we conduct or the form or types of pari-mutuel wagering and other gaming activities we offer, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we currently devote significant financial and management resources to complying with the various governmental regulations to which our operations are subject. Any significant increase in governmental regulation would increase the amount of our resources devoted to governmental compliance, could substantially restrict our business, and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Any future expansion of our pari-mutuel and gaming operations will likely require us to obtain additional governmental approvals or, in some cases, amendments to current laws governing such activities. The high degree of regulation in the pari-mutuel and gaming industry is a significant obstacle to our growth strategy, especially with respect to alternative gaming at racetracks and account wagering, including telephone, interactive television and Internet-based wagering. We currently are only able to offer non-pari-mutuel gaming at Remington Park in the United States, expect to be able to open facilities at Gulfstream Park in 2006 and gaming will be legal at The Meadows in 2006. Account wagering in the United States may currently be conducted only through hubs or bases located in certain states. Our expansion opportunities with respect to account wagering will be limited unless more states amend their laws to permit account wagering or, in the alternative, if states take action to make such activities unlawful. In addition, the licensing and legislative amendment processes can be both lengthy and costly, and we may not be successful in obtaining required legislation, licenses, registrations, permits and approvals. In the past, certain state attorneys general, district attorneys and other law enforcement officials have expressed concern over the legality of interstate account wagering. In December 2000, legislation was enacted in the United States that amends the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978. We believe that this amendment clarifies that inter-track simulcasting, off-track betting and account wagering, as currently conducted by the U.S. horse racing industry, are authorized under U.S. federal law. The amendment may not be interpreted in this manner by all concerned, however, and there may be challenges to these activities by both state and federal law enforcement authorities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. From time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation that would either inhibit or restrict Internet gambling in general or inhibit or restrict the use of certain financial instruments, including credit cards, to provide funds for account wagering. For example, on June 13, 2003, the United States House of Representatives approved a bill in the form of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Funding Prohibition Act that, if enacted, would prohibit the use of credit cards, checks, electronic funds transfers and certain other funding methods for most forms of Internet gambling. The United States Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee adopted a different bill with a similar effect on August 31, 2003; however, neither this bill nor the House-passed version were considered by the full Senate before the end of the 2003-2004 Congressional session and therefore both bills expired. In 2005, a similar bill was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives containing exemptions which we believe are intended at the very least to permit such funding for pari-mutuel account wagering under certain conditions in states that authorize pari-mutuel account wagering. It is unclear, however, whether and to what extent such exemptions will remain in the current legislation or any future Internet gambling funding bill that ultimately may be enacted, or the extent to which we will be able to utilize those exemptions with respect to our account wagering operations as currently conducted. In February 2006, another bill was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives which seeks to amend the Federal Wire Act by placing further limits on the conduct of internet gaming. We believe that this bill, as with the current Unlawful Internet Gambling Funding Prohibition Act, includes an exemption for pari-mutuel wagers placed pursuant to the Federal Interstate Horseracing Act. As with any piece of legislation, however, it is difficult to predict the ultimate chances for passage of these or future bills. We nonetheless anticipate that legislation will continue to be introduced in the United States Congress or elsewhere that will seek to restrict, regulate or potentially ban altogether Internet gambling, including account wagering. 42 Furthermore, even in the absence of such legislation, certain financial institutions have begun to block the use of credit cards issued by them for Internet gambling, either voluntarily or as part of a settlement with the office of the Attorney General for New York. Legislation or actions of this nature, if enacted or implemented without providing for a meaningful exception to allow account wagering to be conducted as it is currently being conducted by the U.S. horse racing industry, could inhibit account wagering by restricting or prohibiting its use altogether or, at a minimum, by restricting or prohibiting the use of credit cards and other commonly used financial instruments to fund wagering accounts. If enacted or implemented, these or any other forms of legislation or practices restricting account wagering could cause our business and its growth to suffer. The U.S. Federal Government's response to a recent ruling by the World Trade Organization on the U.S.'s internet gambling policy could adversely affect our financial performance. In the spring of 2005, the World Trade Organization Appellate Body ruled that a claim from the island country of Antigua regarding U.S. federal policy regarding international gambling may have merit due to an apparent inconsistency in how the U.S. treats interstate pari-mutuel wagers under the Interstate Horseracing Act and all other sports wagers, both on an interstate and international basis. The WTO Appellate Body ruled that the Interstate Horseracing Act raised questions regarding whether the U.S. has taken a consistently negative position regarding internet wagering across state and international boundaries. As a part of its ruling, the WTO Appellate Body ordered the U.S. to clarify its position on interstate pari-mutuel wagering on or before April 3, 2006. One of the options available to Congress and the White House is to outlaw or restrict substantially the conduct of interstate simulcast wagering and account wagering. If the Federal government elects to take such an approach, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and financial performance. Alternatively, if offshore wagering is permitted into the United States, that also could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance. Uncertainty as to the effect of Congress' attempt to eliminate the federal income tax withholding requirement on winning wagers by foreign nationals could delay our ability to open our pools to foreign wagers or subject us to tax liability. In October 2004, a bill was implemented that will enable U.S. pari-mutuel wagering operators to accept foreign wagers into their pari-mutuel pools. The previous law required U.S. pari-mutuel wagering operators to withhold federal income tax on any winning wagers placed by foreign nationals. Any failure to withhold income tax from these wagers would make the payer entity liable instead. We believe that the new law reflects Congress' intent to eliminate the tax withholding requirement from winning pari-mutuel wagers placed by foreign nationals. In the absence of specific rules expressing how this new law is to be interpreted, however, there is a risk that the law will be interpreted differently from Congress' apparent intent, thus imposing an obligation on tracks to continue withholding federal income tax from winning wagers by foreign nationals. This uncertainty either could affect the rate at which we open our pools to foreign-based bettors or could expose us to tax liability if it is determined that our method for accepting foreign wagers into our pools is incorrect. Any resulting delay in opening our pools or tax liability imposed could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and financial performance. 43 Ongoing litigation concerning our proposed facility in Romulus, Michigan, could threaten the license issued for that facility or cause us to expend greater sums to defend it. On May 17, 2005, the Michigan Office of Racing Commissioner awarded a racetrack license to our subsidiary, Michigan Racing, Inc., that would allow us to construct and operate a thoroughbred racetrack in Romulus, Michigan. Appeals to this award have been filed by an existing racetrack operator in Northville, Michigan, and by a competing applicant who proposed an alternative site in the Detroit metropolitan area. If either appeal succeeds in reversing or negating the license awarded to us, we could face either substantial losses associated with the unsuccessful efforts to secure and maintain this license or additional costs associated with reestablishing our right to receive this license. We may not be able to install synthetic racing surfaces at our California tracks on the timeline set out by the California Horse Racing Board. In February 2006, the CHRB passed a motion which would require all thoroughbred racetracks in California to install synthetic racing surfaces by the end of 2007 or lose race dates. We are currently evaluating the options available at Santa Anita and Golden Gate Fields and are in discussions with the CHRB, but it is unclear that we will be able to meet the timeline set out by the CHRB. It is possible that this could put our 2008 racing meets at Santa Anita and Golden Gate Fields in jeopardy and this would have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and operating results. We face significant competition from other racetrack operators, including those in states where more extensive gaming options are authorized, which could hurt our operating results. We face significant competition in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate racetracks and we expect this competition to intensify as new racetrack operators enter our markets and existing competitors expand their operations and consolidate management of multiple racetracks. In addition, the introduction of legislation enabling slot machines or VLTs to be installed at racetracks in certain states allows those racetracks to increase their purses and compete more effectively with us for horse owners, trainers and customers. One of our competitors, CDI, has been in operation for a much longer period of time than we have and may have greater name recognition. Competition from existing racetrack operators, as well as the addition of new competitors, may hurt our future performance and operating results. Competition from non-racetrack gaming operators may reduce the amount wagered at our facilities and materially adversely affect our operating results. We compete for customers with casinos, sports wagering services and other non-racetrack gaming operators, including government-sponsored lotteries, which benefit from numerous distribution channels, including supermarkets and convenience stores, as well as from frequent and extensive advertising campaigns. We do not enjoy the same access to the gaming public or possess the advertising resources that are available to government-sponsored lotteries as well as some of our other non-racetrack competitors, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with them. We currently face significant competition from Internet and other forms of account wagering, which may reduce our profitability. Internet and other account wagering gaming services allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and casino games from home. Christiansen Capital Advisors LLC estimated global consumer spending on Internet gaming in 2004 at $8.2 million and in the United States alone this spending amounted to $4.2 million in 2004. Although many on-line wagering services are operating from offshore locations in violation of U.S. law by accepting wagers from U.S. residents, they may divert wagering dollars from legitimate wagering venues such as our racetracks and account wagering operations. Moreover, our racetrack operations generally require greater ongoing capital expenditures in order to expand our business than the capital expenditures required by Internet and other account wagering gaming operators. Currently, we cannot offer the diverse gaming options provided by many Internet and other account wagering gaming operators and may face significantly greater costs in operating our business. Our inability to compete successfully with these operators could hurt our business. 44 In addition, the market for account wagering is affected by changing technology. Our ability to anticipate such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced services on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to expand, remain competitive and attract new customers. Expansion of gaming conducted by Native American groups may lead to increased competition in our industry, which may negatively impact our growth and profitability. In March 2000, the California state constitution was amended, resulting in the expansion of gaming activities permitted to be conducted by Native American groups in California. This has led to, and may continue to lead to, increased competition and may have an adverse effect on the profitability of Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields and our future growth in California. It may also affect the purses that those tracks are able to offer and therefore adversely affect our ability to attract top horses. Several Native American groups in Florida have recently expressed interest in opening or expanding existing casinos in southern Florida, which could compete with Gulfstream Park and reduce its profitability. Moreover, other Native American groups may open or expand casinos in other regions of the country where we currently operate, or plan to operate, racetracks or other gaming operations. Any such competition from Native American groups could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Some jurisdictions view our operations primarily as a means of raising taxes, and therefore we are particularly vulnerable to additional or increased taxes and fees. We believe that the prospect of raising significant additional revenue through taxes and fees is one of the primary reasons that certain jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to the normal federal, state, provincial and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees may be increased at any time. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. For instance, U.S. legislators have proposed the imposition of a U.S. federal tax on gross gaming revenues. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of any such changes in tax laws or their administration; however, if enacted, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. Industry controversies could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation, or industry practices of the horse racing industry, which could materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and increase our costs, and therefore adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In general, the pari-mutuel wagering industry is adversely affected by negative information that can erode bettor confidence. Any materially negative information discovered as a result of FBI or any other investigation, and any negative information concerning the internal controls and security of totalisator systems resulting from pari-mutuel wagering activities, such as the fraudulent conduct in connection with certain Pick 6 wagers made on the 2002 Breeders' Cup hosted by Arlington Park in Chicago, Illinois, may materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and the revenue and earnings of companies engaged in the horse racing industry, including us. The Pick 6 controversy has also caused the horse racing industry to focus on another area of bettor concern, late odds changes, which sometimes occur as odds updates in the totalisator system cause significant changes in the odds after a race has commenced. 45 In January 2005, the FBI announced indictments against 17 individuals alleged to have been engaged in money laundering, tax evasion and an illegal gambling conspiracy, in each case arising out of incidents connected with the horseracing industry. Certain of the alleged criminal acts are purported to have occurred through the facilities of certain rebate wagering operations, known as "rebate shops", that commingle significant amounts of wagers into wager pools hosted by U.S. racetrack operators, including MEC. In addition, one of the indictments arises out of an alleged scheme of doping horses to enhance performance. None of the indictments accused any rebate shops or U.S. racetrack operators of wrongdoing, however, the full impact of this controversy is uncertain at this time. A perceived lack of integrity in U.S. horse racing operations or wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence, and would likely lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. In addition, although we are taking steps to improve wagering systems, security and customer verification, the foregoing controversies may lead to changes in legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we pay persons who place fraudulent "winning" wagers, we would remain liable to pay the holders of the proper winning wagers the full amount due to them. We may be subject to claims from customers for fraudulent "winning" wagers. If we paid those claims, we would remain liable to the holders of the proper winning wagers for the full amount due to them and would have the responsibility to attempt to recover the money that we paid on the fraudulent claims. We may not be able to recover that money, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally and may be impacted by a reduction in live racing dates due to regulatory factors. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the seasonality associated with the racing schedules at our racetracks. Generally, our revenues from racetrack operations are greater in the first quarter of the calendar year than in any other quarter. We have a limited number of live racing dates at each of our racetracks and the number of live racing dates varies somewhat from year to year. The allocation of live racing dates in most of the jurisdictions in which we operate is subject to regulatory approval from year to year and, in any given year, we may not receive the same or more racing dates than we have had in prior years. We are also faced with the prospect that competing racetracks may seek to have some of our historical dates allocated to them. A significant decrease in the number of our live racing dates would reduce our revenues and cause our business to suffer. Unfavorable weather conditions may result in a reduction in the number of races we hold. Since horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high or low temperatures, excessive precipitation, storms or hurricanes, may cause races to be cancelled or may reduce attendance and wagering. Since a substantial portion of our operating expenses is fixed, a reduction in the number of races held or the number of horses racing due to unfavorable weather would reduce our revenues and cause our business to suffer. We periodically enter into agreements with third parties over whom we have limited control but whose conduct could affect the licenses that we hold in various jurisdictions. From time to time, we may enter into agreements with third parties over whom we have limited control. Conduct arising from or related to these agreements or joint venture arrangements could have an impact on the various licenses that our subsidiaries hold in multiple jurisdictions. If one of these agreements or joint venture arrangements has an adverse impact on any of these licenses, such adverse impact could have a material adverse impact on us or our financial condition, operating results or prospects, primarily through the impact associated with any loss, denial, suspension or other penalty imposed on such licenses. 46 The profitability of our racetracks is partially dependent upon the size and health of the local horse population in the areas in which our racetracks are located. Horse population is a factor in a racetrack's profitability because it generally affects the average number of horses (i.e., the average "field size") that run in races. Larger field sizes generally mean increased wagering and higher wagering revenues due to a number of factors, including the availability of exotic bets (such as "exacta" and "trifecta" wagers). Various factors have led to both short-term and long-term declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the effects of the Mare Reproductive Loss Syndrome, which caused a large number of mares in Kentucky to sustain late term abortions or early embryonic loss in 2001 and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases, such as the neurologic form of Equine Herpes Virus-1 and Strangles, which is caused by the organism Streptococcus equi. If any of our tracks are faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, or if we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our tracks by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, well-maintained racetracks, better living conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our tracks, and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could decrease. We depend on agreements with our horsemen's industry associations to operate our business. The U.S. Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as well as various state racing laws, require that, in order to simulcast races and, in some cases conduct live racing, we have written agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks, who are represented by industry associations. In some jurisdictions, if we fail to maintain operative agreements with the industry associations, we may not be permitted to conduct live racing or simulcasting at tracks or account wagering from hubs located within those jurisdictions. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are generally subject to the approval of the industry associations. Should we fail to renew existing agreements with the industry associations on satisfactory terms or fail to obtain approval for new simulcast agreements, we would lose revenues and our operating results would suffer. If we are unable to continue to negotiate satisfactory union contracts, some of our employees may commence a strike. A strike by our employees or a work stoppage by backstretch personnel, who are employed by horse owners and trainers, may lead to lost revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 5,200 employees, approximately 3,000 of whom were represented by unions. A strike or other work stoppage by our employees could lead to lost revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Legislation enacted in California in 2002 could facilitate the organization of backstretch personnel in that state. A strike by backstretch personnel could, even though they are not our employees, lead to lost revenues and therefore adversely affect our operating results. An earthquake in California could interrupt our operations at Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields, which would adversely impact our cash flow from these racetracks. Two of our largest racetracks, Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields, are located in California and are therefore subject to greater earthquake risks than our other operations. We do not maintain significant earthquake insurance on the structures at our California racetracks. We maintain fire insurance for fire risks, including those resulting from earthquakes, subject to policy limits and deductibles. There can be no assurance that earthquakes or the fires often caused by earthquakes will not seriously damage our California racetracks and related properties or that the recoverable amount of insurance proceeds will be sufficient to fully cover reconstruction costs and other losses. If an uninsured or underinsured loss occurs, we could lose anticipated revenue and cash flow from our California racetracks. 47 A severe hurricane hitting the Miami area could interrupt our operations at Gulfstream Park, which would adversely impact our cash flow from this track. Gulfstream Park is located in Aventura, Florida, just inland from the Atlantic Ocean. The new construction at Gulfstream Park has been built to withstand severe winds but significant flooding resulting from a hurricane or other tropical storm could result in significant damage to the facility. If the facility sustained serious damage the operations and results would be negatively impacted. Our business depends on providers of totalisator services. In purchasing and selling our pari-mutuel wagering products, our customers depend on information provided by each of the three main totalisator companies operating in North America, including AmTote in which we own a 30% equity interest. These totalisator companies provide the computer systems that accumulate wagers, record sales, calculate payoffs and display wagering data. The loss of any of the totalisator companies as a provider of these critical services would decrease competition in the market for those services and could result in an increase in the cost to obtain them. Additionally, the failure of the totalisator companies to keep their technology current could limit our ability to serve customers effectively, develop new forms of wagering, or ensure a sufficient level of wagering security. Because of the highly specialized nature of these services, replicating these totalisator services would be expensive. Implementation of some of the recommendations of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission may harm our growth prospects. In August 1996, the United States Congress established the National Gambling Impact Study Commission to conduct a comprehensive study of the social and economic effects of the gambling industry in the United States. This commission reviewed existing federal, state and local policy and practices with respect to the legalization or prohibition of gambling activities with the aim of formulating and proposing changes in these policies and practices and recommending legislation and administrative actions for these proposed changes. On April 28, 1999, the commission voted to recommend that there be a pause in the expansion of gaming. On June 18, 1999, the commission issued a report setting out its findings and conclusions, together with recommendations for legislation and administrative actions. Some of the recommendations were: •prohibiting Internet gambling that was not already authorized within the United States or among parties in the United States and any foreign jurisdiction; •limiting the expansion of gambling into homes through such mediums as account wagering; and •banning the introduction of casino-style gambling into pari-mutuel facilities for the primary purpose of saving a pari-mutuel facility that the market has determined no longer serves the community or for the purpose of competing with other forms of gaming. The recommendations made by the National Gambling Impact Study Commission could result in the enactment of new laws and/or the adoption of new regulations in the United States, which would materially adversely impact the gambling industry in the United States in general or our segment in particular and consequently may threaten our growth prospects. 48 Real Estate Ownership and Development Risks Our ownership and development of real estate is subject to risks and may involve significant ongoing expenditures or losses that could adversely affect our operating results. All real estate investments are subject to risks including: general economic conditions, such as the availability and cost of financing; local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of residential, office, retail or warehousing space, or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; governmental regulation, including taxation of property and environmental legislation; and the attractiveness of properties to potential purchasers or tenants. The real estate industry is also capital intensive and sensitive to interest rates. Further, significant expenditures, including property taxes, mortgage payments, maintenance costs, insurance costs and related charges, must be made throughout the period of ownership of real property, which expenditures may negatively impact our operating results. Redevelopment projects at our racetracks may result in a write down of the value of certain assets and have caused and may continue to cause temporary disruptions of our racing operations. We have completed the redevelopment of the racing surfaces and the redevelopment of the grandstand and backstretch facilities at Gulfstream Park in Florida. We have also completed the redevelopment of the dirt racing surfaces and the turf track at Laurel Park. These redevelopments resulted in write-downs in 2004 of $26.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively. The redevelopment at Gulfstream Park has resulted in a racing meet using temporary facilities for 2005 and the re-opening of Laurel Park for its 2004 - 2005 meet was delayed due to construction delays, which also resulted in a loss of a number of racing days. We may not be able to complete expansion or redevelopment projects successfully and on time, which would materially adversely affect our growth and our operating results. We intend to further develop our racetracks and expand our gaming activities as permitted. Numerous factors, including regulatory and financial constraints, could cause us to alter, delay or abandon our existing plans. If we proceed to develop new facilities or enhance our existing facilities, we face numerous risks that could require substantial changes to our plans. These risks include the inability to secure all required permits and the failure to resolve potential land use issues, as well as risks typically associated with any construction project, including possible shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering or environmental problems, delays and work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost overruns. For example, Gulfstream Park was forced to run its 2005 meet from temporary facilities which reduced total on-track wagering at Gulfstream Park and attendance in 2005. In addition, we encountered delays in the rebuilding of the racetrack surfaces at Laurel Park, which resulted in a late re-opening of Laurel Park for its 2004 - 2005 meet and a loss of certain race dates. Even if completed in a timely manner, our expansion projects may not be successful, which would affect our growth and could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. We face strict environmental regulation and may be subject to liability for environmental damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of requirements under environmental laws and regulations relating to waste water discharge, waste management and storage of hazardous substances. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can, in some circumstances, require significant capital expenditures. Moreover, violations can result in significant penalties and, in some cases, interruption or cessation of operations. For example, the Water Quality Board Permit for the discharge of surface waste water at Santa Anita Park is currently being renewed at Santa Anita Park; such renewal will require certain remedial work to its existing barns and uncovered backstretch areas. The cost of such remediation is currently estimated at $5.0 million over four years. No citations on violations are contemplated; provided that Santa Anita Park proceeds with the remediation work. 49 Furthermore, we may not have all required environmental permits and we may not otherwise be in compliance with all applicable environmental requirements. Where we do not have an environmental permit but one may be required, we will determine if one is in fact required and, if so, will seek to obtain one and address any related compliance issues, which may require significant capital expenditures. Various environmental laws and regulations in the United States, Canada and Europe impose liability on us as a current or previous owner and manager of real property, for the cost of maintenance, removal and remediation of hazardous substances released or deposited on or in properties now or previously owned or managed by us or disposed of in other locations. Our ability to sell properties with hazardous substance contamination or to borrow money using that property as collateral may also be uncertain. Changes to environmental laws and regulations, resulting in more stringent terms of compliance, or the enactment of new environmental legislation, could expose us to additional liabilities and ongoing expenses. Any of these environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. See "Our Business — Environmental Matters". We may not be able to sell or otherwise monetize some of our non-core real estate, excess racing real estate and revenue-producing non-racing real estate when we need to or at the price we want, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition. At times, it may be difficult for us to dispose of or otherwise monetize some of our non-core real estate, excess racing real estate and revenue-producing non-racing real estate. The costs of holding real estate may be high and we may be faced with ongoing expenditures with little prospect of earning revenue on our non-core real estate and excess racing real estate properties. If we have inadequate cash reserves or credit facilities, we may have to dispose of properties at prices that are substantially below the prices we desire, and in some cases, below the prices we originally paid for the properties, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and our growth plans. We require governmental approvals for some of our properties which may take a long time to obtain or which may not be granted, either of which could materially adversely affect our existing business or our growth. Some of our properties will require zoning and other approvals from local government agencies. The process of obtaining these approvals may take many months and we might not obtain the necessary approvals. Furthermore, in the case of certain land to be held by us in Aurora, Ontario, the transfer of this land to us from the registered owner is conditional on our obtaining permission to sever the land from adjoining properties and other approvals. If we do not obtain these approvals, we may not ultimately acquire this land. Holding costs, while regulatory approvals are being sought, and delays may render a project economically unfeasible. If we do not obtain all of our necessary approvals, our plans, growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile, and future issuances or sales of our stock may decrease our stock price. The trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. The following factors have had, and may continue to have, a significant effect on the market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock: 50 •our historical and anticipated operating results; •the announcement of new wagering and gaming opportunities by us or our competitors; •the passage or anticipated passage of legislation affecting horse racing or gaming; •developments affecting the horse racing or gaming industries generally; •sales or other issuances or the perception of potential sales or issuances, including in connection with our past and future acquisitions, of substantial amounts of our shares. We have an effective shelf registration statement outstanding that permits us to sell up to $300,000,000 of certain types of debt and/or equity securities. As of March 8, 2006, we have not sold any securities registered under this shelf registration statement; •sales or the expectation of sales by MI Developments Inc. of a portion of our shares held by it, or by our other significant stockholders; and •a shift in investor interest away from the gaming industry, in general. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock and other securities, regardless of our financial condition and operating results. The trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock could decrease as a result of our issuing additional shares as consideration for future acquisitions. We may issue our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock as full or partial consideration in connection with future acquisitions. To the extent that we do so, the percentage of our common equity and voting stock that our existing stockholders own will decrease and, particularly if such acquisitions do not contribute proportionately to our profitability, the trading price of our shares may also decrease. Sales or a spin-off or other distribution of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock by MI Developments Inc. or by certain of our other significant stockholders under our registration statements could depress our stock price. As of March 8, 2006, MI Developments Inc. owned, directly or indirectly, 4,362,328 shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock and 58,466,056 shares of our Class B Stock (which are convertible into shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock on a one-for-one basis). In addition, we have an effective registration statement that permits the secondary sale of shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock by some of our stockholders who received those shares in connection with our past acquisitions. A total of 4,793,043 shares were initially registered pursuant to that registration statement. In December 2002, we issued $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 71/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 15, 2009 that are currently convertible into 8,823,529 shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock (subject to certain potential adjustments). In June 2003, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 8.55% Convertible Subordinated Notes due June 15, 2010 that are convertible into 21,276,595 shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. We have effective registration statements filed with the SEC covering all such shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock issuable upon the conversion of such notes. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock, either by MI Developments Inc. or upon conversion of our Convertible Notes could depress the prevailing market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. On August 2, 2005, Greenlight Capital, Inc and certain of its affiliates filed an oppression application in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against MI Developments Inc. and certain of its current and former directors and officers. The application seeks, among other things, the spin-off or sale by MI Developments Inc. of its holdings of our shares. Any such spin-off, sale or other distribution could depress the prevailing market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. In particular, such a spin-off could result in our shares being distributed to MI Developments Inc. shareholders, who may not wish to hold our shares and who therefore may quickly sell a large number of our shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market or the TSX, which would likely create large downward pressure on the price of our stock. 51 We have no current plans to pay dividends and may never pay dividends. We have not paid any dividends to date on our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock and we do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends until we generate after-tax profits, if ever. See "Dividends and Dividend Policy". Our debt securities are subject to risks associated with debt financing. Our debt securities are subject to the following risks associated with debt financing: •the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; •the risk that, to the extent that we maintain floating rate indebtedness, interest rates will fluctuate; and •risks resulting from the fact that the indentures or other agreements governing our debt securities and credit facilities may contain covenants imposing certain limitations on our ability to acquire and dispose of assets and otherwise conduct and finance our business. In addition, although we anticipate that we will be able to repay or refinance any indebtedness that we incur when it matures, we may not be able to do so, and the terms of any refinancings of our indebtedness may not be favorable to us. Our leverage may have important consequences including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us; •a substantial decrease in our operating cash flow or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; and •our higher level of debt and resulting interest expense may place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to a competitor with lower amounts of indebtedness and/or higher credit ratings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 