Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves various risks. When evaluating our business and any investment in our securities, investors and prospective investors should consider carefully the following information in conjunction with the other information contained in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in any prospectus or prospectus supplement pursuant to which our securities may be offered. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us currently or that currently we deem to be immaterial also may impair our business operations. If we are unable to prevent events that have a negative effect from occurring, then our business may suffer. Negative events are likely to decrease our revenue, increase our costs, make our financial results poorer and decrease our financial strength, and may cause our stock price to decline. In that case, you may lose all or a part of your investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Recent turmoil in the financial markets and the global economic conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industry, business and gross margins. The challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets and the future economic environment may continue to be significantly less favorable than those of recent years. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, in particular for data storage and protection products for backup storage and network-based disaster recovery. Information technology spending has historically declined with worsening general economic and market conditions, and we believe the economic conditions have already caused our customers to significantly reduce or delay their information technology purchases and that these reductions and delays have negatively impacted demand for our products and services and our business. If the U.S. and global economic conditions continue to worsen, and the U.S. and world economies do not improve for an extended period of time, or if our customers believe such a downturn will continue for the foreseeable future or become more severe, then our customers may continue to significantly reduce their information technology budgets and may decrease their demand for our products and services. As a result of this economic slowdown and the continued tightening of credit markets, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or the continued global economic conditions may cause our customers to delay or cancel their purchases, increase the time they take to pay or default on their payment obligations. Currency fluctuations relating to the financial crisis could also negatively affect our international customers’ ability or desire to purchase our products. In addition, continued weakness in the economy could cause some of our resellers and other customers to become illiquid, delay payments or adversely affect our collection on their accounts, any of which would result in a higher level of bad debt expense. 9 The global economic conditions may not only cause our customers to significantly reduce or delay their information technology budgets, which would negatively impact demand for our products and services, but may also result in: ·increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors, but also as a result of our customer’s or potential customer’s utilization of inventoried or underutilized products, which could put additional pressure on our near term gross profits; ·risk of excess or obsolete inventories; ·excess engineering capacity and higher associated overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; and ·more limited ability to accurately forecast our business and future financial performance. The lack of liquidity and economic slowdown may also adversely affect our suppliers, including those on whom we are dependent and their liquidity, or the availability of, and terms and conditions on which we purchase their products and services. Any of these events could limit our ability to obtain necessary products and services and could adversely impact our supply chain or the delivery schedule to our customers. Any material change could require us to purchase more expensive components, or re-design systems, or find new suppliers, any of which could increase the cost of our systems and support and delay the manufacturing and delivery of our systems or negatively impact the performance or quality of our products and services. Such events would likely negatively impact our business and gross margins and harm our reputation and our customer relationships. As a result of the recent economic conditions, we may face new risks that we have not yet identified. In addition, a number of the risks associated with our business, which are disclosed in these risk factors, may increase in likelihood, magnitude or duration. We face significant competition and expect this competition to intensify, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue, reduce our gross margins and result in the loss of market share. The market for our products is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Other companies have introduced and may in the future introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter. Currently, we face competition from traditional providers of tape-based storage systems as well as a number of established storage companies that offer a variety of different disk-based storage products. Some of our channel distributors currently market products and services that compete with our products. We also compete with a number of emerging hardware and software companies that may become more significant competitors in the future. In addition, at the low-end of our product line, we may compete with other hardware or software providers that incorporate data storage and protection capabilities in their products. New competitive offerings have been recently announced or introduced in our marketplace by our competitors, and we anticipate additional offerings by our competitors may be announced or introduced in 2013. Competition in the past has resulted in pricing pressure on our products and services, and we anticipate that pricing pressure will increase in the future. Competition has in some instances resulted in a negative impact on the length of our sales cycle, and we may experience longer sales cycles in future periods due to increased competition. In particular, if a large number of orders, or a large dollar value order, is delayed or cancelled, our financial results may be harmed. Competition may result in reduced gross margins for our products, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or the loss of, market share. We derive most of our product sales revenue from sales of virtual tape servers, and if demand for these systems does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We derive most of our product sales revenue from sales of virtual tape servers and associated customer support and services. As a result, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these systems, whether as a result of competing technologies and products, the impact of the continuing weakening of U.S. and global economic conditions, decreases or delays in corporate spending for information technologies, product obsolescence, lack of customer acceptance, technological change, customer budgetary constraints or other factors. If demand for our systems does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. 10 In addition to other risk factors listed in these risk factors, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: ·fluctuations in our IP revenue; ·fluctuations in demand for our products; ·fluctuations in sales cycles and prices for our products, particularly for large orders which tend to have a longer sales cycle; ·reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; ·the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of revenue recognition rules; ·our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; ·the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; ·our ability to hire additional sales personnel and the length of time required for any such additional personnel to generate significant revenue; ·seasonality in the sales of our products; ·any lack of availability of, delay in the availability of, or quality problems with, any components we acquire from third-party suppliers, particularly any components we acquire from a third-party that is our sole source of supply for the components; ·any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; ·our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; ·our experience with product reliability and associated warranty claims; and ·general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. Our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer and future revenues in any period may be lower than our historical revenues or forecasts Our sales are difficult to forecast because the data storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. This is particularly true during times of economic slowdown and when selling products that require complex installations. Additional factors that may extend our sales cycle, particularly orders for new products, include: ·the amount of time needed for technical evaluations by customers; ·customers’ budget constraints and changes to customers’ budgets during the course of the sales cycle; ·customers’ internal review and testing procedures; ·our engineering work necessary to integrate a storage solution with a customer’s system; ·the complexity of technical challenges that need to be overcome during the development, testing or qualification process for new products or new customers; ·meeting unique customer specifications and requirements; and ·difficulties by our customers in integrating our products and technologies into their own products. Our product revenue is difficult for us to predict since it is directly affected by the timing of orders. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations, our operating results may be disproportionately affected. We cannot assure you that our sales will not decline in future periods. 11 If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenues may be impacted negatively. An element of our strategy to increase revenues is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. A number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the data storage market. However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these or other partners, such relationships may not generate significant revenues or continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. Moreover, some of our partners are also partnering with other data storage companies, which may increase the availability of competing solutions, harm our ability to continue as the vendor of choice for those partners and harm our ability to grow our business with those partners. In addition, an arrangement with a strategic partner could put us in competition with our existing customers or other business relationships or cause potential customers to seek other vendors. If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry, or if our strategic partnerships cause our other business relationships to seek other vendors or partners, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development or experience other operational difficulties that harm our business. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. In the year ended October 31, 2012, we derived approximately 7.5% of our revenue from international customers. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: ·the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; ·our executive officers’ lack of proximity to the international activities being managed and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow; ·the management of our relationships with distributors outside the United States, whose sales and lead generation activities are very important to our international operations; ·difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; ·tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets; ·increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; ·potential exposure to adverse tax consequences; ·shortages in component parts and raw materials; ·import and export and trade regulation changes that could erode our profit margins or restrict our ability to transport our products; ·the burden and cost of complying with foreign and U.S. laws governing corporate conduct outside the U.S.; ·potential restrictions on the transfer of funds between countries; ·import and export duties and value-added taxes; ·natural disasters, including earthquakes, typhoons and tsunamis; ·increased exposure to possible violations of U.S. laws regulating the export of our products, and to other U.S. and foreign laws affecting the conduct of business globally such as product certification, environmental and waste management and data privacy laws; ·reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and ·political and economic instability. Sales to international customers may also result in greater shipping costs and additional expenses to conform our products to the requirements of local laws or local product specifications. As we continue to expand our business internationally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce or delay our international sales, result in fines and penalties and reduce profitability on a dollar adjusted basis. 12 Our revenues depend in part on spending by corporate customers. The operating results of our business depend in part on the overall demand for data protection and network storage software. Because the market for our software is primarily major corporate customers, any softness in demand for data protection or network storage software may result in decreased revenues. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. Historically, our primary exposures have related to non dollar-denominated sales in Europe and Asia. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments for foreign currency hedging or speculative purposes. Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. Significant changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Such fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may experience at times an impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. For the years ended October 31, 2011 and 2012, we recorded net losses of approximately $7.5 million and $10.7 million, respectively. We may incur additional losses in future periods. We expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel relating to sales and marketing and product development. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including those discussed in other risk factors and factors that we cannot foresee. In addition, continued losses may cause us to undertake cost reduction plans. If we undertake cost reduction initiatives or restructuring plans, these plans may adversely impact our operations, may cause us to recognize restructuring or other charges and may not result in our realizing any or all of the anticipated benefits of these plans. A large percentage of our sales come from a few customers, some of which are also competitors, and these customers generally have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our sales have been and continue to be concentrated among a few customers. Sales to our top three customers in fiscal 2012 represented 69.7% of total revenue, and HP, our largest customer, represented 49.1% of our total revenue. Furthermore, customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume and our relationships with our customers are terminable at will. In addition, from time to time these customers have solicited, and may in the future solicit, bids from us and our competitors for products and services we are currently providing, which could reduce or terminate all or a part of our relationship with that customer. If we experience declines in revenue from any of our large customers, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain of our large customers are also our competitors, and such customers could decide to reduce or terminate their purchases of our products for competitive reasons. Merger and acquisition activity, such as the purchase of Data Domain by EMC, could increase the risk that large customers reduce or terminate their purchases of our products. Many of our tape and disk products are primarily incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold to end users by our large original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers as well as our value added resellers, or VARs, system integrators, or SIs, and other distributors. Because of this, we have limited market access to these end users, limiting our ability to reach and influence their purchasing decisions. These market conditions further our reliance on these OEM and other large customers. Thus if they were to significantly reduce, cancel or delay their orders with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 13 A large percentage of our revenue comes from our licensing program. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, licensing revenue could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our IP licensing revenue for the year ended October 31, 2012 was $1.7 million, or approximately 12.2% of revenues. If we experience declines in revenue from our licensees, as a result of economic conditions, customers’ business performance or otherwise, we could be materially and adversely affected. Our sales are difficult to predict, even in the near term, and a substantial portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last several weeks of the quarter. A substantial portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last several weeks of the quarter, which we believe largely reflects customer buying patterns of products similar to ours and other products in the technology industry generally. In addition, a significant portion of our sales in any quarter is not forecast at the start of the quarter and is generated by sales activity initiated within the quarter. Similarly, we have little visibility at the start of any quarter as to which existing customers, if any, will make additional purchases and when any additional purchases may occur, if at all. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near-term. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products and services by new customers may involve material changes to established purchasing patterns and policies. Our sales efforts involve educating potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products, including their technical capabilities and potential cost savings. Potential customers may undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a longer sales cycle. In addition, our sales cycle may be extended if potential customers decide to re-evaluate other aspects of their backup storage infrastructure at the same time they are considering a purchase of our products. We spend substantial time, money and other resources in our sales process without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, customer purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, which could be negatively impacted by deteriorating global economic conditions, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, or at all, our business may suffer. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key technical and sales personnel. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of Robert C. Sims, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our success also is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales and research and development departments. Our dependence on attracting and retaining qualified personnel is particularly significant as we attempt to grow our organization. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further expansion of our operations and headcount will be required. Our growth has placed, and any future growth will place, significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future growth, we will need to hire, train, integrate and retain a large number of highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. We could encounter delays or difficulties in implementing any of these systems. If we do not effectively hire, train, integrate and retain sufficient highly qualified personnel to support any future growth, and if we do not effectively manage the associated increases in expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 14 Because we may order components from suppliers in advance of receipt of customer orders for our products which include these components, we could face a material inventory risk, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We manufacture products in-house. Managing our in-house manufacturing capabilities presents a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For instance, as part of our component planning, we place orders with or pay certain suppliers for components in advance of receipt of customer orders. We occasionally enter into negotiated orders with vendors early in the manufacturing process of our storage products to ensure that we have sufficient components for our new products to meet anticipated customer demand. Because the design and manufacturing process for these components is complicated, it is possible that we could experience a design or manufacturing flaw that could delay or even prevent the production of the components for which we previously committed to pay. We also face the risk of ordering too many components, or conversely, not enough components, since supply orders are generally based on forecasts of customer orders rather than actual customer orders. In addition, in some cases, we make non-cancelable order commitments to our suppliers for work-in-progress, supplier’s finished goods, custom sub-assemblies, discontinued (end-of-life) components and unique raw materials that are necessary to meet our lead times for finished goods. If we cannot change or be released from supply orders, we could incur costs from the purchase of unusable components, either due to a delay in the production of the components or other supplies or as a result of inaccurately predicting supply orders in advance of customer orders. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected as a result of these increased costs. Any shortages in components used in our products could delay shipment of our products or increase our product costs, which could harm our business. Significant time and effort would be required to locate new vendors for the components we use in our products, if available at all, to qualify replacement components or to develop our products using alternative suppliers. The unavailability of any necessary components could delay or prevent us from shipping our products. Component suppliers may be vulnerable to pressure from large purchasers of their products, who may be competitors of ours, to allocate available component supplies to them. The global economic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers and their liquidity, and the availability of, or terms and conditions on which we purchase, their products and services. In addition, increased demand generally by third parties for the components we use in our products may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components. If we experience shortages in components that we use in our products, or do not accurately predict the availability of and demand for such components, or if new product introductions by our suppliers do not meet our expectations for timing, availability, functionality, performance, quality or price, then our business and gross margins could be negatively impacted, and our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed. If we are unable to develop and manufacture new products that achieve acceptance in the data protection and the network storage software markets, our operating results may suffer. The data protection and the network storage software markets continue to evolve and as a result there is continuing demand for new products. Accordingly, we may need to develop and manufacture new products that address additional data protection or network storage software market segments and emerging technologies to remain competitive in the data storage software industry. We are uncertain whether we will successfully qualify new data protection or network storage software products with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications. Any failure to address additional market segments could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to offer high quality customer support and services, our business would suffer. Once our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. A high level of customer support and services is important for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our distributors do not help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our products to existing customers would suffer and our reputation with potential customers would be harmed. Some of our international distributors offer primary support for the products they sell to customers, and we rely on third parties to provide onsite hardware repair and replacement services for most of our customers. If the third parties fail to provide timely and effective services, our business could be harmed. As we expand our sales, we will be required to hire and train additional support personnel. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. If we fail to maintain high quality customer support or to grow our support organization to match any future sales growth, our business will suffer. Our products handle mission-critical data for our customers and are highly technical in nature. If customer data is lost or corrupted, or our products contain software errors or hardware defects, we could have product liability exposure and our reputation and business could be harmed. Our products are involved in storing and replicating mission-critical data for our customers. The process of storing, protecting and replicating that data is highly technical and complex. If any data is lost or corrupted in connection with the use of our products, our reputation could be seriously harmed and market acceptance of our products could suffer. In addition, our products have contained and may in the future contain software errors, hardware defects or security vulnerabilities. We rely on our suppliers to deliver high quality components for use in our products and we have limited or no control over our suppliers’ product development and production processes. Some software errors or defects in the hardware components of our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. 15 We face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. In addition, we could potentially face claims for product liability from our customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. Changes in existing technologies or the emergence of new products or technologies could reduce demand for our products and significantly harm our business. Changes in existing technologies could cause demand for our products to decline. For example, if changes in technology result in a significant reduction in the price for hard disk drives, enterprises may not need to utilize information security, data protection, information assurance, business information assurance, business continuity, disaster recovery, data privacy, risk management, fraud prevention, corporate governance and regulatory compliance products or services. One or more new technologies also could be introduced that compete favorably with our products or that cause our products to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. In addition, because our products work with enterprise backup software applications to transfer and store data in the protection storage environment, we are dependent on enterprises’ use of these applications for data protection and disaster recovery purposes. If enterprises adopt products or technologies that enable them to protect and recover their data, demand for our products and services would be reduced significantly. Our operating results depend on new product introductions, which may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new ones. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these efforts. We cannot provide assurance that: ·we will introduce new products in the timeframe we forecast; ·we will not experience technical, quality, performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay the introduction and market acceptance of new products; ·our new products will achieve market acceptance and significant market share, or that the markets for these products will continue or grow as we have anticipated; ·our new products will be successfully or timely qualified with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications which must occur before customers will place large product orders; or ·we will achieve high volume production of these new products in a timely manner, if at all. If we are not successful in timely completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers, this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty and repair costs. The inability of our products to interoperate with backup software applications would cause our business to suffer. We have designed our products to interoperate with the leading enterprise backup software applications available in the market. If our products are not compatible with the leading backup software applications, demand for our products will decline. Some backup software providers currently offer products that compete with ours and other providers may do so in the future. Backup software providers may in the future make changes that would diminish the ability of our products to interoperate with their applications. If this were to occur, we may need to spend significant time and effort to ensure the continued compatibility of our products, which may not be possible at all. Any of these developments could significantly harm our business. 16 Our products must conform to industry standards and integrate smoothly with user systems in order to be accepted by customers in our markets. We offer our software on a stand-alone basis and as part of a product in which we install our software onto third party hardware. Our current products are only one part of a storage system. All components of these systems must comply with the same industry standards in order to operate together efficiently. We depend on companies that provide other components of these systems to conform to industry standards. Some industry standards may not be widely adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be preferred by OEM customers or end users. If other providers of components do not support the same industry standards as we do, if competing standards emerge or if our products are not easy to deploy or do not integrate smoothly with end user systems, our products may not achieve market acceptance, which would adversely affect our business. Issues with the hardware on which our software products are installed could increase our support costs and result in lower sales of our products. We deliver some of our products, both through our resellers and directly to end-users, installed on third party hardware. If the hardware does not function properly, our support costs will go up. We will have to arrange or pay for the repair or replacement of the broken hardware and we may have to increase the size of our support operations. Hardware reliability issues could also cause resellers and end-users to refuse to make purchases from us, even if our software products function properly. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We also maintain an active licensing program related to our patent portfolio pursuing licensing fees for past shipments and recurring licensing fees related to ongoing shipments. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Further, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even issued patents may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. It is also possible that we may find it necessary or advantageous to enter into similar cross licenses in the future with other actual or potential competitors. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be costly and divert management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We may not prevail in our litigation proceedings, which could cause us to incur significant legal expenditures without any related earnings. We currently and in the past have initiated litigation for the infringement of certain of our patents. As with any litigation, the outcome is uncertain, and although we intend to vigorously pursue our claims, there are no guarantees that we can protect our intellectual property rights in our current litigation or prevent the unauthorized use of our technology in the future. The litigation will be lengthy and costly. Additionally, unintended consequences of our litigation may adversely affect our business, including, without limitation, that we may have to devote significant time and financial resources to pursuing the litigation, that we may become subject to counterclaims or lawsuits and that the expenses of pursuing the litigation could increase based upon new developments. In addition, if we do not prevail in our patent litigation, the consequences could involve the circumvention or invalidation of our patents, which could have a material adverse effect on our ongoing licensing program and our ability to enforce our existing licenses. These, and other factors not currently known to or deemed material by management, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, prospects, liquidity and results of operations. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. 17 Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our products against our customers and distributors. Any of these claims may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally are obligated to indemnify our distributors and our customers from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages to, or on behalf of, our customers or distributors, which could seriously harm our business. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our software than we believe we are required to license under open source software licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products. In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future because: ·open source license terms may be ambiguous and may subject us to unanticipated obligations regarding our products, technologies and intellectual property; ·open source software generally cannot be protected under trade secret law; and ·it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software infringes, misappropriates or violates third party intellectual property or other rights. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products, to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or to litigate any disputes relating to our use of open source software, any of which could harm our business. U.S. government export restrictions could impede our ability to sell our software to certain end users. Certain of our products include the ability for the end user to encrypt data. The U.S. government places restrictions on the export of certain encryption technology. These restrictions may include the requirement to have a license to export the technology, the requirement to have software licenses approved before export is allowed and outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology to particular end users or to all end users in a particular country. Certain of our products are subject to various levels of export restrictions. These export restrictions could negatively impact our business. Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance and may continue to do so in the future. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and disposal of materials and substances used in our facilities and manufacturing processes as well as the safety of our employees and the public. Directives first introduced in the European Union impose a “take back” obligation on manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment and restrict the use of certain potentially hazardous materials, including lead and some flame retardants, in electronic products and components. Other jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally have since introduced similar requirements, and we anticipate that future regulations might further restrict allowable materials in our products, require the establishment of additional recycling or take back programs or mandate the measurement and reduction of carbon emissions into the environment. We have implemented procedures and will likely continue to introduce new processes to comply with current and future safety and environmental legislation. However, measures taken now or in the future to comply with such legislation may adversely affect our manufacturing or personnel costs or product sales by requiring us to acquire costly equipment or materials, redesign production processes or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our manufacturing programs or waste disposal and emission management processes. Furthermore, safety or environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, or the suspension of affected operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 We have incurred costs to comply with these regulations in the past and could incur additional costs in the future. In addition, compliance with these regulations could disrupt our operations and logistics. We will need to ensure that we can design and manufacture compliant products and that we can be assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. Similar laws and regulations have been proposed or may be enacted in other regions in which we operate. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize new components that are compatible with these regulations, which may result in additional costs to us. We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive, and our investment in product development may involve a long investment return cycle. For the year ended October 31, 2012, our research and development expenses were approximately $11.4 million, or approximately 81.5% of revenue. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. These investments may not generate positive returns in the near term, or at all. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash flows from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may limit our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. From time to time we may make acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future. We may also make significant investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions or significant investments, it could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks that we may face in our efforts to integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others: ·failure to realize anticipated savings and benefits from the acquisition; ·difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees; ·potential incompatibility of business cultures; ·coordinating geographically separate organizations; ·diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; ·coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid and efficient manner; ·the potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; ·failure of acquired technology or products to provide anticipated revenue or margin contribution; ·insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; ·costs and delays in implementing or integrating common systems and procedures; ·reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; ·impairment of existing customer, supplier and strategic relationships of either company; ·insufficient cash flows from operations to fund the working capital and investment requirements; ·difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; ·the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become impaired or we may incur losses from these investments; ·dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company; 19 ·the assumption of risks of the acquired company that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation; ·the cost associated with the acquisition; and ·assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated adverse events or circumstances. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. For example, in 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, as we continue to review and monitor this new law and its associated regulations, we expect to incur additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. As a public company that is subject to these rules and regulations, we may find that it is more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors and qualified executive officers. We are subject to risks related to the provision of employee health care benefits and recent health care reform legislation. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act was passed and signed into law. Provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years, and many of the regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation have not been implemented. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. Our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected due to this health reform legislation. 20 Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. While our headquarters facilities contain redundant power supplies and generators, our domestic and foreign operations, and the operation of our strategic allies, VARs, SIs and others, remain susceptible to fire, floods, tornadoes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or delay the manufacture and shipment of our products, our business would be harmed. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results. We depend on IT and telecommunications systems for our operations. These systems support a variety of functions including data storage and retrieval, order processing, shipping, shipment tracking, billing, support center and internal information exchange. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, shipping products, billing customers, handling support calls, or communication among our offices. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationship with our customers. Our support centers are dependent upon telephone and data services provided by third party telecommunications service vendors and our IT and telecommunications system. Any significant increase in our IT and telecommunications costs or temporary or permanent loss of our IT or telecommunications systems could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our share price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in these risk factors and elsewhere in our reports and other documents filed with the SEC, factors that may cause volatility in our share price include: ·our ability to meet our working capital needs; ·quarterly variations in operating results; ·changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts who may cover our stock or by our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; ·changes in market valuations of other similar companies; ·announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic relationships or joint ventures; ·additions or departures of key personnel; ·any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; ·the realization of any of the risk factors presented in this report; and ·future sales of common stock. Furthermore, the stock markets recently have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes, international currency fluctuations or political unrest, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. 21 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over research and reports these analysts publish or whether they will be published at all. If one or more of the analysts who decide to cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our system of internal controls may be inadequate. We maintain a system of internal controls in order to ensure we are able to collect, process, summarize, and disclose the information required by the SEC within the time periods specified. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Due to these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Additionally, public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or fail to perform as anticipated, errors could occur that would not be detected, which could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements, receive an adverse audit opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls or take other actions that will divert significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and/or other government enforcement actions. Furthermore, the price of our stock could be adversely affected and our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We do not presently intend to pay any cash dividends on or repurchase any shares of our common stock. We do not presently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Cash dividend payments in the future may only be made out of legally available funds and, if we experience substantial losses, such funds may not be available. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends, making distributions or payments or redeeming, retiring or purchasing any of our capital stock. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. A default under our credit facility could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position. We have a line of credit with a bank pursuant to a loan and security agreement secured by our assets. We are required to satisfy certain financial and reporting covenants under the loan agreement, and we have been in default under certain of the financial covenants at times during fiscal 2012. We are in compliance with all covenants as of January 23, 2013. If we defaulted under our obligations under the credit facility, the bank could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness or declare that all obligations under the credit facility to be due and payable. If any indebtedness under the credit facility were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness. In addition, upon any distribution of assets pursuant to any liquidation, insolvency, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding, the holders of secured indebtedness will be entitled to receive payment in full from the proceeds of the collateral securing our secured indebtedness before the holders of other indebtedness or our common stock will be entitled to receive any distribution with respect thereto. We do not have cumulative voting and a small number of existing shareholders control our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of shareholder votes. Our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative votes in the election of our directors. Cumulative voting, in some cases, could allow a minority group to elect at least one director to our board. Because there is no provision for cumulative voting, a minority group will not be able to elect any directors. Accordingly, the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock, present in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. Our executive officers and directors, together with our largest shareholders, beneficially own approximately 50.0% of our common stock as of January 22, 2013. As a result, these persons may be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: 22 ·no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; ·the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; ·the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; ·a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; ·the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and ·advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 