ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are potential risks that management considers material and that could affect the future operating results and financial condition of the Bank and the Company. The risks are not listed in any particular order of importance, and there is the potential that there are other risks that have either not been identified or that management believed to be immaterial but which could in fact adversely affect the Bank’s operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response: Recent and future legislation and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall economy. Recent and future legislative and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions, such as the EESA and the ARRA, may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall economy. EESA was enacted in October 2008 to restore confidence and stabilize the volatility in the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The UST and banking regulators have implemented, and likely will continue to implement, various other programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP, the CPP, President Obama’s Financial Stability Plan announced in February 2009, the ARRA and the FDIC’s TLGP. Ther e can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any of the recent, or future, legislative and regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets and the overall economy. Any failure of these initiatives to help stabilize or improve the financial markets and the economy, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under ARRA, EESA or other legislation intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system, could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system, including the implementation of ARRA, EESA, the TLGP and special assessments imposed by the FDIC, subject participants to additional regulatory fees and requirements, including corporate governance requirements, executive compensation restrictions, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on share repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions and prohibitions against golden parachute payments. These requirements, and any other requirements that may be subsequently imposed, may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. In the case of a company such as Peoples Bancorp that received CPP funds, the ARRA, and subsequent regulations issued by UST, contain restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the Company’s senior executive officers. As a consequence, we may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain our highest performing employees and attract new employees of a high caliber. If this were to occur, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. 14 From time to time, we utilize derivative financial instruments, primarily to hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates, but also to hedge cash flow. By entering into these transactions and derivative instrument contracts, we expose ourselves to counterparty credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. When the fair value of a derivative contract is in an asset position, the counterparty has a liability to us, which creates credit risk for us. We attempt to minimize this risk by selecting counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting our exposure to any single counterparty and regularly monitoring our market position with each counterparty. Nonetheless, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services ind ustry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan due us. Any such losses may not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments in the future. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the DIF to historical lows. The FDIC recently increased the designated reserve ratio from 1.25 to 2.00. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000, which may result in even larger losses to the DIF. These developments have caused an increase to our assessments, and the FDIC may be required to make additional increases to the assessment rates and levy additional special assessments on us. Higher assessments increase our non-interest expense. Since fourth quarter 2008, our annual assessment rates, which also include our assessment for participating in the FDIC’s TAGP increased from 7.04 to 15.66 basis points. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule imposing a special 5.00 basis points emergency assessment as of June 30, 2009, payable September 30, 2009, based on assets minus Tier 1 Capital at June 30, 2009, but the amount of the assessment was capped at 10.00 basis points of domestic deposits. Finally, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a new rule requiring insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. We prepaid an assessment of $5.0 million, which incorporated a uniform 3.00 basis point increase effective Januar y 1, 2011. These higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments have had and will continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our FDIC insurance related cost was $1.4 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, compared to $547,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods, including whether and when additional special assessments will occur. Higher insurance premiums and assessments increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The full impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is currently unknown given that much of the details and substance of the new laws will be implemented through agency rulemakings. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and requires federal agencies to adopt nearly 250 new rules and conduct more than 60 studies over the course of the next few years, ensuring that the federal regulations and implementing policies in these areas will continue to develop for the foreseeable future. Significantly, the Dodd-Frank Act includes the following provisions which affect the Company or the Bank: (1) it establishes the new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“BCFP”) which will directly regulate and supervise the Bank for compliance with the BCFP’s regulations and policies. The creation of the BCFP will directly impact the scope and cost of products and services offered to consumers by the Bank and may have a significant effect on its financial performance. (2) it revises the FDIC’s insurance assessment methodology so that premiums will be assessed based upon the average consolidated total assets of the Bank less tangible equity capital. 15 (3) it permanently increases deposit insurance coverage to $250,000; in addition, for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, such accounts will receive unlimited FDIC deposit insurance through January 1, 2013. (4) it authorizes the Federal Reserve to set debit interchange fees in an amount that is “reasonable and proportional” to the costs incurred by processors and card issuers. Notably, a proposed Federal Reserve rule that would limit this interchange fee to 12 cents per transaction has been announced but has not yet been finalized. (5) it imposes proprietary trading restrictions on insured depository institutions and their holding companies that prohibit them from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and prevents them from owning equity interests in excess of three percent (3%) of a bank’s Tier 1 capital in private equity and hedge funds. (6) it requires a phased-in exclusion of trust preferred securities as a component of Tier 1 capital for certain bank holding companies. Notably, preferred stock issued to the UST under the CPP is excluded from this calculation. (7) it requires federal regulators to establish new minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for large banks, bank holding companies and systemically important non-banks. The federal banking agencies issued a proposal to implement this authority whereby the capital requirements applied to other insured depository institutions would not apply to the largest insured depository institutions, which had previously been permitted to use their own models to determine their individual risk-based capital requirements. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act requires depository institution holding companies to act as a “source of strength” for their depository institution subsidiaries (previously, this had been a regulatory policy but was not codified into law). Based on the text of the Dodd-Frank Act and the anticipated implementing regulations, including the Durbin amendment, it is anticipated that the costs to banks and their holding companies may increase or fee income may decrease significantly which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Moreover, compliance obligations will expose us to additional noncompliance risk and could divert management’s focus from the business of banking. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank. The BCFP has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer to consumers covered financial products and services. The BCFP has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The concept of what may be considered to be an “abusive” practice is new under the law. The full scope of the impact of this authority has not yet been determined as the implementing rules of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the BCFP have not yet been released. Moreover, the Bank will be supervised an d examined by the BCFP for compliance with the BCFP’s regulations and policies. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory reporting regimen have yet to be fully determined, although they may be material and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Bank with respect to its consumer product offering and services will also likely produce significant, material effects on the Bank’s (and the Company’s) profitability. Risks Related to Our Business: Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results. The success of the Bank has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by the ability to retain the services of existing senior management. The Bank has benefited from consistency within its senior management team, with its top five executives averaging over 17 years of service with the Bank. The Company has entered into employment contracts with each of these top management officials. Nevertheless, the unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on the business and financial results of the Bank. A significant amount of the Bank’s business is concentrated in lending which is secured by property located in the Catawba Valley and surrounding areas. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If the Bank is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values, as is currently the case, to satisfy the debt, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 16 Additionally, with most of the Bank’s loans concentrated in the Catawba Valley and surrounding areas, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of the Bank’s real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on the Bank’s earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Considering such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances within assigned risk grades and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions a nd judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. For further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, see “Allowance for Loan Losses” within “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results and Operation” of this Annual Report, which is included in this Form 10-K as Exhibit 13. Changes in interest rates affect profitability and assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt the Bank’s business. The Bank derives its income primarily from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more the Bank earns. When market rates of interest change, the interest the Bank receives on its assets and the interest the Bank pays on its liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in the “spread” and can adversely affect the Bank’s income. Changes in market interest rates could reduce the value of the Bank’s financial assets. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed and related securities and mortgage loans generally decrease in value as intere st rates rise. In addition, interest rates affect how much money the Bank lends. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and the loan originations tend to decrease. If the Bank is unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, the financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations is presented within “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Annual Report which is included in this Form 10-K as Exhibit 13. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions. Since December 2007, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly since that time. During these challenging economic conditions, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve 17 borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $200 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values continue to decline and access to liquidity continues to be limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the State of North Carolina and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2009 and 2010, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in the State of North Carolina will continue to have an adverse impact on many households and businesses for the foreseeable future. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Bank faces strong competition from other banks and financial institutions which can hurt its business. The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Bank competes against commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, brokerage firms, investment advisory firms, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Many of these entities are larger organizations with significantly greater financial, management and other resources than the Bank has. Moreover, one national money center commercial bank is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, only 40 miles from the Bank's primary market area. While management believes it can and does successfully compete with other financial institutions in our market, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Changes in technology may impact the Bank’s business. The Bank uses various technologies in its business and the banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Bank’s future success will depend in part on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in the Bank’s operations. The Bank’s competitors may have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect our results of operations. In the normal course of business, we may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we are engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. 18 Our internal controls may be ineffective. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Impairment of investment securities or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issues, and the intent and ability of the Corporation to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. We have policies and procedures designed with the intention to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems.. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of oper ations. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. Negative publicity could damage our reputation Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, financial advisors and consultants, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, loans 90+ days delinquent, and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $46.9 million, or 4.40 % of total assets, which is an increase of $18.2 million or 63% over non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, our non-performing assets were $14.2 million, or 1.47% of total assets. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses as well as from time to time, as appropriate, the write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial real estate loans, acquisition, development and construction (“AD&C”) loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, and AD&C loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are most susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have historically had greater credit risk than other loans for the following reasons: · Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they are generally not fully amortizing over a loan period, but rather have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. As of December 31, 2010, commercial real estate loans, including multi-family loans, comprised approximately 29% of our total loan portfolio. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. As of December 31, 2010, commercial loans comprised approximately 8% of our total loan portfolio. · AD&C Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, sale of the property, or by seizure of collateral. As of December 31, 2010, AD&C loans comprised approximately 17% of our total loan portfolio. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. As of December 31, 2010, consumer loans comprised approximately 5% of our total loan portfolio. Because we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. 20 The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: · general or local economic conditions; · environmental cleanup liability; · neighborhood values; · interest rates; · real estate tax rates; · operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; · supply of and demand for rental units or properties; · ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; · zoning laws; · governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and · acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. All borrowers carry the potential to default and our remedies to recover (seizure and/or sale of collateral, legal actions, guarantees, etc.) may not fully satisfy money previously lent. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, pol itical, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock: The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger public companies which can cause price volatility. The trading history of our common stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to sudden decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock, which trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; · press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions in our market, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and · other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling common stock at or above the current market price. 21 We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. We have in the past paid a quarterly dividend to shareholders. However, we are dependent primarily upon the Bank for our earnings and funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the CPP, the UST has a preferential right to the payment of cumulative dividends on the CPP Series A preferred stock. No dividends are permitted to be paid to common shareholders unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on the CPP preferred stock were fully paid. Any increase in dividends to common shareholders above the amount last declared prior to December 23, 2008 ($0.12 per share quarterly in the case of the Company) is subject to the consent of the UST for the first three years of the CPP preferred stock investment. Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; · recommendations by securities analysts; · operating results and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; · news reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; · perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; · new technology used or services offered by competitors; · significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; and · changes in government regulations. The Company’s trading volume has been low compared with larger national and regional banks. The Company’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the trading volume of the Company’s common stock is relatively low when compared with more seasoned companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, NASDAQ Global Select Market, or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. Thus, the market in the Company’s common stock may be limited in scope relative to other larger companies. In addition, the Company cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop. Our common stock is not FDIC insured. The Company’s common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of our common stock may lose some or all of their investment. Our participation in the CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets. On December 23, 2008, we issued and sold (i) 25,054 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (“Series A Preferred Stock”) and (ii) a warrant to purchase 357,234 shares of our common stock (“Warrant”) to the UST as part of its CPP. Prior to December 23, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the UST has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to a maximum quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain ex ceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% to 9%. Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity. 22 We may reduce or eliminate dividends on our common stock. Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock, holders of our common stock are not entitled to receive dividends. Downturns in the domestic and global economies could cause our board of directors to consider, among other things, reducing or eliminating of dividends paid on our common stock. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because of our agreements with the UST as part of the CPP under the TARP, prior to December 23, 2011, or the date on which the UST’s senior preferred stock investment has been fully redeemed or transferred, if earlier, we may not pay quarterly dividends on our common stock greater than $0.12 per share without the UST’s consent. In addition, we may not pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods are fully paid on our outstanding preferred stock issued to the UST. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends before declaring or paying any dividends. Dividends also may be limited as a result of safety and soundness considerations. Our articles of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws, and certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may prohibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 23 