Item 1A. Risk Factors The most significant risks and uncertainties we face are described below, but other risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we currently believe are not material or are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. If any of the following risks, or any of the risks described in the other documents we file with the SEC and Canadian securities regulatory authorities, actually occur or increase, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of the shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock could decline substantially and investors may lose all or part of the value of the shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock held by them. 35 Risks Regarding Our Company We currently have a number of debt obligations that we will be unable to meet unless we can extend or restructure existing facilities or raise capital from other sources, neither of which is assured. If we are unsuccessful in negotiations with our existing lenders, we may have to seek protection from our creditors, be unable to continue as a going concern and/or our stock may become illiquid or worthless. At December 31, 2007, we had $209.4 million of debt that matures in 2008, including amounts under our $40.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with a Canadian financial institution which is scheduled to mature on March 31, 2008, our Bridge Loan of up to $80.0 million with a subsidiary of MID, which is scheduled to mature on May 31, 2008 and our obligation to repay $100.0 million of indebtedness under the Gulfstream Park project financing with a subsidiary of MID, which is due by May 31, 2008. In the event we are unable to extend or restructure such facilities, we will not have sufficient cash to meet the obligations under these facilities unless we are able to raise capital from other sources in the short term, including as a result of (i) asset sales under the Plan, (ii) additional financing arrangements or (iii) operations, none of which are assured. If we are unable to repay our obligations when due, other current and long-term debt will also become due on demand as a result of cross-default provisions within loan agreements, unless we are able to obtain waivers or extensions. As a result, we could be required to liquidate assets in the fastest manner possible to raise funds, seek protection from our creditors in one or more ways or be unable to continue as a going concern, any of which will have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete asset sales or undertake strategic transactions as contemplated under our debt elimination plan announced in September 2007 at acceptable prices or as quickly as originally contemplated. The Plan was designed to eliminate net debt by December 31, 2008 by generating funding from the sale of assets, entering into strategic transactions involving certain of the Company's racing, gaming and technology operations, and a possible future equity issuance. To date, we have not yet closed any significant transactions under the Plan and have not entered into any strategic transactions. Although the Company continues to implement the Plan, weakness in the U.S. real estate and credit markets has adversely affected our ability to execute the Plan as market demand for our assets has been weaker than expected and financing for buyers has become more difficult to obtain. We cannot predict when these market conditions may improve. Any failure or delay in implementation of the Plan will adversely affect our ability to meet upcoming debt maturities, satisfy operational requirements or continue as a going concern. Although our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Although our financial statements since March 31, 2006 have been prepared on a going concern basis (which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future) there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our recurring losses from operations, working capital deficiency and accumulated deficit as at December 31, 2007. Our financial statements do not give effect to any adjustments which would be necessary should MEC be unable to continue as a going concern and, therefore, be required to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in other than the normal course of business and at amounts different from those reflected in our financial statements. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our generating cash flows that are adequate to sustain the operations of our business, renewing, extending, restructuring or refinancing current financing arrangements and meeting our obligations with respect to secured and unsecured creditors, none of which is assured. If the Company is unable to repay its obligations when due, other current and long-term debt will also become due on demand as a result of cross-default provisions within loan agreements, unless the Company is able to obtain waivers or extensions. As a result, the Company will likely need to seek additional funds in the short-term from one or more possible sources. The availability of such additional funds is not assured and, if available, the terms thereof are not determinable at this time. 36 As a result of our financial condition, our Board of Directors has a duty to creditors that may adversely affect the interests of our shareholders. Because of our financial condition, our Board of Directors has a duty to our creditors that may affect the interests of our shareholders. When a Delaware corporation is operating in the vicinity of insolvency, the Delaware courts have imposed upon the corporation's directors a fiduciary duty to the corporation's creditors. Our Board of Directors may be required to make decisions that consider the interests of creditors at the expense of our stockholders to fulfill its fiduciary duty. For instance, we may be required to preserve our assets to maximize the repayment of debts versus employing the assets to further grow our business and increase shareholder value. We have a history of net losses; we anticipate additional losses and may never become profitable. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since the year ended December 31, 2002. For our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred a net loss of $113.8 million. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $510.1 million. We expect to continue to incur additional operating losses in the future and there is no assurance that we will be profitable in any future period. We expect that during 2008 we will require additional financing to fund our current planned operations and the implementation of our strategic plan, but we may not be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. We expect that during 2008, we will be required to seek additional financing in order to fund our operations and the implementation of our strategic plan, including capitalizing on future growth opportunities. If additional financing or other sources of funds are not available to us as needed, or are not available on terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to continue as a going concern, to add alternative gaming to our racetracks where permitted or to improve or expand our operations as planned may be adversely affected. We have already entered into numerous financing arrangements secured by significant portions of our assets, which would limit our ability to provide security for new loans. Please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Position — Working Capital, Cash and Other Resources" and "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". Following the expiry of our existing financing arrangements, there can be no assurance that the amounts, terms and conditions involved in the renewal or extension of our existing financing arrangements will be favourable, or that we will be able to renew or extend any of these financing arrangements at all. In particular, our controlling shareholder, MID, has entered into financing arrangements with us in the past and there is no assurance that such arrangements will be continued or extended on favorable terms in the future. If we are unable to renew or extend our financing arrangements when due, on favourable terms, or at all, our business, operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our senior secured revolving credit facility imposes significant restrictions on us. Our senior secured revolving credit facility, which matures on March 31, 2008, requires us to maintain aggregate earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from operations at Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields, calculated on a rolling 12 month basis of not less than $15.0 million. This revolving credit facility is secured by a first charge on the assets of Golden Gate Fields and a second charge on the assets of Santa Anita Park and is guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries which own and operate Golden Gate Fields and Santa Anita Park. The credit agreement contains customary covenants relating to our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make future acquisitions, enter into certain related party transactions, consummate asset dispositions, incur capital expenditures and make restricted payments. These restrictions may limit our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and obtain additional funds. Our ability to meet these financial covenants may be adversely affected by a deterioration in business conditions or our results of operations, adverse regulatory developments and other events beyond our control. At September 30, 2007, we were not in compliance with one of the financial covenants contained in the credit agreement. A waiver was obtained from the lender for the financial covenant breach at September 30, 2007. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with the financial covenant. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in the occurrence of an event of default under the senior, revolving credit facility and trigger a cross-default under certain of our 37 other credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender may terminate the senior secured revolving credit facility, demand immediate payment of all amounts borrowed by us and require adequate security or collateral for all outstanding letters of credit outstanding under the facility, which could adversely affect our ability to repay our debt securities and would adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. Repayments under our Gulfstream Park project financings and Remington Park project financings impose limitations on the amount of funds available to grow those businesses. Each of our Gulfstream Park project financing, which matures in 2016, and Remington Park project financing, which matures in 2015, require payment of principal and interest. These payments limit the amount of funds available to invest back into these properties. In addition, each of these loans provide that certain cash from the respective operations of Gulfstream Park and Remington Park must be used to pay deferred interest on the loans. This requirement will further limit the funds available to service our debt obligations and operational requirements. Our business is heavily concentrated at certain of our racetracks. Six of our racetracks, Santa Anita Park, Laurel Park, Pimlico Race Course, Gulfstream Park, Lone Star Park and Golden Gate Fields accounted for approximately 79.2% of our revenue from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007. If a business interruption were to occur and continue for a significant length of time at any of these racetracks, it could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, certain of our other racetrack properties have experienced operating losses before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization over the past three years. The operating performance of these racetracks may not improve in the future. We are controlled by MID and therefore MID is able to prevent any takeover of us by a third party. MID owns all our outstanding Class B Stock, which is entitled to 20 votes per share, and approximately 4.36 million shares of our Class A Stock, and therefore is able to exercise approximately 96% of the total voting power of our outstanding stock. It is therefore able to elect all our directors and to control us. As a result, MID is able to cause or prevent a change in our control. Our relationship with MID is not at "arm's length", and therefore MID may influence us to make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. Our relationship with MID is not at "arm's length". In addition to the ownership of our stock as described in the preceding risk factor (and in the risks described below in " — Risks Relating to Our Securities"), sales or a spin-off or other distribution of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock by MID or by certain of our other significant stockholders under our registration statements could depress our stock price. Our Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer is also the Chairman of MID's board of directors. In some cases, the interests of MID may not be the same as those of our other stockholders, and conflicts of interest may arise from time to time that may be resolved in a manner detrimental to us or our minority stockholders. MID is able to cause us to effect certain corporate transactions without the consent of the holders of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock, subject to applicable law and the fiduciary duties of our directors and officers. Consequently, transactions effected between us and MID may not be on the same terms as could be obtained from independent parties, resulting in the possibility of our minority stockholders' interests being compromised. We may not be able to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain qualified personnel. Since June 22, 2007 we have had an Interim Chief Executive Officer and, as of yet, have not been able to retain a permanent appointee. Our most recent permanent Chief Executive Office appointee stepped down after holding the position for approximately four months. The loss of key managers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 38 Although a prospectus supplement related to a given offering of securities may describe the proposed use of proceeds of such offering, our management may have broad discretion over the use of proceeds from any offering of securities described in such prospectus supplement, and may spend the proceeds in ways with which shareholders do not agree. Our management may retain broad discretion as to the use of proceeds from any offering of securities described in any prospectus or any prospectus supplement. Accordingly, shareholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific uses of those proceeds and shareholders may not agree with those uses. Our failure to use the proceeds effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations which could aversely affect our profitability as reported in U.S. Dollars. Our business outside the United States is generally transacted in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our operating results. Moreover, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to currencies in which earnings are generated outside the United States could result in a reduction in our profitability as reported in U.S. dollars. Risks Relating to Our Wagering and Gaming Operations The passage of legislation permitting alternative gaming at racetracks, such as slot machines, video lottery terminals and other forms of non-pari-mutuel gaming, can be a long and uncertain process. A decision to prohibit, delay or remove alternative gaming rights at racetracks by the government or the citizens of a state, or other jurisdiction, in which we own or operate a racetrack, could adversely affect our business or prospects. Three jurisdictions currently allow alternative gaming to be conducted at racetracks or other facilities owned and/or operated by MEC: Florida, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania, and one jurisdiction, Oregon, permits a limited number of video lottery terminal machines to be operated at our racetrack and our network of off-track betting centers, as well as bars and taverns located throughout the state. We are pursuing legislation similar to that which exists in Florida, Oklahoma, and Pennsylvania in other U.S. states where certain of our racetracks are located. There can be no assurance, however, that alternative gaming at racetracks will become permitted in those states. In the event that alternative gaming legislation is enacted in additional jurisdictions, there can be no certainty as to the terms of such legislation or regulations, including the timetable for commencement, the conditions and feasibility of operation and whether alternative gaming rights are to be limited to racetracks. If we proceed to conduct alternative gaming at any of our racetracks, there may be significant costs and other resources to be expended, and there will be significant risks involved, including the risk of changes in the enabling legislation, that may have a material adverse effect on the relevant racetrack's operations and profitability. The regulatory risks and uncertainties that are inherent in the conduct of alternative gaming also apply in other jurisdictions outside the United States. The Magna Racino™, located approximately 20 miles south of Vienna, Austria, serves as landlord to video lottery terminal operations conducted by a licensed casino operator. Under that arrangement, the racetrack retains 50% of the gross profit (excluding certain costs). This arrangement has an indefinite term (with a minimum five year term ending in September 2009) and is terminable by either party on 12 months prior notice. There can be no assurance as to how long this arrangement will continue, and if it does, whether the terms will remain the same. A decline in the popularity of horse racing could adversely impact our business. The continued popularity of horse racing is important to our growth plans and our operating results. Our business plan anticipates our attracting new customers to our racetracks, off-track betting facilities and account wagering operations. Even if we are successful in making acquisitions and expanding and improving our current operations, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of new customers to achieve our business plan. 39 Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any decline in interest in horse racing or any change in public tastes may adversely affect our revenues and, therefore, our operating results. Declining on-track attendance and increasing competition in simulcasting may materially adversely affect our operating results. There has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering at live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other forms of gaming, unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track and account wagering. The declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, could lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at our facilities and on races conducted at our racetracks and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Gaming companies that operate on-line and offer internet-based wagering services may materially adversely affect our operating results. Gaming companies that operate on-line and offer internet-based wagering services often do not have the same level of overhead as we do as they do not have similar capital expenditure requirements, which often results in those companies being able to offer services at discount prices. In addition, unlike traditional operations, like ours, these off-shore online operators often do not pay certain percentages of handle to local horsemen, state regulatory agencies and other possible entities in accordance with applicable U.S. federal and state law and horse industry regulations, which means those operators are able to attract U.S. based customers that might otherwise use our services by offering rebates we cannot afford to offer. Our strategy of increasing international distribution of North American horse racing may not be successful. We believe that there is a demand for North American horse racing in the international market, but we may not be correct in our belief. Our plan to distribute our content internationally has not been successfully carried out by any other company to date. We are spending financial capital and deploying human capital in an effort to capture the international market. If we are not successful, it may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet any future revenue expectations and, therefore, our operating results. Both our pari-mutuel gaming and alternative gaming activities at racetracks are dependent on governmental regulation and approvals. Amendments to such regulation or the failure to obtain such approvals could adversely affect our business. All our pari-mutuel wagering and alternative gaming operations at racetracks are contingent upon the continued governmental approval of these operations as forms of legalized gaming. All our current gaming operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation and could be subjected at any time to additional or more restrictive regulation, or banned entirely. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our pari-mutuel wagering and other gaming facilities. Licenses to conduct live horse racing and wagering, simulcast wagering and alternative gaming at racetracks must be obtained from each jurisdiction's regulatory authority, in many cases annually. In addition, licenses or approvals to conduct account wagering must be obtained in certain jurisdictions in which our account wagering customers reside, in many cases annually. The denial, loss or non-renewal of any of our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals may materially limit the number of races we conduct or the form or types of pari-mutuel wagering and other gaming activities we offer, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we currently devote significant financial and management resources to complying with the various governmental regulations to which our operations are subject. Any significant increase in governmental regulation would increase the amount of our resources devoted to governmental compliance, could substantially restrict our business, and could materially adversely affect our operating results. 40 If the court challenge to a November 14, 2007 agreement between the State of Florida and the Seminole Tribe of Florida is unsuccessful, the casino at Gulfstream Park will be forced to compete with an entity that does not have a similar tax burden and, therefore, will likely have significant resources to apply to marketing and other efforts. On November 28, 2007, we sought and were granted amicus curiae status in a suit filed by the House of Representatives and Speaker Marco Rubio against the Governor of the State of Florida, Charlie Crist, relating to the approval of tribal compacts. The Florida Supreme Court heard arguments on January 30, 2008 and judgment is currently pending. Any future expansion of our pari-mutuel and gaming operations will likely require us to obtain additional governmental approvals or, in some cases, amendments to current laws governing such activities. The high degree of regulation in the pari-mutuel and gaming industry is a significant obstacle to our growth strategy, especially with respect to alternative gaming at racetracks and account wagering, including telephone, interactive television and Internet-based wagering. Currently, non-pari-mutuel gaming is only offered at three U.S. racetracks we own, Remington Park, Gulfstream Park and Portland Meadows, at which we offer a limited number of video lottery terminal machines. Non-pari-mutuel gaming is also offered at The Meadows, a U.S. racetrack that we operate. Account wagering in the United States may currently be conducted only through hubs or bases located in certain states. Our expansion opportunities with respect to account wagering will be limited unless more states amend their laws to permit account wagering or, in the alternative, if states take action to make such activities unlawful. In addition, the licensing and legislative amendment processes can be both lengthy and costly, and we may not be successful in obtaining required legislation, licenses, registrations, permits and approvals. In the past, certain state attorneys general, district attorneys and other law enforcement officials have expressed concern over the legality of interstate account wagering. In December 2000, legislation was enacted in the United States that amends the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978. We believe that this amendment clarifies that inter-track simulcasting, off-track betting and account wagering, as currently conducted by the U.S. horse racing industry, are authorized under U.S. federal law. The amendment may not be interpreted in this manner by all concerned, however, and there may be challenges to these activities by both state and federal law enforcement authorities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. On September 30, 2006, President George W. Bush signed into law the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, which prohibits the use of credit cards, checks, electronic funds transfers and certain other funding methods for most forms of Internet gambling. The new law contains an exemption which, at the very least, permits such funding for pari-mutuel account wagering conducted in compliance with the Interstate Horseracing Act. It is unclear at this time, however, how U.S. law enforcement authorities, including the U.S. Department of Justice, will interpret the application of this new law. Furthermore, as required by the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, the U.S. Treasury Department, in consultation with the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Department of Justice, released proposed regulations. See "Government Regulation — Horse Racing". As it is currently unclear whether or to what extent the proposed regulations may be amended prior to becoming final, it is uncertain if the regulations or interpretations by U.S. Federal law enforcement authorities will benefit our account wagering operations or require us to curtail our account wagering operations. If our operations need to be curtailed we may suffer a materially adverse impact on our account wagering business which, in turn could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and financial performance. Since the passage of the federal Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in the United States, it is unclear just how federal and/or state prosecutors will address wagers that involve parties from outside the United States. If this new act is interpreted as prohibiting international wagers, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and financial performance. Even before the passage of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, certain financial institutions began blocking the use of credit cards issued by them for Internet gambling, either voluntarily or as part of a settlement with the office of the Attorney General for New York. Legislation or actions of this nature, if enacted 41 or implemented without providing for a meaningful exception to allow account wagering to be conducted as it is currently being conducted by the U.S. horse racing industry, could inhibit account wagering by restricting or prohibiting its use altogether or, at a minimum, by restricting or prohibiting the use of credit cards and other commonly used financial instruments to fund wagering accounts. If enacted or implemented, these or any other forms of legislation or practices restricting account wagering could cause our business and its growth to suffer. The U.S. Federal Government's response to a recent ruling by the World Trade Organization on the U.S.'s Internet gambling policy could adversely affect our financial performance. In the spring of 2005, the World Trade Organization Appellate Body ruled that a claim from the island country of Antigua regarding U.S. Federal policy on international gambling may have merit due to an apparent inconsistency in how the U.S. treats interstate pari-mutuel wagers under the Interstate Horseracing Act and all other sports wagers, both on an interstate and international basis. The WTO Appellate Body ruled that the Interstate Horseracing Act raised questions regarding whether the U.S. has taken a consistently negative position regarding Internet wagering across state and international boundaries. As a part of its ruling, the WTO Appellate Body ordered the U.S. to clarify its position on interstate pari-mutuel wagering on or before April 3, 2006. The Federal government elected to file no response, preferring to rely, instead on its historical position that interstate account wagering violates the U.S. Federal Wire Act. The U.S. has subsequently pursued eliminating gambling from the list of permitted services that are among the permitted services contained in the treaty that was the subject of Antigua's complaint to the World Trade Organization. However, there are no assurances that such approach will ultimately result in establishing a consensus. If a consensus is not established, the extent to which Federal authorities successfully prosecute account wagering operators based in the United States or that take wagers from United States residents could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business, financial condition, operating results and financial performance. Alternatively, if, as a result of the U.S.'s position, offshore wagering is permitted into the United States, that also could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance. Uncertainty as to the effect of Congress' attempt to eliminate the federal income tax withholding requirement on winning wagers by foreign nationals could subject us to tax liability. In October 2004, a bill was enacted to enable U.S. pari-mutuel wagering operators to accept wagers from foreign nationals located in foreign countries into their pari-mutuel pools. The previous law required U.S. pari-mutuel wagering operators to withhold federal income tax on any winning wagers placed by foreign nationals located in foreign countries. Any failure to withhold income tax from these wagers made the payer entity liable. We believe that the new law reflects Congress' intent to eliminate the tax withholding requirement from winning pari-mutuel wagers placed by foreign nationals located in foreign countries. In the absence of specific rules expressing how this new law is to be interpreted, however, there is a risk that the law will be interpreted differently from Congress' apparent intent, thus imposing an obligation on tracks to continue withholding federal income tax from winning wagers by foreign nationals located in foreign countries. This uncertainty could expose us to tax liability if it is determined that our method for accepting foreign wagers into our pools is incorrect. Any resulting tax liability imposed on us could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and financial performance. We may not be able to continue to operate our slot facility at Gulfstream Park in the long term if the constitutional amendment adopting the slots initiative is determined to be invalid. At December 31, 2007, our casino facility at Gulfstream Park had a carrying value of $29.6 million. On November 15, 2006, the Company opened the slots facility at Gulfstream Park, which now offers approximately 825 slot machines. The Company opened the slots facilities despite an August 2006 decision rendered by the Florida First District Court of Appeals that reversed a lower court decision granting summary judgment in favor of "Floridians for a Level Playing Field" ("FLPF"), a group in which Gulfstream Park is a member. The Court ruled that a trial is necessary to determine whether the constitutional amendment adopting the slots initiative, approved by Floridians in the November 2004 election, was invalid because the petitions bringing the initiative forward did not contain the minimum number of valid signatures. FLPF filed an application for a rehearing, rehearing en banc before the full panel of the Florida First District Court of Appeals and Certification by the Florida Supreme Court. On November 30, 2006, in a split decision, the en banc court affirmed the August 2006 panel decision and certified the matter to the Florida Supreme Court, which stayed 42 the appellate court ruling pending its jurisdictional review of the matter. On September 27, 2007, the Florida Supreme Court ruled that the matter was not procedurally proper for consideration by the court. Its order effectively remanded the matter to the trial court for a trial on the merits. A trial on the merits will likely take over a year to fully develop and could take as many as three years to achieve a full factual record and trial court ruling for an appellate court to review. The Company believes that the August 2006 decision rendered by the Florida First District Court of Appeals is incorrect and that any allegations of fraud in the securing of the petitions will ultimately be disproven at the trial level, and accordingly, we have proceeded to open the slots facility. In the event the November 2004 election results are ultimately held to be invalid, we could potentially have a write-down of casino assets and our Florida operations would be negatively impacted. We face significant competition from other racetrack operators, including those in states where more extensive gaming options are authorized, which could hurt our operating results. We face significant competition in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate racetracks and we expect this competition to intensify as new racetrack operators enter our markets and existing competitors expand their operations and consolidate management of multiple racetracks. In addition, the introduction of legislation enabling slot machines or video lottery terminals to be installed at racetracks in certain states allows those racetracks to increase their purses and compete more effectively with us for horse owners, trainers and customers. Competition from existing racetrack operators, as well as the addition of new competitors, may have a material adverse effect on our future performance and operating results. Competition from non-racetrack gaming operators may reduce the amount wagered at our facilities and materially adversely affect our operating results. We compete for customers with casinos, sports wagering services and other non-racetrack gaming operators, including government-sponsored lotteries, which benefit from numerous distribution channels, including supermarkets and convenience stores, as well as from frequent and extensive advertising campaigns. We do not enjoy the same access to the gaming public or possess the advertising resources that are available to government sponsored lotteries as well as some of our other non-racetrack competitors, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with them. We currently face significant competition from Internet and other forms of account wagering, which may reduce our profitability. Internet and other account wagering gaming services allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and casino games from home. Although many on-line wagering services are operating from offshore locations in violation of U.S. law by accepting wagers from U.S. residents, they may divert wagering dollars from legitimate wagering venues such as our racetracks and account wagering operations. Moreover, our racetrack operations generally require greater ongoing capital expenditures in order to expand our business than the capital expenditures required by Internet and other account wagering gaming operators. Currently, we cannot offer the diverse gaming options provided by many Internet and other account wagering gaming operators and may face significantly greater costs in operating our business. Our inability to compete successfully with these operators could be materially adverse to our business. It is anticipated that the passage of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Funding Prohibition Act will reduce the amount of competition from non-pari-mutuel account wagering operations, however, it is unclear at this time whether this new law will indeed curtail this type of wagering activity. In addition, the market for account wagering is affected by changing technology. Our ability to anticipate such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced services on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to expand, remain competitive and attract new customers. It is not certain that TrackNet Media will exist beyond the initial five year term provided for in the limited liability company agreement under which it was formed. The TrackNet Media limited liability agreement provides for an initial five year term. Although that agreement contemplates that it may be extended, such an extension would only occur if both MEC and Churchill Downs decide to do so. As Churchill Downs is a competitor in the horseracing industry, there is a possibility that one or both of the parties may decide not to continue with the joint venture arrangement, in which case there 43 may be considerable effort and cost expended to unwind the joint venture. Also, if the joint venture does not continue past the end of the initial term, we may lose access to Churchill Downs racing content. TrackNet Media may not be able to enter into agreements with additional content owners. In the event, the main competitor of HRTV™, TVG, is able to sign other horseracing content owners to exclusive agreements, as has been their past business practice, those content owners will not be able to make available their content to TrackNet Media, and HRTV™, respectively, which will in turn negatively impact our ability to attract additional customers. Expansion of gaming conducted by Native American groups may lead to increased competition in our industry, which may negatively impact our growth and profitability. In March 2000, the California state constitution was amended, resulting in the expansion of gaming activities permitted to be conducted by Native American groups in California. This has led to, and may continue to lead to, increased competition and may have an adverse effect on the profitability of Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields and our future growth in California. It may also affect the purses that those tracks are able to offer and therefore adversely affect our ability to attract top horses. Several Native American groups in Florida have previously expressed interest in opening or expanding existing casinos in southern Florida, which could compete with Gulfstream Park and reduce its profitability. For example, the Seminole Tribe of Florida has partnered with Hard Rock International to open hotel and casino operations in Tampa and Hollywood, Florida. Also, the State of Florida has entered into a November 14, 2007 agreement with the Seminole Tribe of Florida approving tribal compacts. Though the validity of Governor Charlie Crist's actions are being challenged in litigation by, among others, the House of Representatives, if the agreement with the Seminole Tribe is ultimately upheld, our facilities will face even greater competition. Officials with the Miami, Oklahoma based Shawnnee Tribe announced January 23, 2008 that they had made a filing with the Bureau of Indian Affairs in connection with a plan to have 104 acres of land in northeast Oklahoma City put into federal trust for the purpose of a resort development which would include casino facilities. It is currently too early to determine if the Shawnee Tribe's plan will succeed, though if it does it would represent a significant challenge to our casino operations at Remington Park. Moreover, other Native American groups may open or expand casinos in other regions of the country where we currently operate, or plan to operate, racetracks or other gaming operations. Any such competition from Native American groups could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Some jurisdictions view our operations primarily as a means of raising taxes, and therefore we are particularly vulnerable to additional or increased taxes and fees. We believe that the prospect of raising significant additional revenue through taxes and fees is one of the primary reasons that certain jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to the normal federal, state, provincial and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees may be increased at any time. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. For instance, U.S. legislators have proposed the imposition of a U.S. federal tax on gross gaming revenues. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of any such changes in tax laws or their administration; however, if enacted, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. 44 Industry controversies could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation, or industry practices of the horse racing industry, which could materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and increase our costs, and therefore adversely affect our revenue and operating results. In general, the pari-mutuel wagering industry is adversely affected by negative information that can erode bettor confidence. Any investigation (whether or not charges are ultimately laid) or any materially negative information arising out of an investigation by the FBI or any other federal, state or industry regulatory body, including, without limitation, any negative information concerning the internal controls and security of totalisator systems related to pari-mutuel wagering activities, may materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing. Such a reduction would likely negatively impact the revenue and earnings of companies engaged in the horse racing industry, including us. Improper conduct concerns can also lead to the imposition of additional controls, which may in some cases negatively impact our business and results from operations. For example, several persons were convicted of fraudulent conduct in connection with certain Pick 6 wagers made on the 2002 Breeders' Cup hosted by Arlington Park in Chicago, Illinois. As a result of the Pick 6 controversy, the horse racing industry focused on another area of bettor concern, late odds changes, which sometimes occur as odds updates in the totalisator system cause significant changes in the odds after a race has commenced. We have expended considerable resources in connection with our role with various industry groups that are focused on making technological improvements in an effort to, among other things, reduce late odds shifts and provide additional controls. Also, in January 2005, the FBI announced indictments against 17 individuals alleged to have been engaged in money laundering, tax evasion and an illegal gambling conspiracy, in each case arising out of incidents connected with the horseracing industry. Certain of the alleged criminal acts are purported to have occurred through the facilities of certain rebate wagering operations, known as "rebate shops", that commingle significant amounts of wagers into wager pools hosted by U.S. racetrack operators, including MEC. One of the indictments arose out of an alleged scheme of doping horses to enhance performance. None of the indictments accused any rebate shops or U.S. racetrack operators of wrongdoing, however, the full impact of this controversy on bettor confidence is unclear. If we pay persons who place fraudulent "winning" wagers, we would remain liable to pay the holders of the proper winning wagers the full amount due to them. We may be subject to claims from customers for fraudulent "winning" wagers. If we paid those claims, we would remain liable to the holders of the proper winning wagers for the full amount due to them and would have the responsibility to attempt to recover the money that we paid on the fraudulent claims. We may not be able to recover that money, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally and may be impacted by a reduction in live racing dates due to regulatory factors. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the seasonality associated with the racing schedules at our racetracks. Generally, our revenues from racetrack operations are greater in the first quarter of the calendar year than in any other quarter. We have a limited number of live racing dates at each of our racetracks and the number of live racing dates varies somewhat from year to year. The allocation of live racing dates in most of the jurisdictions in which we operate is subject to regulatory approval from year to year and, in any given year, we may not receive the same or more racing dates than we have had in prior years. We are also faced with the prospect that competing racetracks may seek to have some of our historical dates allocated to them. A significant decrease in the number of our live racing dates would reduce our revenues and cause our business to suffer. Compliance with new requirements mandated by regulators can represent a significant cost and, in the event those requirements must be met quickly, could lead to operational difficulties. During January and early February 2008, additional work on drainage problems was required on the synthetic track surface installed at Santa Anita Park. As a result of these problems and the additional work required, racing at Santa Anita Park was cancelled on 11 days (offset in part by three rescheduled days) during 45 the critical time of the opening of the 2008 meet, and the running of the California half of the Sunshine Millions was jeopardized. Unfavourable weather conditions may result in a reduction in the number of races we hold. Since horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavourable weather conditions, including extremely high or low temperatures, excessive precipitation, storms or hurricanes, may cause races to be cancelled or may reduce attendance and wagering. Since a substantial portion of our operating expenses is fixed, a reduction in the number of races held or the number of horses racing due to unfavourable weather would reduce our revenues and cause our business to suffer. We periodically enter into agreements with third parties over whom we have limited control but whose conduct could affect the licenses that we hold in various jurisdictions. From time to time, we may enter into agreements with third parties over whom we have limited control. Conduct arising from or related to these agreements or joint venture arrangements could have an impact on the various licenses that our subsidiaries hold in multiple jurisdictions. If one of these agreements or joint venture arrangements has an adverse impact on any of these licenses, such adverse impact could have a material adverse impact on us or our financial condition, operating results or prospects, primarily through the impact associated with any loss, denial, suspension or other penalty imposed on such licenses. The profitability of our racetracks is partially dependent upon the size and health of the local horse population in the areas in which our racetracks are located. Horse population is a factor in a racetrack's profitability because it generally affects the average number of horses (i.e., the average "field size") that run in races. Larger field sizes generally mean increased wagering and higher wagering revenues due to a number of factors, including the availability of exotic bets (such as "exacta" and "trifecta" wagers). Various factors have led to both short-term and long-term declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases, such as the Mare Reproductive Loss Syndrome, which can cause large numbers of mares to sustain late term abortions or embryonic loss, the neurologic form of Equine Herpes Virus-l and Strangles, which is a disease of the respiratory system caused by the organism Streptococcus equi. If any of our tracks are faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, or if we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our tracks by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, well-maintained racetracks, better living conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our tracks, and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could decrease. In addition to equine specific maladies, in the event other serious diseases present themselves and pose a serious threat to the horse population and/or people working in our operations, which are labor intensive in a number of cases, we may be required to cease operations at affected locations until such time as the threat has passed, in which case our operations would likely be negatively impacted. We depend on agreements with our horsemen's industry associations to operate our business. The U.S. Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as well as various state racing laws, require that, in order to simulcast races and, in some cases conduct live racing, we have written agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks, who are represented by industry associations. In some jurisdictions, if we fail to maintain operative agreements with the industry associations, we may not be permitted to conduct live racing or simulcasting at tracks or account wagering from hubs located within those jurisdictions. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are generally subject to the approval of the industry associations. Should we fail to renew existing agreements with the industry associations on satisfactory terms or fail to obtain approval for new simulcast agreements, we would lose revenues and our operating results would suffer. 46 If we are unable to continue to negotiate satisfactory union contracts, some of our employees may commence a strike. A strike by our employees or a work stoppage by backstretch personnel, who are employed by horse owners and trainers, may lead to lost revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 5,300 employees, approximately 3,000 of whom were represented by unions. A strike or other work stoppage by our employees could lead to lost revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Legislation enacted in California in 2002 could facilitate the organization of backstretch personnel in that state. A strike by backstretch personnel could, even though they are not our employees, lead to lost revenues and therefore adversely affect our operating results. An earthquake in California could interrupt our operations at Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields, which would adversely impact our cash flow from these racetracks. Two of our largest racetracks, Santa Anita Park and Golden Gate Fields, are located in California and are therefore subject to greater earthquake risks than our other operations. We do not maintain significant earthquake insurance on the structures at our California racetracks. We maintain fire insurance for fire risks, including those resulting from earthquakes, subject to policy limits and deductibles. There can be no assurance that earthquakes or the fires often caused by earthquakes will not seriously damage our California racetracks and related properties or that the recoverable amount of insurance proceeds will be sufficient to fully cover reconstruction costs and other losses. If an uninsured or underinsured loss occurs, we could lose anticipated revenue and cash flow from our California racetracks. A severe hurricane hitting the Miami area could interrupt our operations at Gulfstream Park, which would adversely impact our cash flow from this track. Gulfstream Park is located in Aventura, Florida, just inland from the Atlantic Ocean. The new construction at Gulfstream Park has been built to withstand severe winds but significant flooding resulting from a hurricane or other tropical storm could result in significant damage to the facility. If the facility sustained serious damage, the operations and results would be negatively impacted. Real Estate Ownership and Development Risks Our ownership and development of real estate is subject to risks and may involve significant ongoing expenditures or losses that could adversely affect our operating results. All real estate investments are subject to risks including: general economic conditions, such as the availability and cost of financing; local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of residential, office, retail or warehousing space, or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; governmental regulation, including taxation of property and environmental legislation; and the attractiveness of properties to potential purchasers or tenants. The real estate industry is also capital intensive and sensitive to interest rates. Further, significant expenditures, including property taxes, mortgage payments, maintenance costs, insurance costs and related charges, must be made throughout the period of ownership of real property, which expenditures may negatively impact our operating results. Redevelopment projects at our racetracks may result in a write down of the value of certain assets may cause temporary disruptions of our racing operations. We have completed the redevelopment of the racing surfaces, the grandstand and the backstretch facilities at Gulfstream Park in Florida. We have also completed the redevelopment of the dirt racing surfaces and the turf track at Laurel Park. These redevelopments resulted in write-downs in 2004 of $26.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively. The redevelopment at Gulfstream Park resulted in a racing meet using temporary facilities for 2005 and the re-opening of Laurel Park for its 2004 - 2005 meet was delayed due to construction delays, which also resulted in a loss of a number of racing days. In addition, since the commencement in June 2007 of construction of our Forest City joint venture mixed-use development, The Village at Gulfstream 47 Park™, on lands immediately adjacent to Gulfstream Park, a perceived lack of convenient parking has been a contributing factor in a reduction in attendance. Racetrack redevelopment efforts made pursuant to deadlines mandated by state regulators may result in difficulties with integration that adversely impact racetrack performance. During the summer of 2007 a synthetic track surface was installed at Santa Anita Park, in order to meet the installation deadline mandated by the CHRB. During January and early February 2008, additional work on the track surface was required to address drainage problems. As a result of these problems and the additional work required, racing at Santa Anita Park had to be cancelled on 11 days (offset in part by three rescheduled days) during the critical time of the opening of the 2008 meet, and the running of the California half of the Sunshine Millions was jeopardized. In the event regulators in other states in which we operate adopt the same approach as the CHRB and mandate the installation of synthetic tracks, in addition to the capital cost associated with such installations, there is a risk that installation problems could develop and race days could be lost, which in turn would negatively impact financial performance. We may not be able to complete expansion or redevelopment projects successfully and on time, which would materially adversely affect our growth and our operating results. We intend to further develop our racetracks and expand our gaming activities. Numerous factors, including regulatory and financial constraints, could cause us to alter, delay or abandon our existing plans. If we proceed to develop new facilities or enhance our existing facilities, we face numerous risks that could require substantial changes to our plans. These risks include the inability to secure all required permits and the failure to resolve potential land use issues, as well as risks typically associated with any construction project, including possible shortages of materials or skilled labour, unforeseen engineering or environmental problems, delays and work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost overruns. For example, Gulfstream Park was forced to run its 2005 meet from temporary facilities which reduced total on-track wagering at Gulfstream Park and attendance in 2005. In addition, we encountered delays in the rebuilding of the racetrack surfaces at Laurel Park, which resulted in a late re-opening of Laurel Park for its 2004 - 2005 meet and a loss of certain race dates. Even if completed in a timely manner, an expansion project may not be successful, which would affect our growth and could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. The recent subprime mortgage crisis in the United States, in which the majority of our properties are situated, could have various negative impacts on our properties, business and our debt elimination plan. The subprime mortgage crisis of 2007 has seen high default rates on subprime and other mortgage loans made to higher-risk borrowers with lower income or lesser credit history than "prime" borrowers. As a result, there was a sharp rise in home foreclosures which started in the United States during the Fall of 2006, which became a global financial crisis during 2007 and 2008. Though the full impact of the crisis is not yet known, if it negatively impacts the value of our real estate holdings due to a general devaluing of real estate, it may be difficult to execute plans to lease space at our two mixed-use developments, "The Village at Gulfstream Park™" in Florida, construction of which commenced in June 2007, and The Shops at Santa Anita in California, construction of which has not yet commenced due to a neighboring land owner's legal challenge to the Arcadia City Council's approval of the development. The weak U.S. real estate and credit markets have adversely impacted our progress to date on asset sales we intend to complete in connection with our September 2007 adopted debt elimination plan. We face strict environmental regulation and may be subject to liability for environmental damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of requirements under environmental laws and regulations relating to waste water discharge, waste management and storage of hazardous substances. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can, in some circumstances, require significant capital expenditures. Moreover, violations can result in significant penalties and, in some cases, interruption or cessation of operations. The California Water Quality Board requires that Santa Anita Park apply for, and keep in force, a wastewater discharge permit which governs and regulates the amount of contaminated water that may be discharged into the storm drain and the water table as a result of maintenance of the horse population on site. With the issuance of the permit, there are 48 certain compliance efforts that the California Water Quality Board has requested that management address over the five-year permit period. The California Water Quality Board has not given deadlines for immediate compliance nor is our current permit at risk for non-compliance. Citations are not expected unless Santa Anita Park does not make an effort to comply. Upon receipt of the permit, we commenced discussions with the California Water Quality Board regarding the nature of the compliance requests and commenced the planning process as to how the Company would address these requirements over the next five years. It is our expectation that a number of these requirements are being addressed through planned capital projects, including the Summer 2007 installation of the polytrack a new, synthetic racing surface and the anticipated rebuild of barns on the backside over the next several years. Given the fact that a number of these remediation requirements would be better addressed through capital projects rather than merely a repair or fix of existing facilities, the ultimate cost of remediation will be impacted by the decision on how to best address the remediation requirements. Furthermore, we may not have all required environmental permits and we may not otherwise be in compliance with all applicable environmental requirements. Where we do not have an environmental permit but one may be required, we will determine if one is in fact required and, if so, will seek to obtain one and address any related compliance issues, which may require significant capital expenditures. Various environmental laws and regulations in the United States, Canada and Europe impose liability on us as a current or previous owner and manager of real property, for the cost of maintenance, removal and remediation of hazardous substances released or deposited on or in properties now or previously owned or managed by us or disposed of in other locations. Our ability to sell properties with hazardous substance contamination or to borrow money using that property as collateral may also be uncertain. Changes to environmental laws and regulations, resulting in more stringent terms of compliance, or the enactment of new environmental legislation, could expose us to additional liabilities and ongoing expenses. Any of these environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to sell or otherwise monetize some of our real estate, excess racing real estate and revenue-producing non-racing real estate when we need to or at the price we want, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition. At times, it may be difficult for us to dispose of or otherwise monetize some of our excess racing real estate and revenue-producing non-racing real estate. The costs of holding real estate may be high and we may be faced with ongoing expenditures with little prospect of earning revenue on our excess racing real estate properties. If we have inadequate cash reserves or credit facilities, we may have to dispose of properties at prices that are substantially below the prices we desire, and in some cases, below the prices we originally paid for the properties, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and our growth plans. We require governmental approvals for some of our properties which may take a long time to obtain or which may not be granted, either of which could materially adversely affect our existing business or our growth. Some of our properties will require zoning and other approvals from local government agencies. The process of obtaining these approvals may take many months and we might not obtain the necessary approvals. Holding costs, while regulatory approvals are being sought, and delays may render a project economically unfeasible. If we do not obtain all of our necessary approvals, our plans, growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Securities NASDAQ Delisting Should our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock be delisted by NASDAQ for any reason, there could be a material adverse effect on the liquidity of the shares of Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. As a result of the bid price of our publicly held Class A Subordinate Voting Stock closing below the $1.00 per share minimum for 30 consecutive business days, on February 12, 2008, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market advising that in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, MEC has until August 11, 2008 (or such later date as may be permitted by Nasdaq) to regain compliance with the minimum bid price for MEC's 49 publicly held Class A Subordinate Voting Stock required for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. The February 12, 2008 letter further stated, that we will receive further notification from Nasdaq staff (i) stating that we have regained compliance, in the event the bid price of MEC's Class A Subordinate Voting Stock on the Nasdaq Global Market closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days or (ii) indicating that our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock will be delisted, in the event the minimum bid price requirement is not satisfied. Our stock price may be volatile, and future issuances or sales of our stock may decrease our stock price. The trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. The following factors have had, and may continue to have, a significant effect on the market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock: •our historical and anticipated operating results; •the announcement of new wagering and gaming opportunities by us or our competitors; •the passage or anticipated passage of legislation affecting horse racing or gaming; •developments affecting the horse racing or gaming industries generally; •sales or other issuances or the perception of potential sales or issuances, including in connection with our past and future acquisitions, of substantial amounts of our shares. We have an effective shelf registration statement outstanding that permits us to sell up to $300 million of certain types of debt and/or equity securities. As of March 10, 2008, we have not sold any securities registered under this shelf registration statement. We also have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (the "U.S. Registration Statement") filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and a preliminary short form base shelf prospectus (the "Canadian Prospectus") filed with the securities commissions in each of the Provinces of Canada (collectively, the "Canadian Securities Commissions"). MEC will be able to offer and sell up to U.S. $500 million of its equity securities (including stock, warrants, units and, subject to filing a Canadian rights offering circular or prospectus with the Canadian Securities Commissions, rights) from time to time in one or more public offerings or other offerings. The terms of any such future offerings would be established at the time of such offering; •sales or the expectation of sales by MI Developments Inc. of a portion of our shares held by it, or by our other significant stockholders; and •a shift in investor interest away from the gaming industry, in general. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock and other securities, regardless of our financial condition and operating results. The trading price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock could decrease as a result of our issuing additional shares as consideration for future acquisitions or efforts to raise funds to finance operations. We may issue our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock as full or partial consideration in connection with future acquisitions or efforts to raise funds to finance operations. To the extent that we do so, the percentage of our common equity and voting stock that our existing stockholders own will decrease and, particularly if such acquisitions or operations do not contribute proportionately to our profitability, the trading price of our shares may also decrease. Sales or a spin-off or other distribution of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock by MI Developments Inc. or by certain of our other significant stockholders under our registration statements could depress our stock price. As of March 10, 2008, MI Developments Inc. owned, directly or indirectly, 4,362,328 shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock and 58,466,056 shares of our Class B Stock (which are convertible into shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock on a one-for-one basis). In addition, we have an effective registration statement that permits the secondary sale of shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock by some of our stockholders who received those shares in connection with our past acquisitions. A total of 4,793,043 shares were initially registered pursuant to that registration statement. In December 2002, we issued $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 71/4% convertible Subordinated Notes due December 15, 2009 that are currently 50 convertible into 8,823,529 shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock (subject to certain potential adjustments). In June 2003, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 8.55% Convertible Subordinated Notes due June 15, 2010 that are convertible into 21,276,595 shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. We have effective registration statements filed with the SEC covering all such shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock issuable upon the conversion of such notes. In connection with the October 29, 2007 closing by MEC of a $20.0 million private placement of the Company's Class A Subordinate Voting Stock to Fair Enterprise, Fair Enterprise was issued 8.9 million shares of Class A Subordinate Voting Stock at a price of $2.25 per share. As a result of the private placement, the percentage of Class A Subordinate Voting Stock beneficially owned by Fair Enterprise has increased to approximately 21.6% of the issued and outstanding Class A Subordinate Voting Stock, representing approximately 10.8% of the equity of the Company. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock, by MID, Fair Enterprise or upon conversion of our Convertible Notes could depress the prevailing market price of our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock. We have no current plans to pay dividends and may never pay dividends. We have not paid any dividends to date on our Class A Subordinate Voting Stock and we do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends until we generate after-tax profits, if ever. See "Dividends and Dividend Policy" below. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 