ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully review the following risks associated with owning our common stock. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected in the event any of the following risks were to be realized. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report and incorporated by reference herein, including our financial statements and the related notes. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Rapid changes in technology, regulatory requirements and industry standards could render our products, software and services unmarketable or obsolete, and we may be unable to successfully introduce new products and services. 14 Table of Contents To succeed, we must continually introduce new products, software and services and change and improve our solutions in response to new competitive product introductions, rapid technological developments, changes in regulatory requirements, and changes in operating systems, Internet access, application and networking software, computer and communications hardware, programming tools, computer language technology and other security threats. Product and service development for security, productivity, mobility, and data protection solutions requires substantial engineering time and testing. The disparities between the laws and administrative measures adopted by various jurisdictions in which we do business create uncertainty over the applicability, scope, and form of the regulations affecting our products and services and the timing for compliance with applicable regulations. Releasing new products, software and services prematurely may result in quality problems, and delays may result in loss of customer confidence and market share. In the past, we have on occasion experienced delays in the scheduled introduction of new and enhanced products, software and services, and we may experience delays in the future. We may be unable to develop new products, software, and services or achieve and maintain market acceptance of them once they have come to market. Furthermore, when we do introduce new or enhanced products, software and services, we may be unable to manage the transition from previous generations of products or previous versions of software and services to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excessive inventories of older products, and deliver enough new products, software, and services to meet customer demand. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business could be adversely affected. Sales to three major distributors account for a significant amount of our revenue, and if they or others cancel or delay purchase orders or fail to pay us in a timely fashion, and we are unable to offset these factors our revenue may decline and the price of our stock may fall. Sales through Alternative Technologies, Tech Data, and Ingram Micro account for a significant portion of our revenue. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, substantially all of our sales were to distributors and authorized resellers as shown in the following table, expressed as a percentage of total revenue: 2008 2007 2006 Distributors/Resellers 99% 98% 98% Sales through Alternative Technologies, Tech Data, and Ingram Micro for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 represented the following percentages of total revenue: 2008 2007 2006 Alternative Technology 16% 18% 18% Tech Data 17% 17% 18% Ingram Micro 16% 16% 17% For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our top 10 distributors and resellers accounted for 67% of our total revenue. In 2007 and 2006, our top 10 distributors and resellers accounted for 67% and 69%, respectively of total revenue. We anticipate that sales of our solutions to relatively few distributors will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. Although we have renewable one-year agreements with Alternative Technologies, Tech Data, and Ingram Micro and certain other large distributors, these contracts are subject to termination at any time. We cannot assure you that any of these distributors will continue to place orders with us, that orders will continue at the levels of previous periods, or that we will be able to obtain large orders from new distributors or resellers. We also anticipate that sales of our solutions to certain enterprise customers will account for an increasing portion of our revenue. We cannot assure you that sales to enterprise customers will materialize at anticipated levels. The current financial turmoil impacting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets. This lowering of the level of liquidity in the credit markets may impact the ability of our distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services. If any of the foregoing should occur, our rate of revenue growth will suffer, our revenue may decline and our business will be adversely affected. In addition, Alternative Technology, Tech Data, and Ingram Micro represented the following dollar amount and percentages of our accounts receivable balance (in millions, except for percentages): 15 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Alternative Technology $2.8M 13% $1.1M 4% $5.3M 23% Tech Data $2.0M 10% $3.1M 12% $1.9M 8% Ingram Micro $2.5M 12% $3.6M 14% $4.0M 17% In the event the liquidity of our distributors or enterprise customers is adversely impacted by the current uncertainties in the financial markets, they may be unable to pay us in a timely manner. The failure to receive timely payment from our distributors or enterprise customers could adversely affect our balance sheet, our results of operations and our creditworthiness. If we are unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive market for Internet security products, software, and services, our business could be adversely affected. The market for Internet security products, software, and services is global and highly competitive. Competition in our market continues to increase, and we expect competition to further intensify in the future. There are few substantial barriers to entry and additional competition from existing competitors and new market entrants will likely occur in the future. Current and potential competitors in our markets include, but are not limited to, Check Point, Microsoft, Symantec, Cisco Systems, Lucent Technologies, Nokia, Fortinet, WatchGuard Technologies, Barracuda Networks, and Juniper Networks, all of which sell worldwide or have a presence in most of the major markets for such products. Competitors to date have generally targeted the security needs of enterprises of every size with firewall and VPN products that range in price starting from below $400 to more than $35,000. We may experience increased competitive pressure for some of our products, software, and services. This increased competitive pressure may result in both lower prices and gross profits. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors focus all of their attention on a single market area rather than offering a comprehensive suite of security solutions and services. In addition, our competitors may bundle products, software and services that are competitive to ours with other products, software and services that they may sell to our current or potential customers. These customers may accept these bundled offerings rather than separately purchasing our offerings. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business could be adversely affected. The current financial crises in the United States and the global capital and credit markets can adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and overall financial strength. Recent turmoil in the world financial markets, the present economic slowdown and the uncertainty over its breadth, depth and duration may continue to put pressure on the global economy and have a negative effect on our business. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended economic recession in the United States and worldwide. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions, such as severely restricted credit, declines in real estate values and unemployment. There can be no assurance that the deterioration in financial markets will not impair our operating results. If conditions in the global economy, United States economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, we could experience material adverse impacts on our business, overall financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Difficulty predicting our future operating results or profitability due to volatility in general economic conditions and in the security, productivity, mobility, and data protection markets may result in a misallocation in spending, and a shortfall in revenue which would harm our operating results. Changes in general economic conditions and the volatility in the demand for network security, content security, and business continuity solutions are two of the many factors underlying our inability to predict our revenue for a given period. Our operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions impacting particular customer and geographic segments 16 Table of Contents of our business. If global economic conditions remain uncertain, persist or deteriorate further, we may experience material impact on our operating results and overall financial condition. A large proportion of our expenses for product development, sales and marketing are fixed for a particular quarter or year, and therefore, we may be unable to implement an immediate decrease in our spending in time to compensate for any unexpected quarterly or annual shortfall in revenue. As a result, any shortfall in revenue would likely adversely affect our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we reported a net income of $4.9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported a net income of $28.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we reported a net loss of $10.8 million. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 is $121.2 million. We do not know if we will be able to sustain profitability in the future. The selling prices of our solution offerings may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits. The average selling prices for our solution offerings may decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures, an overall reduction in demand for our products and services, a change in our mix of products, software, and services, anticipation of introduction of new functionality in our products or software, promotional programs and customers who negotiate price reductions in exchange for longer-term purchase commitments. In addition, competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Furthermore, we anticipate that the average selling prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product, software and service offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at current levels. If the price of individual products, software, or services decline or if the price of our solution offerings decline, our overall revenue may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. We offer retroactive price protection to our major distributors and if we fail to balance their inventory with end- user demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate. This could adversely affect our results of operations. We provide our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. If we reduce the list price of our products, our major distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. As of December 31, 2008, we estimated that approximately $22.4 million of our products in our distributors’ inventory were subject to price protection. We have issued credits of approximately $1,040,000, $494,000, and $481,000 under our price protection policies in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the level of our major distributors’ inventory. If future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on international sales for a substantial amount of our revenue. We face the risk of international business and associated currency fluctuations, which might adversely affect our operating results. International revenue represented 34%, 32%, and 31% of total revenue in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. We expect that international revenue will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue in the foreseeable future. Our performance depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Our risks of doing business abroad include the impact of global economic conditions on the demand for our products and services, the ability of our international channel partners to pay us in a timely fashion, the ability of our international channel partners to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services, and our ability to structure our distribution relationships in a manner consistent with marketplace requirements and on favorable terms. Our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against a local foreign currency, a general and significant trend recently, will increase the price of our products, software, and services in such country and may reduce our sales by making our products, software, and services more expensive in the local currency. A weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials. We are subject to other risks of operating a global business, including potential foreign government regulation of our technology, geopolitical risks associated with political and economic instability, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and changes in foreign countries’ laws affecting such areas as employment relationships, environmental and safety regulation, intellectual property protection and the Internet generally. Delays in deliveries from our suppliers could cause our revenue to decline and adversely affect our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our products incorporate certain components, component subassemblies, or technologies, including our highly integrated system-on-a-chip architecture, that are available from single or limited sources of supply. Specifically, our products rely upon components from companies such as Flextronics, Intel, Cavium, and Marvell. We do not have long-term supply arrangements with any vendor, and any disruption in the supply of these products or technologies may adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary components or technology for our products. If this were to happen, our product shipments may be delayed and business lost, resulting in a decline in sales. In addition, our products utilize components that have in the past been subject to market shortages and price fluctuations. If we experience price increases in our product components, we will experience declines in our gross profit. We license intellectual property, including certain databases and software, and if our licensors experience delays in product updates or provide us with products of substandard quality, the revenue we receive from our products and services that use this intellectual property would be at risk. We have agreements to license intellectual property, including databases and software, which we incorporate as part of certain of our products and services. Licensors of such databases and software may fail to provide us with updated products or may experience delays in providing us with updated products. In addition, our licensors may provide us with products of substandard quality. If either of these events happens, we may be unable to provide our customers with the appropriate level of functionality in our solution offerings. In that event, our customers may purchase similar offerings from one of our competitors, or sales to our customers may be delayed. In either case, our revenue would be adversely affected. We rely primarily on contract manufacturers for our product manufacturing and assembly, and if these operations are disrupted for any reason, we may not be able to ship our products. We currently outsource our hardware manufacturing and assembly to contract manufacturers in the U.S. and Taiwan. Typically, the agreement with our contract manufacturers specify an initial term of one (1) year with automatic yearly renewal terms unless terminated by either party upon 90 days prior written notice. Our operations could be disrupted if we have to switch to a replacement vendor or if our hardware supply is interrupted for any reason. In addition, we provide forecasts of our demand to our contract manufacturers nine months prior to scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have an inadequate component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenue. In addition, lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. Liquidity or other financial problems of our contract manufacturers or reservation of manufacturing capacity by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs. We may also experience shortages of components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products. If any of the foregoing occurs we could lose customer orders and revenue could decline. Sales of our solutions may be adversely affected by various factors which would adversely affect our revenue. Sales of our solutions may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions, including the financial stability of our customers and supply chain; sales and implementation cycles; changes in our product mix; structural variations in sales channels; ability of our channel to absorb new product, software and service introductions; ability of our sales organization to sell into enterprise level accounts; acceptance of our solutions in the market place; and changes in our supply chain model. These changes may result in corresponding variations in order backlog. A variation in backlog levels could result in less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. Sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand, price and product competition in the markets we service, introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and new product, software or service offerings, and financial difficulties experienced by our distributors, resellers or end-users. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers’ ability to provide specific components resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue could be adversely affected for a quarter or longer. The failure to successfully conduct offshore activities could adversely affect results of operations. 18 Table of Contents To better align our costs with market conditions, increase its presence in growing markets, and enhance productivity and operational efficiency, we conduct engineering, development and certain technical support activities in India and China. We have undertaken a transition of certain technical support activities to facilities located in India. In addition, we conduct certain engineering and development activities in Shanghai, China. As part of these offshore activities we have established a corporate presence in both India and China, entered into a long-term lease for facilities to support these offshore efforts, and are hiring employees. If we are unable to effectively develop and implement our offshore strategies, including the ability to recruit or retain qualified technical personnel, or are unable to build the necessary corporate infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner, or are unable to effectively integrate certain technical support and engineering functions, the costs associated with the these offshore activities may be greater than anticipated and we may not realize anticipated productivity improvements and may experience other operational difficulties, and or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental and safety regulations enacted in various jurisdictions in which we do business may increase the component costs of our products and if we experience delays in shipment of compliant products our revenue would decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with out global business operations, including but not limited to regulations relating to the development, manufacture, and use of its products and, the safe use of chemicals, and recycling and disposal of material used in its products. Various jurisdictions in which we do business are in the process of implementing environmental and safety directives that impact manufacturers doing business in those jurisdictions. The disparities between the regulatory frameworks adopted create uncertainty over the applicability, scope, and form of the regulations affecting our products and the timing for compliance with the applicable regulations. Our inability to comply with applicable environmental and safety regulations in a timely fashion may subject us to fines and penalties levied by appropriate regulatory authorities. Certain of these regulations may necessitate changes to the components used in our products which could result in an increase in product cost and a decrease in our gross profit. Further, while we and our contract manufacturers constantly review environmental and safety regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, the timetable for implementation of these regulations may result in delays in our ability to provide compliant products in a timely manner to those markets which would cause our revenues to decline and our operating results to be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have incurred considerable expense and have devoted additional management resources to on going Section 404 compliance activity. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and the products and services acquired may not be accepted by the market. As a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. We are continually reviewing the market for possible corporate opportunities and we may announce acquisitions or investments in other companies, products, or technologies in the future. As part of each transaction, we will be required to integrate operations, train, retain, and motivate the personnel of these entities. We may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies across our entire enterprise and if the products and services released as a result of these acquisitions experience quality problems or are otherwise not accepted by the market, we may suffer a loss of confidence by our distributors, resellers and end users and sales of these products and services will not meet expectations. As a consequence, these acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers, and strategic partners. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, due to acquisitions made in the past, our profitability 19 Table of Contents has suffered because of acquisition-related costs, amortization costs, and impairment losses for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. We cannot be certain that our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective or sufficient when tested by increased scale of growth or the impact of acquisitions. It may be difficult to design and implement effective internal controls over financial reporting for combined operations and differences in existing controls of acquired businesses may result in weaknesses that require remediation when internal controls over financial reporting are combined. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operations, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement improvements to our internal reporting systems and controls in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies and weaknesses in existing systems and controls especially when such systems and controls are tested by increased scale of growth or the impact of acquisitions. Our Financial Statements could be affected by the need to restate previously issued annual or interim financial statements. In the event an error in our financial statements requires us to report that previously reported financial statements should no longer be relied upon, amended financial statements for such previously reported periods would be required. In such an event, we may be unable to file our current interim or annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a timely fashion and may be subject to delisting by the NASDAQ Global Market. Furthermore, we may be unable to certify the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm may be unable to attest thereto. In such circumstances, investors could lose confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting, our disclosure controls, and the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock and could cause serious harm to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; our ability to use net operating losses of acquired companies to the fullest extent; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in share-based compensation expense; and changes in tax laws in the countries in which we operate or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies based on assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our financial statements, including those related to: the valuation and recognition of investments, the valuation of the revenue and accounts receivable, the valuation of inventory, the assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and their estimated useful lives, the valuation and recognition of stock based compensation and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that actual amounts realized from the sale or exchange of certain of our financial instruments may differ significantly from those 20 Table of Contents in our assumptions. In any such case, our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Changes to our senior management may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management to execute our business plan. Changes in our senior management and any future departures of key employees may be disruptive to our business and may adversely affect our operations. Our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key qualified employees is vital to our success. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key engineering, operations, finance, information systems, customer support, and sales and marketing personnel. Our employees may leave us at any time, and we have continuing challenges in retaining employees from acquired companies. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products, software and services. If we are not successful in attracting, retaining, and motivating key employees, our ability to capitalize on our business opportunities and our operating results maybe materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. We currently rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, confidentiality provisions and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property program consists of an on-going patent disclosure and application process, the purchase of intellectual property assets including intellectual property assets from acquisition activity, and the licensing of intellectual property from others. We plan to continue our aggressive plan to build our intellectual property portfolio. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may misappropriate or infringe our intellectual property. We plan to aggressively pursue any such misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Our patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents. Even if we obtain the patents we are seeking, that will not guarantee that our patent rights will be valuable, create a competitive barrier, or will be free from infringement. Furthermore, if any patent is issued, it might be invalidated or circumvented or otherwise fail to provide us any meaningful protection. We face additional risk of adequately protecting our intellectual property when conducting business in countries that have poorly developed or inadequately enforced intellectual property laws. In addition, competitors may independently develop similar or superior technologies or duplicate the technologies we have developed, which could substantially limit the value of our intellectual property. Potential intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Litigation over intellectual property rights is not uncommon in our industry. We may face infringement claims from third parties in the future, or we may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. We expect that infringement or misappropriation claims will be more frequent as the number of products, feature sets in software and services, and the number of competitors grows in the market segments in which we do business. Any litigation, regardless of its success, would probably be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. An adverse result in litigation could also force us to: · stop or delay selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · pay damages; · enter into licensing or royalty agreements, which may be unavailable on acceptable terms; or · redesign products or services that incorporate infringing technology. If any of the above occurs, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. 21 Table of Contents We have been named as defendant in litigation matters that could subject us to liability for significant damages. We are a defendant in on-going litigation matters. No estimate can be made of the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of these litigation matters. Failure to prevail in these matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in the future. In addition, the results of litigation are uncertain and the litigation process may utilize a significant portion of our cash resources and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations, all of which could harm our business. Any alleged or actual failure of our products, software or services to operate as warranted may require us to defend product liability or breach of warranty claims. Our products, software, and services provide network security, business continuity and content security. Networks protected by our products, software and services may be vulnerable to electronic break-ins. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. If a third party were able to successfully overcome our security measures, such a person or entity could misappropriate customer data, third party data stored by our customers and other information, including intellectual property. In addition, the operations of our end user customers may be interrupted. If that happens, affected end-users or others may file actions against us alleging product liability, tort, or breach of warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses from claims through contractual warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, these provisions may not be enforceable. Some courts, for example, have found contractual limitations of liability in standard computer and software contracts to be unenforceable in some circumstances. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and could divert management attention. Although we currently maintain business liability insurance, this coverage may be inadequate or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the market perception of our products, software, and services would likely be adversely affected which could cause us to lose current and potential customers, resellers, distributors or other business partners. If any of the above occurs, our revenue could decline and our business would suffer. A security breach of our internal systems could harm our business. Because we provide Internet security, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. We will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective Internet security protection. Although we have not experienced significant damages from acts of sabotage or unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of Internet security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products, software and services. In addition, such a security breach may impact the ability of our company to operate, including the ability to adequately support our customers. If this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. If our solutions do not interoperate with our end customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or cancelled, which could significantly reduce our revenue. Our solutions are designed to interface with existing networks of our end-users, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards. Many of the networks of our end-user’s contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our solutions must interoperate with the products within these networks as well as with future products that might be added to these networks in order to meet the requirements of our end-users. If we find errors in the existing software used in the networks of our end-users, we may elect to modify our software to fix or overcome these errors so that our solutions will interoperate and scale with their existing software and hardware. If our solutions do not interoperate properly, installations could be delayed or orders for our solutions could be cancelled, which could significantly reduce our revenue. Product errors or defects could result in loss of revenue, delayed market acceptance, and claims against us. We offer one and two year warranty periods on our products. During the warranty period end users may receive a refurbished or replacement product for any defective unit subject to completion of certain procedural requirements. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects. If there is a product failure, we may have to replace all affected products without being able to record revenue for the replacement units, or we may have to refund the purchase price for such units if the defect cannot be 22 Table of Contents resolved. Despite extensive testing, some errors are discovered only after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenue and an increase in warranty related claims against us. Such product defects can negatively impact our products’ reputation and result in reduced sales. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our market. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete with us. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we are unable to meet our future capital requirements, our business will be harmed. We expect our cash on hand, cash equivalents and short-term investments to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. However, at any time, we may decide to raise additional capital to take advantage of strategic opportunities available or attractive financing terms. If we issue equity securities, shareholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, software or services, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Governmental regulations of imports or exports affecting Internet security could affect our revenue. Any additional governmental regulation of imports or exports or failure to obtain required export approval of our encryption technologies could adversely affect our international and domestic sales. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. In response to terrorist activity, governments could enact additional regulation or restriction on the use, import, or export of encryption technology. This additional regulation of encryption technology could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications resulting in decreased demand for our products and services. In addition, some foreign competitors are subject to less stringent controls on exporting their encryption technologies. As a result, they may be able to compete more effectively than we can in the United States and the international Internet security market. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. We believe that it may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · general economic conditions and the effect that such conditions have upon customers’ purchasing decisions; · variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · changes in market valuations of technology and Internet infrastructure companies; · announcements by us of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · the accretive or dilutive effects of acquisitions on operating results; · loss of a major client or failure to complete significant license transactions; 23 Table of Contents · additions or departures of key personnel; · our ability to remediate material weaknesses and/or significant deficiencies, if any, in internal controls over financial reporting in an effective and timely manner; · receipt of an adverse or qualified opinion from our independent auditors regarding our internal controls over financial reporting; · sales of common stock in the future; and · fluctuations in stock market price and volume, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of Internet-related companies. The long sales and implementation cycles for our solutions may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly. The decision of an end-user to purchase our solutions often involves a significant commitment of resources and a lengthy evaluation and qualification process. Throughout the sales cycle, we often spend considerable time educating our channel partners and providing information for prospective end-users regarding the use and benefits of our products, software, and services. Budget constraints, the availability of credit, and the need for multiple approvals within enterprises, carriers, and government entities may delay purchase decisions. Failure to obtain the required approval for a particular project or purchase decision may delay the purchase of our solutions from our channel partners. As a result, the sales cycle for our security solutions could be longer than 90 days. Even after making the decision to purchase our solutions end-users may not deploy these solutions broadly within their networks. The timing of implementation can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the end-user, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the network environment, and the degree of specialized hardware and software configuration necessary to deploy. End-users with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. Large deployments and purchases of our security solutions also require a significant outlay of capital by the end-user. If the deployment of our solutions in these complex network environments is slower than expected, sales through our distributors to our resellers would slow, our revenue could be below our expectations, and our operating results could be adversely affected. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to developing new products or software or enhancements to our products or software could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We license intellectual property from third parties to develop new products or software or enhancements to existing products or software. Third-party licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The inability to obtain third-party licenses required developing new products or software or enhancements to existing products or software could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Seasonality and concentration of revenue at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The rate of our domestic and international sales has been and may continue to be lower in the summer months or be adversely affected by other seasonal factors, both domestically and internationally. During these periods, businesses often defer purchasing decisions. As a result of customer buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force to meet or exceed quarterly and year-end quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of a quarter’s sales orders and earned a substantial portion of a quarter’s revenue during its last month of each quarter. If expected revenue at the end of any quarter is delayed, our revenue for that quarter could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our business is especially subject to the risks of earthquakes, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. 24 Table of Contents Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and some of our contract manufacturer’s facilities, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, certain of our facilities, which include one of our contracted manufacturing facilities, are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to these economies and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays, curtailment or cancellations of customer orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our revenue, gross profits and operating profits may decline and we may not achieve our financial goals and achieve or maintain profitability. We face risks associated with changes in telecommunications regulation and tariffs. Changes in telecommunications requirements in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. We believe it is possible that there may be changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations in the future that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various Federal Communications Commission requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Due to the global nature of our business, economic or social conditions or changes in a particular country or region could adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. We conduct significant sales, research and development, and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, political or social unrest or economic instability or terrorist activity in a specific country or region; macro economic conditions adversely affecting geographies where we do business; trade protection measures; environmental and safety directives and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; government spending patterns affected by political considerations; and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, costs, expenses, and financial condition. We are exposed to various risks associated with the credit and capital markets. Included within our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 were auction rate securities that we purchased for $55.3 million, partially offset by a right issued by one of our investment firms of $45.3 million. Investments in auction rate securities have failed to trade at auctions due to insufficient bids from buyers and cannot be quickly converted into cash, and are considered illiquid at December 31, 2008. The Company has recognized unrealized losses in its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008. If the credit ratings of these investments continue to deteriorate, the fair value of these auction rate securities may decline further. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or if the Company experiences any rating downgrades on any investments in its portfolio, the Company may incur impairment charges to its investment portfolio, which would negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow, and reported earnings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 