ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We desire to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following factors have affected or could affect our actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we may make. Investors should consider carefully the following risks and speculative factors inherent in and affecting our business and an investment in our common stock. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. On March 12, 2009, we completed the MIVA Media Sale. See Part I Explanatory Note for a discussion of the MIVA Media Sale. For risk factors relating to our historical MIVA Media business please see our Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2008. Risks Related to Our Business One paid listings provider, which is a competitor of ours, accounts for a significant portion of our consolidated revenue and substantially all of our revenue following the MIVA Media Sale and any adverse change in that relationship would likely result in a significant decline in our revenue and our business operations could be significantly harmed. In December 2006, we entered into an agreement with Google pursuant to which we agreed to utilize Google's paid listings and algorithmic search services for approved MIVA Direct websites and applications. We renewed our agreement with Google in November 2008 for a two year term beginning on January 1, 2009. We receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listing services supplied to us from Google. The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements, the depth of advertisements available from Google, and the ability of Google's system to display relevant ads in response to our end-user queries. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Google accounted for approximately 33.3% of our consolidated revenue. Excluding revenue from our MIVA Media business, which was sold in March 2009, Google accounted for approximately 85.7% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our agreement with Google contains broad termination rights. Google also competes with our MIVA Direct business. If (i) we fail to have websites and applications approved by Google; (ii) Google's performance deteriorates, (iii) we violate Google's guidelines, or (iv) Google exercises its termination rights, we likely will experience a significant decline in revenue and our business operations could be significantly harmed. If any of these circumstances were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider or otherwise replace the lost revenues. The success of MIVA Direct is dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our active consumer base. MIVA Direct operates a portfolio of consumer-oriented interactive products including toolbars, homepages, desktop and applications. MIVA Direct derives the majority of its revenue from advertisements directed towards consumers. The amount of revenue generated by MIVA Direct is dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our active consumer installed base. Factors that could negatively influence our ability to maintain and grow our active consumer base include, but are not limited to, government regulation, acceptance of our toolbar products by consumers, the availability of advertising to promote our toolbar products, third-party designation of our toolbar and/or other products as undesirable or malicious, user attrition, competition, and sufficiency of capital to purchase advertising. For example, advertising spend at MIVA Direct, which is used to promote and acquire consumers, was strategically reduced throughout 2008 to meet acquisition cost targets and to ensure cash balances were maintained and conserved. We believe this reduction will have a dampening effect on the level of MIVA Direct's revenue in 2009. If we are unable to maintain and grow our active consumer base, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents The business of MIVA Direct is dependent upon our ability to deliver qualified leads to Google, our primary paid listings provider. Our primary paid listings provider utilizes MIVA Direct to deliver high quality Internet traffic to its advertisers. We believe our primary paid listings provider will only use our services if we deliver high quality Internet traffic. If our primary paid listings provider is not satisfied with the quality of Internet traffic delivered from us it may take remedial action. We may not be successful in delivering high quality traffic to our primary paid listings provider, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. New technologies could limit the effectiveness of our products and services, which would harm our business. New technologies may be developed by others that can block the display of ads or sponsored listings or prevent Internet users from downloading our products. Since most of our net revenue is derived from fees paid to us by our advertising feed provider, ad-blocking or similar technology could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have recently sold a significant portion of our business and operate in an emerging and rapidly evolving market. We began operating our business in 1998 and since that time we have undergone significant changes: •we launched the Findwhat.com Network (which subsequently became MIVA Media US) in September 1999; •in 2004, we acquired several companies, including a U.S. performance-based, keyword-targeted advertising business (B & B Advertising, which subsequently became a part of MIVA Media); a provider of performance-based, keyword-targeted Internet advertising services in Europe (espotting, which subsequently became a part of MIVA Media); and a desktop software company (that is now MIVA Direct); •in March 2009, we sold our MIVA Media business, which accounted for 61.2% of our consolidated revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history upon which an investor can make an evaluation of the likelihood of our success. As of March 12, 2009, we operate only the MIVA Direct business. Moreover, we derive nearly all of our net revenue from online advertising, which is a rapidly evolving market. An investor should consider the likelihood of our future success to be speculative in light of our limited operating history, as well as the problems, limited resources, expenses, risks, and complications frequently encountered by similarly situated companies in emerging and changing markets, such as e-commerce. To address these risks, we must, among other things: •maintain and increase our user base; •implement and successfully execute our business and marketing strategy; •continue to develop and upgrade our technology; •continually update and improve our service offerings and features; •find and integrate strategic transactions; •respond to industry and competitive developments; and •attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. 9 Table of Contents We may not be successful in addressing these risks, particularly as some of these are largely outside of our control. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We have made and anticipate making additional significant investments in new initiatives related to current and future product and service offerings that may not meet our expectations in terms of the viability, success, or profitability of such initiatives. We have made and anticipate making significant investments in new initiatives related to current and proposed product and service offerings, such as our investments in MIVA Direct. All such new and proposed initiatives require the expenditure of significant time, money, personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives will be timely, viable, successful, and profitable or will enjoy the same margins as our historical business. An investor should consider the likelihood of our future success with respect to these and other initiatives to be speculative in light of our limited history in successfully developing, introducing, and commercially exploiting new initiatives of this nature, as well as the problems, limited resources, expenses, risks, and complications frequently encountered by similarly situated companies in emerging and changing markets, such as e-commerce, with respect to the development and introduction of initiatives of this nature. Any inability by us to successfully develop, introduce, or implement these or other products or services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have recently divested our MIVA Media Division pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement and we have certain ongoing obligations to the buyer. In March 2009, we sold our MIVA Media division pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, we made certain representations and warranties and covenants in favor of the buyer and we have certain indemnification obligations to the buyer. Because the transaction was structured as an asset purchase, we also retained potential liability to third parties for the pre-closing operation of the MIVA Media business. These obligations and retained liabilities could subject us to potential claims in the future, which could result in the diversion of management's time and attention and could cause us to incur expenditures defending ourselves against such claims or could cause us to have to make payments to the buyer or third parties. In addition, in connection with the MIVA Media Sale, we agreed to provide to the buyer and receive from the buyer certain transition services. Examples of services under the arrangement include finance, accounting, technology, office space, expense reimbursement and similar matters. If (i) the buyer of our MIVA Media division breaches its obligations under these agreements, (ii) we are unable to fulfill our obligations to provide services, or (iii) we are unable to obtain required consents to the transactions, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future implement restructuring programs, which may subject us to claims and liabilities. Over the past few years, we have implemented a number of restructuring programs to reduce our headcount, reduce expenses and streamline our operations. We may implement further restructurings in the future, and we anticipate restructuring our French subsidiary beginning in the second quarter of 2009. These restructurings may subject us to claims and liabilities from employees and third parties, which could result in us making payments to such persons and could materially adversely affect our financial condition. We face substantial and increasing competition in the market for Internet-based marketing services. We face substantial competition in every aspect of our business, and particularly from other companies that seek to connect people with information on the Internet and provide them with relevant 10 Table of Contents advertising and commerce-enabling services, either directly or through a network of partners. Some of our principal competitors include MSN, Google, Yahoo!, IAC/InteractiveCorp (Ask.com) and Conduit.com. Our principal competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, and other resources than we have. These competitors historically have developed and expanded their portfolios of products and services more rapidly than we have. In addition, these and other competitors may have or obtain certain intellectual property rights that may interfere with or prevent the use of one or more of our business models. These and other competitors can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by acquiring complementary companies or assets, investing aggressively in research and development, and competing more aggressively for consumers. We expect that these competitors will increasingly use their financial and technological resources to compete with us. Additionally, to the extent we pursue strategic transactions, we may compete with other companies with similar growth strategies, some of which may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competition for any such acquisition targets likely also will result in increased prices of acquisition targets and a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive. Our success depends on providing products and services that provide consumers with a high quality Internet experience. Our competitors are constantly developing innovative Internet products. As a result, we must continue to seek to enhance our technology and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that businesses and/or consumers will use. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: •enhance and improve the responsiveness and functionality of our Internet products and our other primary traffic services; •license, develop or acquire technologies useful in our business on a timely basis, to enhance our existing services and develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of the business; and •respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Because our markets are still developing and rapidly changing, we must allocate our resources based on our predictions as to the future development of the Internet and our markets. These predictions ultimately may not prove to be accurate. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technology and systems may become obsolete and we may not have the funds or technical know-how to upgrade our services, technology and systems. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose consumers, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future incur impairment charges that could materially adversely affect our earnings and our operating results. Our total assets as of December 31, 2008 include $5.0 million in tangible assets. We assess whether indicators of impairment are present and perform the necessary analysis to ensure the carrying value of our tangible assets are substantiated. If future operating performance at our MIVA Direct business does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, non-cash charges to operating results for impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of 11 Table of Contents tangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. During the fourth quarter of 2008, in connection with our annual impairment testing we performed a step 1 impairment test of our two reporting units, Searchfeed and Miva Direct, with remaining recorded indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill for potential impairment. As a result of this analysis, we determined that the estimated fair value of the reporting units exceeded their carrying values, which could result in potential impairment. We then performed an assessment of the long-lived assets of our Searchfeed and MIVA Direct divisions and determined these assets were impaired under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Asset ("SFAS 144")". Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded approximately $2.9 million in non-cash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of the remaining long-lived tangible and intangible assets to their estimated fair values. We then performed a step 2 impairment test to determine if the remaining carrying values of recorded goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, in these divisions was impaired under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," ("SFAS 142"). The step 2 impairment test resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $14.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, and other indefinite lived intangible assets to their implied fair value. As a result of these impairment charges, the carrying value of all of the Company's goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets was reduced to zero as of December 31, 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2007, as a result of continued operating losses related to our MIVA Media US business, we performed an impairment analysis to determine recoverability of the recorded long-lived assets of this division. As a result of this analysis, we determined that certain long-lived assets of our MIVA Media US division were impaired under the provisions of SFAS No. 144. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded approximately $4.7 million in non-cash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of certain long-lived tangible and intangible assets to their estimated fair value. In the second quarter of 2007, events occurred that caused us to reconsider and lower our operating projections for our MIVA Media Europe division, acquired in 2004, primarily as a result of its reduced revenue trend initially beginning in the middle to latter half of 2006 and continuing into, and throughout, 2007. As a result, we performed an impairment test to determine if the value of goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets of this division were recoverable under the provisions of SFAS 142 and SFAS 144, and it was determined that an impairment existed. Therefore, as provided under the provisions of these Statements we recorded a preliminary estimated non-cash impairment charge of $14.0 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill to its fair value as of June 30, 2007. During the third quarter of 2007, we finalized this impairment test of our long-lived assets and the second steps of this impairment analysis, which resulted in an additional impairment charge of $1.4 million related to the long-lived assets of our MIVA Media Europe division. We will continue to assess the potential of impairment for tangible assets and other long-lived assets in future periods in accordance with SFAS 144. Should our business prospects change, and our expectations for acquired business be further reduced, or other circumstances that affect our business dictate, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We cannot assure you that future impairments will not occur. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred in the future, we would be required to write off additional goodwill. Any future impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to grow or manage our growth, our business will be adversely affected. To succeed, we must grow. We may make additional acquisitions in the future as part of our growth initiatives. These may include acquisitions of international companies or other international operations. We have limited experience in acquiring and integrating companies, and we may also expand into new lines of business in which we have little or no experience. Additionally, we may fail to achieve anticipated synergies from such acquisitions. Accordingly, our growth strategy subjects us to a number of risks, including the following: •we may incur substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems in integrating acquired businesses, including integrating each company's accounting, management information, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management; •we may not be able to identify, acquire, or profitably manage any additional businesses; •with smaller acquired companies, we may need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company; •the acquired companies may adversely affect our consolidated operating results, particularly since some of the acquired companies may have a history of operating losses; •acquisitions may divert our management's attention from the operation of our businesses; •we may not be able to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; •there may be cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from our acquired companies into our organization; and •we may encounter unanticipated events, circumstances, or legal liabilities. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to return to our historical growth rates and operating margins in the future. In 2004, we grew rapidly through multiple acquisitions and a significant merger and these events assisted in achieving higher than normal growth rates. In March 2009, we divested a significant portion of our business through the sale of our MIVA Media division. We may not be able to return to the 2004 historical growth rates and our future growth rates may continue to decline as a result of various factors. Additionally, our growth rate could continue to decline into and throughout 2009, due to, among other things: •reduction in advertising spend at MIVA Direct throughout 2008, which we believe will have a dampening effect on the level of MIVA Direct's revenue in 2009; •operating in an environment of increased competition both domestically and internationally; •increased expenditures for certain aspects of our business as a percentage of our net revenues, which may include product development expenditures, sales, advertising and marketing expenses, and increased public company costs; and •increased expenditures as a result of our divested operations. 13 Table of Contents Certain members of our management team and many of our employees have recently joined us and must be integrated into our operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had 129 full-time employees. Our new employees include certain key managerial, technical, financial, marketing, and operations personnel, including our Chief Financial Officer who joined the company in December 2006 and was named Chief Financial Officer in March 2009. Some of our new employees may not yet have been fully integrated into our operations. Our failure to attract and fully integrate our new employees into our operations or to successfully manage and retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on third parties for certain software and services to operate our business. We depend on third-party software and services to operate our business. Although we believe that several alternative sources for this software are available, any failure to obtain and maintain the rights to use such software on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also are dependent on third parties to provide Internet services to allow us to connect to the Internet with sufficient capacity and bandwidth so that our business can function properly and our websites can handle current and anticipated traffic. We currently have contracts with certain telecommunications providers for these services. Any restrictions or interruption in our connection to the Internet, or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and our brand could be damaged if clients or prospective clients believe our system is unreliable. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. We exercise little control over these third party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced occasional system interruptions in the past and we cannot assure you that such interruptions will not occur again in the future. Our technical systems are vulnerable to interruption, security breaches, and damage, which could harm our business and damage our brands if our clients or prospective clients believe that our products are unreliable. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users, or "hackers," and similar events. Any such events could interrupt our services and severely damage our business. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our technical operations facilities could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or render us unable to provide services to our customers. In addition, we may be unable to provide services and websites due to a failure of the data communications capacity we require, as a result of human error, natural disaster, or other operational disruptions. The occurrence of any or all of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and damage our brands if clients or prospective clients believe that our products are unreliable. Our intellectual property rights may not be protectable or of significant value in the future. We depend upon confidentiality agreements with specific employees, consultants, and subcontractors to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. These measures may not afford us sufficient protection, and others may independently develop know-how and services similar to ours, otherwise avoid our confidentiality agreements, or produce patents and copyrights that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of the protection of certain intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The steps we take 14 Table of Contents to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our future intellectual property. Third parties may also infringe or misappropriate any copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary rights we may have. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights, which may result in the dilution of the brand identity of our services. Our business has historically been and may continue to be partially subject to seasonality, which may impact our quarterly growth rate. We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in the number of click-throughs to advertisements available to MIVA Direct. Historically, during the first and fourth quarters of each calendar year, we have realized more activity than the second and third quarters, due to increased overall Internet usage during the first and fourth quarters related to colder weather and holiday purchases. These seasonal fluctuations may continue in the future. We are subject to a patent settlement and license agreement from Yahoo! for certain portions of a divested business. We are subject to a patent settlement and license agreement from Yahoo! for certain portions of our MIVA Media business that were divested in March 2009. On August 15, 2005, we settled a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Overture Services ("Overture Services") and Yahoo!, Inc. (collectively with Overture Services, "Yahoo!") against us regarding U.S. Patent No. 6,269,361 and took a royalty bearing non-exclusive license from Yahoo! regarding certain patents. We divested our MIVA Media business in March 2009; however, we are still subject to the terms of and have continuing obligations, including for the payment of minimum royalty fees, under the settlement and license agreement, which requires minimum payments totaling $1,200,000 through August 2010. The settlement and license agreement contains terms and conditions that may be unacceptable to a third party and could negatively impact our ability to be sold or enter into a change of control transaction. We cannot predict our future capital needs and may not be able to secure additional financing. We have no material long-term agreements or short-term commitments for the funding of capital expenditures. We currently anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents of $6.7 million as of December 31, 2008, along with the proceeds of the MIVA Media Sale and cash inflows during 2009, will be sufficient to meet the anticipated liquidity needs for working capital and capital expenditures over the next 12 months. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors. The pace of expansion of our operations will affect our capital requirements. We may also have increased capital requirements in order to respond to competitive pressures. In addition, we may need additional capital to fund acquisitions of complementary products, technologies, or businesses. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties and actual results could vary materially as a result of the factors described in this report. As we require additional capital resources, we may seek to sell debt securities or additional equity securities, or obtain a bank line of credit. There can be no assurance that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts, or on terms, acceptable to us, if at all. 15 Table of Contents Our loan agreement with Bridge Bank imposes significant restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. On November 7, 2008, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Bridge Bank, N.A., which provides for a revolving credit facility of up to $10.0 million. The Loan Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions; •enter into certain acquisitions; •repurchase equity interests or subordinated indebtedness; •issue or sell equity interests of our subsidiaries; and •engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other transactions with entities other than subsidiaries and affiliates. In connection with the MIVA Media Sale, we entered into a Consent and Amendment to the Loan Agreement with Bridge Bank. The Amendment required us to repay from the MIVA Media Sale all outstanding advances plus any accrued interest in the amount of approximately $4.4 million. In addition, the Amendment suspended any further borrowings under the Loan Agreement until new terms and conditions for borrowing are agreed to between Bridge Bank and us. Our ability to comply with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, including any subsequent amendment, will be dependent upon our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate the borrowing base or any other loan covenants, and if they are renegotiated, comply with such restrictions and limitations, or that they will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, or engage in other business activities that would otherwise be in our interest. A breach of any of our covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or profitability targets under the Loan Agreement could result in a default under the Loan Agreement. In the event of any such default, Bridge Bank could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding under such Loan Agreement, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, Bridge Bank could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay the amount in full, that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness, or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure any such default. Virtually all of our debt is subject to variable interest rates; and therefore rising interest rates could negatively impact our business. Borrowings under our Loan Agreement bear interest at a variable rate. In addition, we may incur other variable rate indebtedness in the future. Carrying indebtedness subject to variable interest rates makes us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Increases in interest rates on this indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to service our debt as well as our ability to grow the business. Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flows necessary to permit us to meet our payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to incur additional 16 Table of Contents indebtedness to meet these payment obligations and there is no assurance that we would be able to secure such financing on acceptable terms or at all, especially in light of the current economic, credit and capital markets environment. Should we incur additional debt, among other things, such increased indebtedness could: •adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products, and make investments and capital expenditures; •adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions, and other sources; and •create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligations, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and business. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous international jurisdictions. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related tax litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of tax audits or tax litigation, our income tax provision, net loss, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. While there are currently relatively few laws or regulations directly applicable to Internet access, commerce, or commercial search activity, there is increasing awareness and concern regarding some uses of the Internet and other online services, leading federal, state, local, and international governments to consider adopting civil and criminal laws and regulations, amending existing laws and regulations, conducting investigations, or commencing litigation with respect to the Internet and other online services covering issues such as: •user privacy; •trespass; •defamation; •database and data protection; •limitations on the distribution of materials considered harmful to children; •liability for misinformation provided over the web; •user protection, pricing, taxation, and advertising restrictions (including, for example, limitation on the advertising on Internet gambling websites or of certain products); •delivery of contextual advertisements via connected desktop software; •intellectual property ownership and infringement, including liability for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials infringing copyrights or other rights; •distribution, characteristics, and quality of products and services; and •other consumer protection laws. 17 Table of Contents Legislation has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress and some state legislatures that is designed to regulate spyware, which does not have a precise definition, but often defined as software installed on consumers' computers without their informed consent and designed to gather and, in some cases, disseminate information about those consumers, including personally identifiable information. We do not rely on spyware for any purpose and it is not part of our product offerings, but the definition of spyware or proposed legislation relating to spyware may be broadly defined or interpreted to include legitimate ad-serving software, including toolbar offerings and other downloadable software currently provided by our MIVA Direct division. Currently, legislation has focused on providing Internet users with notification of and the ability to consent or decline the installation of such software, but there can be no guarantee that future legislation will not provide more burdensome standards by which software can be downloaded onto consumers' computers. Currently all downloadable software that we distribute requires an express consent of the consumer and provides consumers with an easy mechanism to delete the software once downloaded. However, if future legislation is adopted which makes the consent, notice or uninstall procedures more onerous, we may have to develop new technology or methods to provide our services or discontinue those services in some jurisdictions or altogether. There is no guarantee we will be able to develop this new technology at all or in a timely fashion or on commercially reasonable terms. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations, application of existing laws to the Internet generally or our industry, or any governmental investigation or litigation related to the Internet generally, our industry, or our services may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn: •decrease the demand for our services; •increase our cost of doing business; •preclude us from developing additional products or services; •result in adverse publicity to us; and •subject us to fines, litigation, or criminal penalties, enjoin us from conducting our business or providing any of our services, otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or result in a substantial decline in the market price of our common stock. The regulatory environment with respect to online marketing practices is also evolving. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has increasingly focused on issues affecting online marketing, particularly online privacy and security issues. One of the key areas of focus for the FTC is the difference between spyware and ad-serving software, such as our downloadable toolbar applications. New legislation, which could be proposed or enacted at any time in the future, new regulations or changes in the regulatory climate, or the expansion, enforcement or interpretation of existing laws could prevent us from offering some or all of our services or expose us to additional costs and expenses requiring substantial changes to our business or otherwise substantially harm our business. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that multiple state, federal, or international jurisdictions might inconsistently regulate Internet activities, which would increase our costs of compliance and the risk of violating the laws of a particular jurisdiction, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may face third party intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in the loss of significant rights. Our current and future business activities may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, and third parties may assert infringement claims against us, including claims alleging, among other things, copyright, trademark, or patent infringement. We are aware of allegations from time to time concerning these types of claims and in particular in respect of copyright and trademark infringement claims. While we believe 18 Table of Contents that we have defenses to these types of claims under appropriate trademark legislation, we may not prevail in our defenses to any intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, we may not be adequately insured for any judgments awarded in connection with any litigation. Any such claims and resulting litigation could subject us from time to time to significant liability for damages, or result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we were to prevail, these claims could be time-consuming, expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of our management's time and attention. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our stock price may result in our failure to maintain NASDAQ Marketplace Rules related to minimum stock price requirements, which could result in NASDAQ delisting our common stock. NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require us to have a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. In the event that our common stock closing bid price falls below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days we would likely receive notice from NASDAQ that we are not in compliance with Marketplace Rules, which could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market if we were unable to maintain the requisite minimum stock price during the subsequent probationary period. On October 16, 2008 we received notice from NASDAQ immediately suspending the enforcement of the rules requiring the minimum $1.00 closing bid price. In addition, NASDAQ also suspended the enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum market value of publicly held shares. The suspension of the minimum bid price and market value will remain in effect through April 30, 2009 at which time these rules are expected to be reinstated unless they are further extended. Recently our stock price has traded below $1.00 and even though we received a temporary reprieve from this notice, if our stock continues to trade below $1.00 once the rules are reinstated we would likely receive notice from NASDAQ that ultimately could lead to the delisting of our stock. In the event that we were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock would become significantly less liquid, which would likely adversely affect its value. Although our common stock would likely be traded over-the-counter or on pink sheets, these types of listings involve more risk and trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future experience significant volatility as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Each of the risk factors listed in this Part I, Item 1A—Risk Factors, and the following factors, may affect the market price for our common stock: •our quarterly results and ability to meet analysts' and our own published expectations; •our ability to continue to attract and retain users and paid listings providers; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure; •patents issued or not issued to us or our competitors; •announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances, mergers, acquisitions, dispositions, or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; •commencement or threat of litigation or new legislation or regulation that adversely affects our business; •general economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to the Internet and Internet advertising; 19 Table of Contents •our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •geopolitical events such as war, threat of war, or terrorist actions; •sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants; and •potential of industry consolidation in our sector. Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. In addition, advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Also, online user traffic tends to be seasonal. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that particularly have affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology and Internet companies. Frequently, these price and volume fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities such as we have recently experienced, securities class action litigation is often instituted against such a company, as we have recently had a number of such suits instituted against us. See "We have had a number of purported class action lawsuits filed against us and certain of our officers and directors alleging violations of securities laws" below. This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant dilution will occur if outstanding options are exercised or restricted stock unit grants vest. As of December 31, 2008, we had stock options outstanding to purchase a total of approximately 1.6 million shares at an average weighted price of $8.94 per share under our stock incentive plans. Also, as of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 2.3 million restricted stock units outstanding including approximately 0.3 million in restricted stock units that would vest upon the Company's common stock reaching, and closing, at share prices exceeding $4.00 per share for ten consecutive trading days. Additionally, approximately 0.2 million shares would vest under similar vesting criteria but with stock prices of $8.00, $10.00 and $12.00, respectively. The remaining approximate 1.8 million restricted stock units will vest predominately over the next three years in equal increments. Any such exercise of outstanding stock options or vesting of restricted stock units will dilute our shareholders' ownership interest. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue additional shares of stock, which could impede a change of control that is beneficial to our stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to 200 million shares of common stock that may be issued by our board of directors for such consideration as they may consider sufficient without seeking stockholder approval, subject to stock exchange rules and regulations. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our board of directors. These designations may be made without stockholder approval. The designation and issuance of preferred stock in the future could create additional securities that have dividend and liquidation preferences prior in right to the outstanding shares of common stock. These provisions could be used by our board to impede a non-negotiated change in control, even though such a transaction may be beneficial to holders of our securities, and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares at a 20 Table of Contents premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The potential inability of our shareholders to obtain a control premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. We have had a number of purported class action lawsuits filed against us and certain of our officers and directors alleging violations of securities laws. Beginning on May 6, 2005, five putative securities fraud class action lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The complaints allege that we and the individual defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act") and that the individual defendants also violated Section 20(a) of the Act as "control persons" of MIVA. Plaintiffs purport to bring these claims on behalf of a class of our investors who purchased our stock between September 3, 2003 and May 4, 2005. Plaintiffs allege generally that, during the putative class period, we made misleading statements and omitted material information regarding (1) the goodwill associated with a recent acquisition, (2) certain material weaknesses in our internal controls, and (3) the Internet traffic generated by and business relationships with certain distribution partners. Plaintiffs assert that we and the individual defendants made these misstatements and omissions in order to keep our stock price high to allow certain individual defendants to sell stock at an artificially inflated price. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. If it is determined that we or our officers or directors have engaged in the types of activities alleged by these plaintiffs, we and our officers and directors could be subject to damages and may be subject to further prosecution. Regardless of the outcome, these litigations could have a material adverse impact on us because of harm to our and our officers' and directors' reputations, defense costs, diversion of management's attention and resources, and other factors. A putative derivative action has been filed against certain of our officers and directors, purportedly on behalf of the Company. On July 25, 2005, a shareholder, Bruce Verduyn, filed a putative derivative action purportedly on behalf of us in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, against certain of our directors and officers. This action is based on substantially the same facts alleged in the securities class action litigation described above. The complaint is seeking to recover damages in an unspecified amount. If it is determined that our officers or directors have engaged in the types of activities alleged in the putative derivative action, our officers and directors could be subject to damages and may be subject to further prosecution. We have agreed to indemnify our officers and directors in connection with the defense of this action. Accordingly, regardless of the outcome, this litigation could have a material adverse impact on us because of harm to our reputation, defense costs, diversion of management's attention and resources, and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 