D. Risk Factors In addition to the other factors identified in this Report on Form 20-F, the following risk factors could materially and adversely affect the Company’s future operating results, and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in the Company’s forward looking statements relating to its business. The demand for Chip and Pin electronic point-of-sale systems is expected to decline in fiscal 2006 after the implementation date for the EMV standard of January 1, 2005. Our product revenue growth during fiscal 2005, particularly for our Smart 5000 Chip and Pin device, was primarily driven by an increase in demand for Chip and Pin solutions in the UK. This demand resulted from the introduction of the new EMV standard which mandated that from January 1, 2005 there is a liability shift for fraudulent card based transactions to retailers who have not adopted an EMV compliant point-of-sale system such as Trintech’s Smart 5000. It is generally accepted that a substantial number of retailers have not migrated to EMV compliant point-of-sale systems and there can be no assurance that such retailers will migrate as they may decide that the investment outweighs any savings they may make. There can be no assurance that retailers will continue to migrate to Chip and Pin solutions and that a market for Chip and Pin solutions will develop outside the UK. A slowdown in the migration of retailers to Chip and Pin compliant solutions or the failure of markets outside the UK to develop will have a material impact on the Company’s revenues, gross margins and operating results. The Company’s reliance on a sole third party to manufacture the Company’s electronic PoS system products involves risks, including, in particular, reduced control over the manufacturing process and product quality. The Company’s electronic PoS system products are currently manufactured by Plexus Corp. (UK) Limited (“Plexus”). Plexus purchases many of its products and components from one or a limited number of suppliers. The Company’s reliance on a single outsourced manufacturer, which in turn is reliant on a limited number of component suppliers, involves significant risks, including: • Reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and cost 6 • The potential lack of adequate manufacturing capacity • The potential misappropriation of the Company’s intellectual property We must make binding forecasts as much as three months in advance of expected delivery dates. If product sales do not meet these forecasts, the Company’s cashflow would be adversely impacted, and the risk that the Company’s inventory could become obsolete would increase. If Plexus ceases manufacturing the Company’s electronic PoS system products or increases its prices, we may not be able to rapidly obtain alternative capacity at a comparable price. Any delay in delivery of products to the Company’s customers or any increase in manufacturing costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. We have in the past received products that contained defects from the Company’s manufacturers. Because we warrant the quality of the Company’s electronic PoS system products to the Company’s customers, we have been required to repair or replace defective products at the Company’s own expense. This expense has in the past exceeded, and may in the future exceed, the amounts reimbursed to us by the manufacturers. Any repetition of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business and results of operations. New versions and releases of the Company’s products may contain errors or defects. The Company’s software products and PoS devices are complex and, accordingly, may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. This may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of the Company’s products. We have in the past discovered software errors in the Company’s new releases and new products after their introduction. We have experienced delays in release, lost revenues and customer frustration during the period required to correct these errors. We may in the future discover errors and additional scalability limitations in new releases or new products after the commencement of commercial shipments or be required to compensate customers for such limitations or errors, as a result of which the Company’s business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, our business and reputation may be harmed. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We 7 have formed an internal control steering committee, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed project work plan to assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. Nonetheless, our independent auditors may be unable to issue unqualified attestation reports on management’s assessment on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The Company’s business is subject to currency fluctuations that can adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Due to the Company’s multinational operations, the Company’s business is subject to fluctuations based upon changes in the exchange rates between the currencies in which we collect revenues or pay expenses and the dollar. In particular, the value of the U.S. dollar to the euro and the pound impacts the Company’s operating results. The Company’s expenses are not necessarily incurred in the currency in which revenue is generated, and, as a result, we are required from time to time to convert currencies to meet the Company’s obligations. These currency conversions are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and changes to the value of the euro and the pound relative to other currencies could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The increase in value of the euro relative to other currencies has had a negative impact on the Company’s margins. With the on-going strength of the euro and pound against the U.S dollar, the Company’s margins could be negatively impacted through at least the end of July 2005. In addition, the Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in euro and translated to U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. As a result, even when foreign currency expenses substantially offset revenues in the same currency, the Company’s net income may be diminished, or the Company’s net profit decreased, when reported in U.S. dollars in the Company’s financial statements. Some of the Company’s products, particularly in the unattended payment market, are relatively new to market and in the early stages of adoption, and continued adoption of the Company’s products is not assured. Some of the Company’s products, particularly in the unattended payment market, are still in early stages of commercialization. Any unanticipated performance problems or bugs that we have not been able to detect could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from the Company’s other development efforts, negative publicity regarding us and the Company’s products, harm to the Company’s customer relationships and exposure to potential liability claims. In addition, if our products do not enjoy wide commercial success and product acceptance and adoption is sluggish, the Company’s long-term business strategy will be adversely affected. We depend on sales of the Company’s electronic point-of-sale systems for payment card transactions to customers located in Europe for a significant portion of the Company’s total annual revenues. A significant portion of the Company’s total revenue historically has been derived from the sale of the Company’s electronic payment card point-of-sale system products. We have historically marketed the Company’s electronic PoS system products solely in Europe, and particularly in Germany. For fiscal 2005, the Company’s customers in the UK and Germany accounted for over 90% of the Company’s electronic PoS system product revenues. We intend to continue to focus some of the Company’s marketing efforts for the Company’s electronic PoS system products in Europe. As a result, the Company’s future results of operations will depend on continued market demand for, and acceptance of, these products in Europe in general. Any material reduction in demand for the Company’s electronic PoS system products would adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Average selling prices for electronic PoS system products may continue to decline, adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations, particularly the Company’s revenue and operating and net income. The market for electronic PoS system products is characterized by increasing price competition, which historically has caused the average selling prices of the Company’s electronic PoS systems to decrease over the life of each product. To offset declines in the average selling prices of the Company’s electronic PoS system products, we will need to continue to reduce the cost of these products by implementing cost reduction design changes, obtaining cost reductions as and if volumes increase and successfully managing manufacturing and subcontracting relationships. We do not operate our own manufacturing facilities, and, as a result, we may not be able to reduce the Company’s costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own manufacturing facilities. If we do not design and introduce lower cost versions of the Company’s electronic PoS system products in a timely manner or successfully manage our manufacturing relationships, margins on the Company’s electronic PoS system products will decrease. A decrease in margins or an accelerated decrease in average selling prices could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to adequately integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses. Over the past several years, we evaluated opportunities to acquire additional product offerings, complementary technologies and businesses and made six such acquisitions. The acquisitions we have made have resulted in amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and diversion of the Company’s management’s attention. As a result of these acquisitions, the Company’s operating expenses have increased. Furthermore, an economic slowdown may impact the revenues from the acquired businesses and may not be sufficient to support the costs associated with those businesses without adversely affecting the Company’s operating margins. We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire additional product offerings, complementary technologies and businesses. For example, on November 1, 2003, we acquired DataFlow Services for a total consideration of approximately US$3.9 million subject to final adjustment relating to performance related contingent consideration. We may be unable to locate further attractive opportunities or acquire any that we locate on attractive terms. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the expenditure of a significant portion of the Company’s available cash, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Product and technology acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and products, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Furthermore, the revenues from the acquired businesses may not be sufficient to support the costs associated with those businesses, without adversely affecting the Company’s operating margins in the future. We may be unable to integrate successfully any operations, personnel or products that have been acquired or that might be acquired in the future and the Company’s failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict because they can fluctuate significantly. This limits your ability to evaluate the Company’s historical financial results and increases the likelihood that the Company’s results will fall below market analysts’ expectations, which could cause the price of the Company’s ADSs to drop rapidly and severely. We have experienced significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in operating results and cash flows and we expect that these fluctuations will continue and could intensify in future periods. Quarterly and annual fluctuations have been, and may in the future be, caused by factors which include: • the size and timing of orders • currency fluctuations 9 • product mix • the rate of acceptance of new products, product enhancements and technologies • purchasing and payment patterns of the Company’s customers • the Company’s pricing policies and those of the Company’s competitors • ability to control costs • deferral of customer orders • customer buying cycles and changes in these buying cycles • general condition of market or markets served by the Company’s customers • general economic factors, including economic slowdown or recession • product or service quality problems • impact of declines in net revenue in a particular quarter as compared to relatively fixed nature of the Company’s expenses in the short term • impairment charges arising from recent acquisitions or future acquisitions • economic conditions which may affect the Company’s customers and potential customers’ budgets for IT expenditure • timing of product implementations, which are highly dependent on customers’ resources and discretion • timing and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by either the Company or the Company’s competitors In addition, the Company’s revenue is difficult to predict for several reasons. These reasons include: • we have generally recognized a substantial portion of the Company’s revenue in the last month of each quarter • the market for the Company’s software products is rapidly changing and competitive • the sales cycle for the Company’s products is typically 6 to 12 months and varies substantially from customer to customer • service contracts in our transaction reconciliation business can be cancelled with 30 days notice As a result of the factors listed above, among others, we believe that the Company’s quarterly revenue, expenses and operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future. As a result, if revenue in any quarter falls below expectations, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of revenue, and the Company’s business and operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. In addition, it is likely that in some future quarters the Company’s results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could have a severe adverse effect on the trading price of the Company’s ADSs. We also believe that period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that, as a result, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of the Company’s future performance. To be successful, we will need to effectively respond to future changes in the rapidly developing markets in which we sell the Company’s software products and services. The markets for the Company’s electronic payment software and transaction reconciliation software and services are rapidly evolving and changing. The market is influenced by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and preferences and frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies. The Company’s ability to enhance existing products and to design, 10 develop, introduce and support new software products on a cost effective and timely basis that meet changing market needs and respond to technological developments is critical to the Company’s future success. In addition, these products will need to support industry standards and interoperate with a variety of third parties’ products, including those of the Company’s competitors. We may be unable to develop interoperable products, and widespread adoption of a proprietary or closed electronic payment standard could preclude us from effectively doing so. Also, the number of businesses and cardholders engaged in electronic commerce may not grow or could decrease, reducing the potential market for the Company’s electronic commerce products. In addition, if the Company fails to effectively respond to future changes in the rapidly developing markets in which it operates, or if customers choose not to use our product, then the Company’s business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are, from time to time, subject to legal proceedings and adverse determinations in these proceedings could harm the Company’s business. We are, from time to time, involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings, which arise in the ordinary course of business. Pending and future litigation involving the Company’s business, whether as plaintiff or defendant, regardless of the outcome, may result in substantial costs and expenses to the Company’s business and significant diversion of effort by the Company’s technical and management personnel. In addition, litigation, either instituted by or against the Company’s business, may be necessary to resolve issues that may arise from time to time in the future. An adverse resolution of these matters could materially adversely impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Cost-reduction efforts may adversely impact the Company’s productivity and service levels and our ability to develop new products and respond to market changes. During fiscal year 2002, we instituted various cost-control measures affecting various aspects of the Company’s business operations. We had a reduction in the Company’s workforce of approximately 18% in fiscal 2002, approximately 30% in fiscal 2003, approximately 17% in fiscal 2004 and approximately 5% in fiscal 2005 excluding the acquisition of DataFlow Services. The headcount decreased by 7% and 6% in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 respectively, including DataFlow Services. As a result of involuntary employee terminations, employee morale and productivity has been negatively impacted. If we are not successful in increasing our revenues, we may in the future be required to take additional cost-saving actions to reduce the Company’s losses and to conserve cash. The failure to achieve such future cost savings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The actions taken to date, or that may be taken in the future, may have a similar or greater adverse impact on the Company’s employees’ morale and productivity. We could experience voluntary terminations by key technical and sales employees and, as a result, the future competitiveness of the Company’s products and business, and the future results of the Company’s operations may be materially negatively impacted and we may be unable to react to market changes in a timely fashion. The Company’s stock has experienced and may continue to undergo extreme market price and volume fluctuations. Stock markets in general, and the Nasdaq Stock Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, especially in recent years. Broad market fluctuations of this type may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s ADSs. The stock prices for many companies in the technology sector have experienced wide fluctuations that often have been unrelated to their operating performance. The market price of the Company’s stock has experienced, and may continue to undergo, extreme fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • general and industry-specific business, economic and market conditions • actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results, including as a result of any impairment of goodwill related to the Company’s past acquisitions 11 • changes in or the Company’s failure to meet analysts’ or investors’ estimates or expectations • public announcements concerning us, including announcements of litigation, loss of major customers, reduction or delay in orders by major customers or errors or defects in the Company’s products • introductions of new products or services, technological innovations or announcements of significant contracts by us or the Company’s competitors • acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by us or the Company’s competitors • adverse developments in patent or other proprietary rights We historically derived a significant amount of the Company’s revenues from a limited number of customers. A significant percentage of the Company’s revenue historically has been derived from a limited number of the Company’s customers, primarily customers for the Company’s point-of-sale products. Approximately 15% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2005, was attributable to the Company’s three largest customers in the quarter. In fiscal 2005, 12% of total revenue was attributable to the Company’s three largest customers in fiscal 2005. UK customers accounted for approximately 50% of the Company’s top ten customers largely due to the Chip and Pin migration in fiscal 2005. Historically German customers for the Company’s point-of-sale products were primarily the Company’s largest customers. As a result of the German economic slowdown, the Company’s product revenue in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 was materially adversely impacted by a reduction in sales to the Company’s three largest customers, all of whom were German and who, in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2002 accounted for 26% of total revenue. The future loss of any major customer, or any reduction or delay in orders by any major customer, could have a similar material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s success depends on the Company’s ability to manage and expand the Company’s software direct sales force. We have sold the Company’s software products almost exclusively through the Company’s direct sales force. The Company’s future revenue growth will depend in large part on the Company’s ability to recruit, train and manage additional software sales personnel worldwide and generate increased sales productivity from the Company’s existing sales force. We have experienced and continue to experience difficulty in recruiting qualified software sales personnel with relevant experience, particularly in the United States, and the market for these personnel is highly competitive. We may not be able to successfully expand the Company’s software direct sales force, any expansion of the sales force may not result in increased revenue and we may fail to increase productivity from the Company’s existing sales force. The Company’s business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if we fail to successfully expand the Company’s software direct sales force or if we fail to increase productivity from the Company’s existing software sales force. We have incurred losses during the Company’s operating history. While we have been profitable for fiscal 2005, we may not be able to maintain profitability. We incurred net losses of US$3.2 million in fiscal year 2004, US$44.8 million in fiscal year 2003, US$100.0 million in fiscal year 2002 and US$32.6 million in fiscal year 2001. We may, in the future, incur losses on both a quarterly and annual basis. Moreover, we expect to continue to incur significant costs of services and substantial operating expenses. Therefore, we will need to increase the Company’s revenues to maintain quarterly profitability and a positive cash flow. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. The Company’s historical declining cash balance and low stock price may affect the Company’s potential and current customers’ and partners’ perception of the Company’s viability, which in turn could affect the Company’s ability to close sales and partnership transactions. Notwithstanding the fact that we have a substantial 12 cash balance and our cash balance has increased in fiscal 2005, concerns about the Company’s perceived financial viability were a factor in multiple potential and actual customer transactions and partner relationships during fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005. We attribute these concerns primarily to the following: we are not yet consistently profitable on a full fiscal year basis and thus must use the Company’s cash balance (offset by revenues) to fund the Company’s operations and acquisition related cash requirements; the Company’s stock price experienced a dramatic decline from 2000 to 2002; the Company’s stock price has been, and continues to be, volatile; and some of the Company’s competitors are better funded, more established, or significantly larger than we are. We will continue to use the Company’s cash balance (offset by revenues) to fund the Company’s operations until we sustain profitability on a full fiscal year basis (which may not occur). We expect these concerns about the Company’s ability to generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability to continue throughout at least the end of fiscal 2006. Some may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could result in costly litigation or require us to reengineer or cease sales of the Company’s products. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future claim that the Company’s current or future products infringe their proprietary rights. For example, in August 2004 a complaint was filed by Verve in the Northern District of California alleging that we, along with six other parties, had breached Verve’s intellectual property rights in relation to point of sale products. Verve sought unspecified damages. Whilst this claim was dismissed, there can be no assurance that other parties will not make claims in the future. Any infringement claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation or require us to pay damages, reengineer or cease sales of the Company’s products, delay product installments or develop non-infringing intellectual property, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Infringement claims could also require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Increased competition may result in decreased demand for the Company’s products and services, which may result in reduced revenues and gross margins and loss of market share. The market for electronic payment software, electronic PoS systems and transaction reconciliation solutions, is intensely competitive and we expect competition to continue to increase. The Company’s competitors include Dione, VeriFone, Ingenico, Hypercom and Thales/Krone for the Company’s electronic PoS system products, and Transaction System Architects, Checkfree Valuelink, CardTech Limited, Accurate Software and Chesapeake System Solutions for the Company’s software products. Some competitors in the Company’s market have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, greater brand recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. In addition, the companies with whom we have strategic relationships could develop products or services which compete with the Company’s products or services. Furthermore, several of the customers who currently use the Company’s products or the public companies with whom we have entered into strategic relationships to use and market the Company’s products may develop competing products. Growing competition may result in reduced revenues and gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships to expand their product offerings and to offer more comprehensive solutions. We also expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the market for electronic payment or transaction reconciliation solutions. We face risks associated with the Company’s international operations that could harm the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Historically, a significant percentage of the Company’s revenues has been generated by the Company’s international operations, and the Company’s future growth rates and success are in part dependent on continued growth and success in international markets. We expect this trend to continue. 13 As is the case with most international operations, the success and profitability of the Company’s international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that include, in addition to the risks the Company’s business as a whole faces, the following: • Difficulties in travel due to war, terrorism or health warnings, such as SARS, preventing free movement of our employees to existing and potential customer sites • differing regulatory and industry standards and certification requirements • the complexities of foreign tax jurisdictions • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries • currency exchange rate fluctuations • import or export licensing requirements We depend on a few key personnel to manage and operate us. The Company’s success is largely dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Following headcount reductions in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, the Company has reduced the number of executives and is more dependent for its future success on the remaining executives. The loss of certain members of the Company’s senior management, including the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. Following headcount reductions in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, the Company’s success is also dependent on some remaining key employees who are skilled in payment, funds management, transaction reconciliation, exception and risk management, Internet and other technologies. The loss of these key individuals could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. If we are unable to retain and attract highly skilled personnel with experience in the electronic payment, banking and retail industries, we may be unable to grow the Company’s business. We are dependent upon the ability to attract and hire when necessary as well as train and retain those highly skilled technical, sales and marketing, software engineers, support personnel and other highly skilled personnel with knowledge in payment, transaction reconciliation, payment reconciliation, exception and risk management, Internet and other technologies we currently employ. Competition for experienced and qualified personnel is intense. As a result we may experience increased compensation costs that may not be offset through either improved productivity or higher sales prices. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in retaining existing personnel or in attracting and recruiting experienced and qualified personnel. Based on the Company’s experience, it takes an average of nine months for a salesperson to become fully productive. We may not be successful in increasing the productivity of the Company’s sales personnel, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The standards for electronic commerce payment transactions that we support may not achieve broad market acceptance or market acceptance may be slower than anticipated. An important aspect of the Company’s business strategy is to continue to develop software products that support approved security standards for payment card transactions over the Internet. In the period from 1996 to 2000, Trintech invested significantly in providing support for the SET standard in its products, but this standard has not gained critical mass for adoption. Trintech continues to support the SSL standard that is commonly in use in the payments industry. The emergence of the new 3-D Secure protocol is an important new development, which is approved by Visa in its Verified by Visa initiative and by MasterCard in its SecureCode initiative. Trintech is providing 14 support for the 3-D Secure protocol in its financial transaction processor acquiring products, and may do so in other products where market opportunities are identified. However, the rate of adoption of the 3-D Secure standard—and its optional extensions for chip, mobile commerce and voice messaging—is unknown. Future sales of the Company’s payment products may be adversely affected if these standards do not achieve broad market acceptance. In addition, the Company’s electronic PoS system products support the DES, Triple DES and RSA Security public key security algorithms to meet the security standards required by the Company’s customers. If the Company’s customers’ security standard requirements were to change unexpectedly, this could adversely affect the Company’s prospects and results of operations. The Company’s growth may be limited if we fail to build an indirect sales channel. Indirect sales channels accounted for approximately 4% of the Company’s total revenue in fiscal 2003, 5% of the Company’s total revenue in fiscal 2004 and 3% of the Company’s total revenue in fiscal 2005. We have established relationships with a limited number of resellers and systems integrators and consultants. Some of these are new, early-stage relationships and, as such, are generally untested and many historical relationships have been unsuccessful due to the economic downturn, particularly those channels focused on the market for electronic payments for internet payment transactions. The Company’s existing indirect channels will have to generate significant revenue moving forward, and we will need to establish additional indirect channels to be successful. We may be unable to protect the Company’s proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of the Company’s technology may result in development of products which compete with the Company’s products. The Company’s success depends in part on the Company’s ability to protect the Company’s rights in the Company’s electronic payment and PoS system technology. We rely upon a combination of patents, contractual rights, trade secrets, copyright laws and trademarks to establish and protect these rights. We also seek to avoid disclosure of the Company’s trade secrets through a number of other means, including entering into confidentiality agreements with the Company’s employees, consultants and third parties to seek to limit and protect the distribution of the Company’s proprietary information regarding this technology. However, we cannot assure you that any of the Company’s proprietary rights with respect to the Company’s products will be effective, particularly products acquired through acquisition. Unauthorized parties may copy aspects of the Company’s products and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Other parties may breach confidentiality agreements and other protective contracts we have executed. We may not become aware of a breach. However, should a breach occur, we may not have adequate remedies to protect the Company’s rights in the Company’s electronic payment and PoS system technology. The Company’s industry and the Company’s customers’ industry are subject to government regulations that could limit the Company’s ability to market the Company’s products. The Company’s current and prospective customers include non-U.S. and state and federally chartered banks and savings and loan associations. These customers, as well as customers in other industries that we plan to target in the future, operate in markets that are subject to extensive and complex regulation. While we are not directly subject to this regulation, the Company’s products and services must be designed to work within the extensive and evolving regulatory constraints under which the Company’s customers operate. If the Company’s products fail to comply with regulations applicable to the Company’s customers, or if we cannot timely and cost-effectively respond to changes in the regulatory environments of each of the Company’s customers, the Company’s product sales could be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects and results of operations. Exports of software products utilizing encryption technology are generally restricted by the U.S., Irish, German and various other foreign governments. The Company’s inability to obtain and maintain required approvals under these regulations could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell the Company’s products. 15 Also, U.S., Irish, German or other foreign legislation or regulations may further limit levels of encryption or authentication technology that may be sold or exported. Any export restrictions of this sort, new legislation or regulations, or increased costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and prospects. The Company’s electronic PoS system products must comply with standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries, as well as with recommendations of quasi-regulatory authorities and standards-setting committees. Failure to comply with these standards and recommendations could limit the Company’s ability to sell these products. We rely on strategic relationships that may not continue in the future. We have developed strategic relationships with larger public companies. Historically, we have relied in part on these relationships to co-market the Company’s products and generate leads for the Company’s direct sales force, particularly in the market for electronic payment solutions for Internet payment transactions. However, these relationships are not exclusive, and the third party generally is not obligated to market the Company’s products or provide leads. We will need to establish additional strategic relationships to be successful. The rights of shareholders in Irish corporations may be more limited than the rights of shareholders in United States and German corporations. The rights of holders of ordinary shares and, therefore, some of the rights of ADS holders, are governed by Irish law and the laws of the European Union. As a result, the rights of the Company’s shareholders differ from, and may be more limited than, the rights of shareholders in typical United States or German corporations. In particular, Irish law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders of Irish corporations may bring derivative actions. The Company’s two largest shareholders have the ability to significantly influence or control corporate actions, which limits the ability of the holders of the Company’s ADSs to influence or control corporate actions. This concentration of ownership also can reduce the market price of the Company’s ADSs. The Company’s two largest shareholders have the ability to significantly influence the election of directors and the outcome of all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, which in turn could reduce the market price of the Company’s ADSs. The Company’s corporate tax rate may increase, which could adversely impact the Company’s cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have operations in the Republic of Ireland and may generate a significant portion of the Company’s future taxable income there. Currently, some of the Company’s Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. or German tax rates. If the Company’s Irish subsidiaries were no longer to qualify for these lower tax rates or if the applicable tax laws were rescinded or changed, the Company’s operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if German, U.S. and U.K. or other foreign tax authorities were to change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which the Company’s subsidiaries’ profits are currently recognized, or if the Company’s ability to offset historical losses against future profits, if they occur, was reduced, the Company’s taxes could increase, and the Company’s business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 16 The Irish takeover rules, the Company’s articles of association and Irish law may make an acquisition of us more difficult, which could affect the trading price of the Company’s ADSs. The provisions of the Irish takeover rules, as well as provisions of the Company’s articles of association and Irish law, could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us, which in turn could reduce the market price of the Company’s ADSs. In addition, the rights of the Company’s shareholders under the takeover rules or Irish law could differ from the rights of shareholders under the United States federal and state laws governing tender offers and takeovers. We could be subject to potential product liability claims and third party liability claims related to products and services. The Company’s electronic payment software products are used for the processing of payment card transactions. Any errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to the Company’s customers. A product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time consuming and costly and could seriously harm the Company’s business. Although the Company’s customer license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit the Company’s exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. The law relating to the liability of providers of listings of products and services sold over the Internet for errors, defects or other performance problems with respect to those products and services is currently unsettled. Any claims or litigation could still require expenditures in terms of management time and other resources to defend ourselves. Liability of this sort could require us to implement measures to reduce the Company’s exposure to this liability, which may require us, among other things, to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain product or service offerings. In the future we may need to raise additional capital in order to remain competitive in the market for electronic payment solutions and transaction reconciliation software. This capital may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that the Company’s existing cash and cash equivalents and the Company’s anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet the Company’s working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next year. After that, we may need to raise additional funds and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance the Company’s products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, grow the Company’s business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could seriously harm the Company’s business. We depend on increasing use of the Internet and on the growth of electronic business. If the use of the Internet and electronic business do not grow as anticipated, the Company’s business may be materially adversely impacted. The Company’s business in part depends on the increased acceptance and use of the Internet and wireless networks as a medium of commerce and communication. Rapid growth in the use of the Internet and wireless networks is a recent phenomenon. As a result, acceptance and use may not continue to develop at historical rates and a sufficiently broad base of business customers may not adopt or continue to use the Internet and wireless networks as a business medium. Demand for some of the Company’s products, such as PayWare Resolve may be materially impacted if a sufficiently broad base of business customers does not continue to use the internet and wireless networks as a business medium. 17 Our earnings will be adversely affected once we change our accounting policies with respect to the expensing of stock options. The Company does not currently deduct the expense of employee stock option grants from the Company’s income based on the fair value method. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment requiring companies to change their accounting policies to record as an expense the fair value of stock options issued to employees. We are required to adopt SFAS 123(R) beginning on February 1, 2006. The change in our accounting policy with respect to the treatment of employee stock option grants will materially adversely affect our earnings. 