D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our ordinary shares. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. The following risks are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report, before making any investment decision regarding our Company. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred losses in the past, and may incur losses in the future. Although we were profitable in the past four years, we incurred losses from 2006 through 2009. - 9 - Our results for 2013 reflect a slight growth in our business, aligned with the changes in the information technology, or IT, market in which we operate. In 2013, our profitability decreased, mainly as a result of lower than expected increase in revenues (including slightly lower product sales), combined with continued investments in research and development and selling and marketing initiatives, in a larger scale than in previous years. In addition, in 2013 we incurred material legal costs in relation with an intellectual property litigation matter, which we are currently involved in, reflected in our general and administrative expenses. Our ability to increase or sustain profitability in the future depends in part on the global economy; the rate of growth of, and changes in technology trends in, our market and other industries in which we currently or may in the future operate; our ability to develop and manufacture new products and technologies in a timely manner; the competitive position of our products; the continued acceptance of our products by our customers and in the industries that we serve; and our ability to manage expenses. In the future, we may have to undertake cost reduction initiatives to remain profitable, which could lead to a deterioration of our competitive position, and any difficulty in reducing our cost structure could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will continue to remain profitable. Our revenues also may not grow or continue at their current level, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. For example, the growth rate in 2012 compared to 2011 was approximately 13%, the growth rate in 2013 compared to 2012 was approximately 2% and revenues from product sales were slightly lower in 2013 compared to 2012. During 2013, we increased our operating expenses in order to invest in product development and sales and marketing. Revenues increased at a slower rate than operating expenses, resulting in a decrease of operating income to $17.6 million in 2013 from $30.9 million in 2012. We intend to increase our operating expenses during future periods. Our decision to increase operating expenses and the scope of such increase will depend upon several factors, including the market situation and the results that our past expenditures produce. We may continue to make additional expenditures in anticipation of generating higher revenues, which we may not realize, if at all, until sometime in the future. This could cause continuing reductions in our profitability or lead to losses. In February 2013, we completed the acquisition of Strangeloop Networks Inc., or Strangeloop, a Canadian-based provider of Web performance acceleration solutions. This acquisition resulted, among others, in additional operating costs. A failure of any acquisitions or product developments to produce increased revenues could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. If our revenues do not increase as anticipated, or if our expenses increase more than expected, we may incur losses. Severe global economic conditions and volatility of the market for our products, including slow-down in expenditures and other trends in our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is dependent on current and anticipated market demand for our products. For example, starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, the overall market’s IT spending decreased due to the global real estate and financial slowdown which led to a recessionary period. More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain European economies, thereby increasing global macroeconomic uncertainties. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. Should the economic slowdown resume, and/or companies in our target markets reduce capital expenditures, we may experience a reduction in sales, as well as downward pressure on the price of our products. In addition, if the market is flat and customers experience low visibility we may not be able to increase our sales (whether direct sales or indirect sales through our distributors). For example, our revenues in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) region has experienced a decline of 7%, in 2013 partially due to reduced IT spending in our market which we believe is associated with the continued economic slowdown in major Western European countries. Each of the above scenarios would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 10 - Competition in the market for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions and our industry in general is intense. As a result, we may lose market share and we may be unable to maintain profitability. The IT marketplace is competitive and has very few barriers to entry. In particular, the Application Delivery and Network Security markets in which we focus are highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future, and we may lose market share if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors. Most of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. Our principal competitors in the Application Delivery solutions market include: F5 Networks, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Citrix Systems, Inc., A10 Networks and Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. (Foundry Networks, Inc.). In addition, we face competitors in the Network Security space, with respect to our Attack Mitigation Systems from Arbor Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard, TippingPoint Technologies, Inc., Intel Corporation (McAfee, Inc.) and Imperva, Inc. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter the market or extend their portfolios into related technologies. Larger companies with substantial resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing Application Delivery or Network Security solutions and emerge as significant competitors. Competition may result in lower prices or reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover our costs, which may impair our ability to achieve, maintain and increase profitability. Furthermore, the dynamic market environment poses a challenge in predicting market trends and expected growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy in a manner that will allow us to be competitive. If any of our competitors offer products or services that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. For example, during 2013 we witnessed a strong price reduction trend by our major ADC competitors which impacted pricing throughout the entire ADC market. Similar changes in the future may further impact our market share, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Financial income is an important component of our net income. As of December 31, 2013, our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, had a carrying value of $285.7 million, compared with $274.9 million as of December 31, 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we had $4.5 million, $4.8 million and $4.2 million, respectively, of financial income. The outlook for our financial income is dependent, in part, on the future direction of interest rates, exchange rates, the amount of any share repurchases or acquisitions that we make and the amount of cash flows from operations that are available for investment. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of our funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns. Due to certain market developments, including investments’ rating downgrades, the fair value of these investments may decline. If market conditions continue to fluctuate, the fair value of our investments may be impacted accordingly. Although our investment guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. In particular, our investment portfolios include a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates and credit quality may also result in fluctuations in the income derived from, or the valuation of, our fixed income securities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. For example, benchmark interest rates, such as the U.S. Federal Funds Rate, are currently at historic lows, which is likely to significantly impact our investment income. Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. Conversely, if interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. - 11 - In terms of credit risk, our investment portfolio policy is buy and hold, while minimizing credit risk by setting maximum concentration limit per issuer and credit rating. Our investments consist primarily of government and corporate debentures and bank deposits. Although we believe that we generally adhere to conservative investment guidelines, if turmoil in the financial markets, such as the one experienced during 2011 and 2012, reoccurs in the future, it may result in impairments of the carrying value of our investment assets since we classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale. Changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are not recognized as income during the period, but rather are recognized as a separate component of equity until realized. Realized losses in our investments portfolio may adversely affect our financial position and results. For example, if we had reported all the changes in the fair values of our investments into income, our reported net income would have decreased by $0.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 and increased by $3.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2012. Any significant decline in our financial income or the value of our investments as a result of continued low interest rates, deterioration in the credit worthiness of the securities in which we have invested, general market conditions or other factors, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance because of our limited order backlog, our need to develop new products, the long sales cycles of our products, and the seasonal fluctuations in our sales. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control, including our limited order backlog, our need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and features, and the long sales cycles of our products. In addition, our quarterly operating results have been, and are likely to continue to be, influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the sales of our products and services. Because our sales have grown year-over-year since our inception, these fluctuations may not be apparent from our historical financial statements. However, we believe that our sales and sales growth have been, and will continue to be, affected by the seasonal purchasing patterns of some of our customers. For example, we believe that our sales may be reduced during the first quarter of 2014 due to our customers’ annual purchasing budget planning process and the third quarter of 2014 due to a slowdown in business activities during the summer months in Europe. Conversely, our sales during the fourth quarter of 2014 may be increased because some of our customers tend to make greater capital expenditures towards the end of their fiscal years. Based on these anticipated fluctuations in our markets, our sales and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of future performance and it may be difficult for investors to properly evaluate our prospects. If the markets for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions do not continue to develop and grow, we will not be able to sell enough of our products to maintain profitability. The Application Delivery and Network Security markets in which we operate are rapidly evolving and we cannot assure you that they will continue to develop and grow. In addition, we cannot assure you that our products and technology will keep pace with the changes to these markets. Market acceptance of Application Delivery and Network Security solutions may be inhibited by, among other factors, a lack of anticipated congestion and strain on existing network infrastructures and the availability of alternative solutions. If demand for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions does not continue to grow, or grows in a slower pace than expected, we may not be able to sell enough of our products to maintain and increase our profitability. We must develop new products and services as well as enhancements and new features to existing products to remain competitive. If we fail to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, we may lose market share. The markets for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our products typically constitute a critical portion of our customers’ data centers. In recent years, the capacity of transactions in such data centers has been steadily increasing. Due to such increases in capacity and in order to remain competitive in our industry, we must address the increased needs of our customers by developing more powerful platforms for our products. Additionally, we must address increased demands by our customers for advancements in our applications in order to support our customers’ growing needs and evolutions in their data centers. In order to meet this challenge and remain competitive in the market, we must introduce new enhancements to our existing product lines. - 12 - Accordingly, our future success will generally depend to a substantial extent on our ability to: · invest significantly in research and development; · develop, introduce and support new products and enhancements on a timely basis; and · gain market acceptance of our products. We are currently developing new products and enhancements to our existing products and services offerings. For example, DefensePipe™, launched in early 2013, is a comprehensive solution to help mitigate volumetric distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks which threaten to saturate a customer’s Internet pipe, or the ‘outside line’ that connects enterprises to the web. Our development of new products and enhancement of our offerings is undertaken in an effort to remain competitive in our market, and our failure to do so could result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, we must invest in research and development in order to remain competitive in our industry. However, there can be no assurances that continued investment and higher costs of research and development will ultimately result in us maintaining or increasing our market share, which would result in a decline to our operating results. If our research and development expenses increase without a corresponding increase in our revenues, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, or if we fail to gain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. During 2013, we invested in, and plan to continue to invest in 2014 in developing or when appropriate, acquiring, capabilities to advance our product offering and market vision. For example, our acquisition of Strangeloop in February 2013 was designed to enhance our web acceleration offerings to our customers. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling our next generation Application Delivery and Network Security solutions, or that we will be able to grow revenues to justify our investments. For example, in 2013 our R&D expenses increased to $41.0 million from $36.2 million in 2012. However, sales of products went down to $118.7 million in 2013 from $119.3 million in 2012. Our failure to develop and market new products or product enhancements on a timely basis or our failure to gain market acceptance of our new products could result in our loss of market share and our business and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue mergers or make acquisitions or other investments that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. In March 2009, we completed the purchase of certain assets from Nortel Networks Ltd., Nortel Networks Inc. and other Nortel entities (“Nortel”) in relation to the “Alteon®” product line (the “Alteon Acquisition”). More recently, in February 2013, we acquired Strangeloop. As part of our business strategy, we may invest in or acquire other complimentary businesses, technologies or assets or enter into joint ventures or other strategic relationships with third parties. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume liabilities, incur acquisition related costs, incur amortization expenses or realize write-offs on assets no longer being used or phased out. In addition, the future valuation of these acquisitions may decrease from the market price paid by us which could result in the impairment of our goodwill associated with the relevant assets. Moreover, our operation of any acquired or merged businesses, technologies or assets could involve numerous risks, including: · post-merger integration problems resulting from the combination of any acquired operations with our own operations or from the combination of two or more operations into a new merged entity; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; - 13 - · substantial expenditures, which could divert funds from other corporate uses; · entering markets in which we have little or no experience; · loss of key employees of the acquired operations; and · known or unknown contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, tax and litigation costs. We cannot be certain that any future acquisitions or mergers will be successful. If the operation of the business of any future acquisitions or mergers disrupts our operations, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and even if we successfully integrate the acquired business with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, our pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert our management’s attention from our core business and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations, whether or not such transactions are consummated. In addition, from time to time we look beyond our core business to help secure our long-term future. To that end, we may, from time to time, make investments in technologies that may not be complementary to our core business of Application Delivery and Network Security solutions. For example, since 2011, we invested a total of approximately $1.7 million in Radyoos Media Ltd. or Radyoos, our Israeli-based subsidiary, which primarily engages in developing and operating a web based e-commerce platform. As of the date of this report, Radyoos employs 13 employees and contractors, and is profitable, but we cannot be certain that this or other investments will be successful or will contribute towards the achievement of our long-term objectives. Investments outside of our core business could also expose us to new risks related to technologies with which we may have limited experience, if any. We have a limited order backlog, and if revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We have a limited order backlog which makes revenues in any quarter highly dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. Consequently, a delay in our recognition of revenue may have a negative impact on our results of operations for a given quarter. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and our expense levels are relatively fixed. As such, because only a small portion of our expenses are dependent on our revenues, if our revenues fall below our expectations, our earnings and profitability for that period will be materially and adversely affected. We depend upon independent distributors to sell our products to customers. If our distributors do not succeed in selling our products, we may not be able to operate profitably. We sell our products primarily to independent distributors, including value added resellers (VARs), original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and system integrators, and are highly dependent upon these distributors’ active marketing and sales efforts. We currently have several dozen active independent distributors and resellers that sell our products to the end-user customer. Our distribution agreements with our distributors generally are non-exclusive, one-year agreements with no obligation on the part of our distributors to renew the agreements. Our distribution agreements also typically do not prevent our distributors from selling products of our competitors and do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. As a result, our distributors may give higher priority to products of our competitors or their own products, thereby reducing their efforts to sell our products. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing distribution relationships, and we may not be successful in replacing them on a timely basis or at all. We may also need to develop new distribution channels for new products, and we may not succeed in doing so. Any changes in our distribution channels, including a termination or other disruption of our commercial relationship with our distributors, or our inability to establish distribution channels for new products could impair our ability to sell our products and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 14 - Our products generally have long sales cycles, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to the business of our customers. As a result, our pre-sales process is often subject to delays associated with budgetary constraints, lengthy approval processes and procurement processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new equipment. The sales cycles of our products to new customers can last as long as twelve months (and in some cases, for example with carrier customers, even longer) from initial presentation to sale. This long sales cycle results in a delay to our recognition of revenue and results in our need to make significant investments in marketing and sales. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered in a short sales cycle, including our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews and processes prior to purchase. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of our customers’ procurement decisions. Furthermore, customers may defer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors. These factors complicate our planning processes and reduce the predictability of our earnings. We must manage our anticipated growth effectively in order to maintain and increase our profitability. We have actively expanded our operations in the past and may continue to expand them in the future in order to gain market share in the evolving market for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions. This expansion has required, and may continue to require, managerial, operational and financial resources. In some cases, we may choose to increase our cost of operations on account of our short term profitability in order to support future expansion and growth. We cannot assure that we will continue to expand our operations successfully. If we are unable to manage our expanding operations effectively, our revenues may not increase, our cost of operations may rise and we may not be profitable. In addition, as we continue our growth efforts, we may need new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls. The transition to new systems, procedures or controls, as well as any delay in transitioning to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may result in increased costs and harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand and manage our customer relationships. Our international sales may expose us to additional risks We currently offer our products in over 40 countries, including the U.S. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, our sales outside the Americas represented approximately 62% and 69%, respectively, of our total sales. Our international business activity involves varying degrees of risk and uncertainty inherent in doing business in so many different jurisdictions. Such risks include, among others, the possibility of unfavorable circumstances and additional compliance costs arising from host country laws or regulations, including unexpected changes of interpretations thereof; partial or total expropriation, export duties and quotas; local tax exposure; political instability, insurrection or war; differences in business practices; and recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets, such as those that occurred in some European countries during 2011 through 2013. Currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are impacted by exchange rates and fluctuations thereof in a number of ways, including: · A large portion of our expenses in Israel, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are paid in shekels, whereas most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars. During 2013, we witnessed a strengthening of the average exchange rate of the shekel against the U.S. dollar, which increased the U.S. dollar value of Israeli expenses. If the shekel continues to strengthen against the U.S. dollar, as happened in 2013, the dollar value of our Israeli expenses will increase; · A portion of our international sales are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, such as the Euro, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions; - 15 - · We incur expenses in several other currencies in connection with our operations in Europe and Asia; · The devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to such local currencies causes our operational expenses to increase; and · The majority of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to decrease orders or default on payment. We do not presently engage in or plan to engage in any hedging or other transactions intended to manage risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Consequently, we are exposed to risks related to changes in currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we enter into hedging transactions in the future, they may not effectively protect us from currency exchange rate risks. For a further discussion of the impact on currency exchange rates on our business, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified sales, technical and customer support personnel. As we grow, we may need to increase our research and development, sales and marketing, and support staff. Our products require a sophisticated marketing and sales effort targeted at several levels within a prospective customer’s organization. Accordingly, we need highly-trained sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for such qualified personnel is intense. Consequently, we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to support our business operations, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on Roy Zisapel, our President and Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Roy Zisapel, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have employment contracts with our senior management and key personnel, including Mr. Zisapel, we do not carry life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Mr. Zisapel, other members of senior management or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. Undetected defects and errors may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. Our products have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released, due to defects or errors that we fail to detect, including in components supplied by third parties. These defects or errors may be found after the commencement of commercial shipments. In addition, our customers integrate our products into their networks with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the product that has caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these defects or errors, we will then need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the detection and correction of these errors and defects. In the past, we have not incurred significant warranty or repair costs, nor have we been subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors or defects, nor have we experienced any material lags or delays as a result thereof. However, we cannot assure you that we will not incur these costs or liabilities or experience these lags or delays in the future. Any insurance coverage that we maintain may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. Moreover, the occurrence of errors and defects, whether caused by our products or the components supplied by another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and injure our reputation, thereby impairing the market acceptance of our products. - 16 - We primarily rely on four third-party assembly and manufacturing vendors to provide our finished products. If such vendors are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of the products, we may be delayed in fulfilling orders or we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand. We primarily rely on Nexcom International Co. Ltd. (“Nexcom”), Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”), Emerson Electric Co. (“Emerson”) and Radisys Corporation (“Radisys”) for the production of our products. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we used Nexcom, Broadcom, Emerson and Radisys to manufacture and to provide components for our products, purchasing approximately 74%, 10%, 3% and 1% of our direct manufacturing costs of our products, respectively, from each of those manufacturers. If we are unable to continue to acquire from these manufacturers on acceptable terms, or should any of these manufacturers cease to supply us with such products for any reason, we may not be able to identify and integrate an alternative source of supply in a timely fashion or at the same costs. Any transition to one or more alternate manufacturers would likely result in delays, operational problems and increased costs, and may limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on time for such transition period, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A shortage of components or manufacturing capacity could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders or increase our manufacturing costs. Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter supply and fulfillment issues in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. We may experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts, especially if there is growth in the overall economy. If there is growth in the economy, such growth is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenues and gross margins could be materially and adversely affected until other sources can be developed. In addition, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we anticipate greater demand than actually develops and we commit to the purchase more components than we actually require. Any disruption in our supply chain could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology. Our success depends, in part, upon the protection of our proprietary software installed in our products, our trade secrets and our trademarks. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark and patent law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, distributors and others. In the United States and several other countries, we have registered or acquired trademarks. In addition, we have registered patents in the U.S. and have pending patent applications and provisional patents in connection with several of our products’ features. - 17 - The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter infringement upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Effective trademark, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer, or intend to offer, our products. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could devalue our proprietary content, impair our ability to compete effectively and eventually harm our operating results. Furthermore, defending our intellectual property rights, either by way of initiating intellectual property litigation or defending such, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the outcome of such proceedings, if such outcome is negative, could result in devaluation of our proprietary technology and cause an additional significant financial impact which may harm our operating results. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert claims that we have violated a patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary intellectual property right belonging to them. As is characteristic of our industry, there can be no assurance that our products do not or will not infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to patents or other proprietary rights or that we would prevail in any such proceedings. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications asserting that the technology used in some of our products requires third-party licenses. For example, see “Item 8. Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” Any infringement claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation or arbitration and divert the attention of technical and management personnel. For example, in 2013, intellectual property litigation costs amounted to $3.5 million and litigation continues in 2014. Any adverse outcome in litigation alleging infringement could require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If, in such situations, we are unable to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, we may be prevented from manufacturing or selling products that infringe such intellectual property of a third party. An unfavorable outcome or settlement regarding one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If our products fail to protect against malicious attacks and our end-users experience security breaches, our reputation and business could be harmed, and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Defects may cause our products to be vulnerable to security attacks or cause them to fail to help secure networks. Data thieves are increasingly sophisticated, often affiliated with organized crime and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. In addition, the techniques they use to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, our products may be unable to anticipate these techniques and provide a solution in time to protect our end- users’ networks. If we fail to identify and respond to new and increasingly complex methods of attack and to update our products to detect or prevent such threats in time to protect our end- users’ critical business data, our business, operating results and reputation could suffer. In addition, an actual or perceived security breach or theft of sensitive data of one of our end-users, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. There is no guarantee that our products will be free of flaws or vulnerabilities. Our end- users may also misuse our products, which could result in a breach or theft of business data. Our non-competition agreements with our employees may not be enforceable. If any of these employees leave us and join a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. We currently have non-competition agreements with most of our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, in the event they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for some of our competitors for a limited period after termination of employment. The laws of the United States, Israel and most other countries in which we have employees may limit or prohibit our ability to enforce these non-competition agreements or may allow us to enforce them only to a limited extent. In the event that we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, competitors that employ our former employees could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. - 18 - Our bank deposits and investments in Israel are not insured, and our bank deposits in the United States are in excess of insured limits. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term bank deposits are invested in banks in Israel and, to a smaller extent, in banks in the United States. The Israeli bank deposits are not insured, while the deposits made in the United States are in excess of insured limits and are not otherwise insured. If one or more of these financial institutions were to become insolvent, the loss of these investments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are subject to certain tax audits, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our business in various countries, and we attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to optimize our tax payments based on the laws in the countries in which we operate. This can cause disputes between us and various tax authorities in the countries in which we operate, whether due to tax positions that we have taken in various tax returns we have filed or due to determinations we have made not to file tax returns in certain jurisdictions. In particular, not all of our tax returns are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by applicable tax authorities. There can be no assurance that the applicable tax authorities will accept our tax positions, and if they do not, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which, our future results may be adversely affected. For example, in December 2010, the Israeli Tax Authority (“ITA”) issued orders challenging our positions on several matters with respect to our 2004 and 2005 tax returns. In January 2012, the ITA issued orders challenging our positions on several other matters with respect to our 2006 and 2008 tax returns. In the aggregate, the ITA demanded the payment of additional taxes in the total amount of approximately $17.5 million for these four years. In August 2013, following legal proceedings, we reached a settlement with the ITA regarding these matters, whereby we agreed to make total payments of $2.3 million. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Yehuda Zisapel, our chairman of the board, Nava Zisapel, and Roy Zisapel, our chief executive officer, may exert significant influence in the election of our directors and over the outcome of other matters requiring shareholder approval. As of March 24, 2014, Yehuda Zisapel, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 6.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares; Nava Zisapel, beneficially owned approximately 6.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares; and their son, Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer, President and director, beneficially owned approximately 5.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares (see “Item 6E – Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Share Ownership”). As a result, if these shareholders act together, they could exert significant influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look through rules, (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the fair market value of our assets, averaged quarterly over our taxable year, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are classified as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences, including having gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to such gain. Similar rules apply to certain “excess distributions” made with respect to our ordinary shares. - 19 - For our 2013 taxable year, we do not believe that we should be classified as a PFIC. There can be no assurance, however, that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not challenge this treatment, and it is possible that the IRS could attempt to treat us as a PFIC for 2013 and prior taxable years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually, and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets and market capitalization, including the future price of our ordinary shares, all of which are relevant to the PFIC determination. There can also be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in future taxable years. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. For a more detailed discussion of the rules relating to PFICs and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” We do not intend to pay cash dividends. While we may engage from time to time in “buy-back” programs of our shares, our policy is to retain earnings for use in our business operations. For this reason, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Our share price has decreased significantly in the past and could continue to fluctuate and further decrease in the future. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. For example, during 2013 the lowest closing price of our share was $13.7, compared to the highest closing price of our share of $19.3 during the same year. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly and further decrease, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly-traded competitors; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction of new products and new industry standards; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • general market conditions and changes in market conditions in our industry; • the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector); and • political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel, the U.S. and worldwide. - 20 - Provisions of our Articles of Association and Israeli law as well as the terms of our equity incentive plan could delay, prevent or make a change of control of us more difficult or costly, which could depress the price of our ordinary shares. The provisions in our Articles of Association that provide that our directors, other than our external directors, are elected in three staggered classes by a majority vote of our shareholders may have the effect of delaying or making an unsolicited acquisition of our Company more difficult. Israeli corporate and tax law may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of us more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, an Israeli court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. In addition, our Key Employee Share Incentive Plan (1997), as amended, or the Share Incentive Plan, provides that in the event of a “Hostile Takeover” (which is defined to include, among others, an unsolicited acquisition of more than 20% of our outstanding shares), the vesting of all or a portion of our outstanding equity awards, including stock options, will accelerate, unless otherwise determined by our Board of Directors (or a committee thereof). As a result, an acquisition of our Company that triggers the said acceleration will be more costly to a potential acquirer. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control over us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unwilling to do so because of these provisions. For additional information on this topic, see “Item 6C – Board Practices – Staggered Board,” “Item 6E – Directors Senior Management and Employees – Share Ownership - Key Employee Share Incentive Plan” and “Item 10B – Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” Regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and may damage our relationship with certain customers. In August 2012, the SEC adopted requirements regarding mandatory disclosure for companies regarding their use of “conflict minerals” (including tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. In general, while we do not directly purchase or use any of these “conflict minerals” as raw materials in the products we manufacture or as part of our manufacturing processes, we are in the process of examining whether such minerals are contained in the products supplied to us by third parties and, if so, whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. If we utilize any of these minerals and they are necessary to the production or functionality of any of our products or products we are contracted to manufacture, we will need to file with the SEC a report in May 2014 disclosing, among others, whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain components incorporated in our products. In addition, to the extent the rules apply to us, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products, and possibly additional expenses related to any changes to our products we may decide are advisable based upon our due diligence findings. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face reputational challenges with our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Security and political and economic instability in the Middle East may harm our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected if political, economic and military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between the Palestinians and Israel, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, other countries around the world. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. In 2011 and 2012, riots and popular uprisings in several countries in the Middle East have led to severe political instability in those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between Israel and some of these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace. We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date; however, there can be no assurance that this will be the case for future operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel or a significant increase in the rate of inflation. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries or companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as the result of the aforementioned hostilities. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. - 21 - Some of our directors and officers as well as many of our Israeli employees are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel. We cannot assess the potential impact of these obligations on our business. Some of our directors, officers and employees are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, depending upon their age and prior position in the army. They may also be subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer and President, is among our key employees subject to the military reserve duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence, for a significant period, of one of more of these officers or other key employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations could harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. The change in the exchange rate between the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar and/or the U.S. dollar against the Euro and other currencies is volatile, and may negatively impact our costs. Most of our revenues worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars or are dollar-linked. The substantial portion of our expenses is incurred in U.S. dollars, but we incur a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, in other currencies, mainly in Israel - in NIS, in Europe - in Euros and in Asia-Pacific - in several local currencies. If the NIS increases in value relative to the dollar, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, if the Euro increases in value relative to the dollar and sales in Euros do not exceed expenses incurred in Euros, the dollar cost of our operations in Europe will increase and our operating profit will be adversely affected. If the Euro decreases in value relative to the dollar and sales in Euros exceed expenses incurred in Euros, our operating profit will be negatively affected as a result of a decrease in the dollar value of our sales. If the dollar decreases in value relative to Chinese, Indian, Australian, Korean and/or Japanese currencies, the dollar cost of our operations in Asia-Pacific will increase and our operating profit will be negatively affected. For example, during 2013, the average value of the dollar decreased in relation to the NIS and the Euro. As a result, during 2013, we had an increase in the dollar value of our expenses in Israel, which are mostly denominated in NIS, and in the dollar value of our expenses in Europe, which are mostly denominated in Euro. By contrast, due to the fact that a portion of our sales in Europe are also denominated in Euro, we were positively impacted by the strengthening of the Euro value relative to the dollar during 2013. We cannot provide assurances that we will not be materially adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations in the future. See also “Currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations” above in this section. We have obtained substantial benefits from the Israeli Office of Chief Scientist, which subjects us to ongoing restrictions. In addition, these benefits may not continue or in the future may be limited or restricted. We have in the past received, and may in the future apply for, royalty-bearing or non-royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Economy (formerly, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor), or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. The terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. In addition, any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer (including by way of holding 25% or more of the voting power, equity or the right to nominate directors in such direct holder), or is serving as one of our directors or as our chief executive officer, is required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions and penalties of which are the transferability limits described above. - 22 - Further, the Chief Scientist grants may be terminated in the future or the available benefits may be reduced or impacted, including, among other possible circumstances, should we transfer certain research and development and/or manufacturing activities outside the State of Israel. The termination or curtailment of these programs or the loss or reduction of such benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The tax benefits we may receive in connection with our approved enterprise program or privileged enterprise program require us to satisfy prescribed conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future. This would increase taxes and decrease our net profit. We have in the past benefited, and currently benefit from certain government programs and certain tax benefits in Israel. To remain eligible to obtain such tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be canceled and we may have to pay certain taxes or refund payments previously received under these programs (with interest and linkage differentials). We cannot guarantee that these programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or at all. If these programs and tax benefits are ended, our tax expenses and the resulting effective tax rate reflected in our financial statements may increase and as such our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors and to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries, our directors and officers and the Israeli experts, if any, named in this annual report, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors, officers and such Israeli experts are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may be difficult to collect within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel that it may also be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws as well as a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that the following key conditions are met: · subject to limited exceptions, the judgment is final and non-appealable; · the judgment was given by a court competent under the laws of the state of the court and is otherwise enforceable in such state; · the judgment was rendered by a court competent under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; · the laws of the state in which the judgment was given provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter was not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit was instituted in the U.S. court. - 23 - 