D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report in evaluating an investment in our preferred shares or ADSs. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed if any of these materializes and, as a result, the trading price of the preferred shares or the ADSs could decline and you could lose a substantial part or even all of your investment. We have included information in these risk factors concerning Brazil based on information that is publicly available. Risks Relating to Ultrapar and Its Industry Petrobras is effectively the only supplier of LPG in Brazil. LPG distributors in Brazil, including Ultragaz, do not have formal contracts with Petrobras for the supply of LPG. Any interruption in the supply of LPG from Petrobras immediately affects Ultragaz’ ability to provide LPG to its customers. Prior to 1995, Petrobras held a constitutional monopoly for the production and importation of petroleum products in Brazil. Although the Brazilian government absolved Petrobras’ monopoly in November 1995, Petrobras effectively remains the sole provider of LPG in Brazil. Currently, Ultragaz and all other LPG distributors in Brazil purchase all or nearly all LPG from Petrobras. Ultragaz’ net sales and services represented 64.0% of our consolidated net sales and services for the year ended December 31, 2006. The last significant interruption in the supply of LPG by Petrobras to the distributors occurred in 1995, due to a 15-day strike by Petrobras employees. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview.” Furthermore, all Brazilian LPG distributors, including Ultragaz, currently purchase all their LPG requirements from Petrobras without a formal LPG supply contract. The procedures for ordering and purchasing LPG from Petrobras are generally common to all LPG distributors — including Ultragaz. For more details, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Ultragaz — Supply of LPG.” Significant interruptions to LPG supplies from Petrobras may occur in the future. Any interruption in the supply of LPG from Petrobras immediately affects Ultragaz’ ability to provide LPG to its customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of LPG from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through LPG purchased on the international market. The cost of LPG on the international market is currently more expensive than the LPG we obtain through Petrobras. 7 Table of Contents Intense competition in the LPG distribution market may affect our operating margins. The Brazilian LPG market is very competitive in all segments — residential, commercial and industrial. Petrobras, our supplier of LPG, and other major companies with greater resources than we possess have entered the Brazilian LPG distribution market. Intense competition in the LPG distribution market could lead to lower sales volumes and increased marketing expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview — The role of Petrobras” and Item 4.B. “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Competition.” LPG competes with alternative sources of energy. Competition with and the development of alternate sources of energy in the future may adversely affect the LPG market. LPG competes with natural gas, wood, diesel, fuel oil and electricity. Natural gas is currently the principal source of energy against which we compete. Natural gas is currently less expensive than LPG for industrial consumers who purchase large volumes, but more expensive for residential consumers. In addition, supply of natural gas requires significant investments in pipelines. The development of alternative sources of energy in the future may adversely affect the LPG market and consequently our business, financial results and results of operations. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Competition.” Ethylene, the principal raw material used in our petrochemical operations, comes from limited supply sources. Any reduction in the supply of ethylene would have an immediate impact on Oxiteno’s production and results of operation. All second generation petrochemical producers in Brazil that use ethylene as their key raw material, including Oxiteno, our subsidiary involved in the production and sale of chemical and petrochemical products, purchase ethylene from Brazilian suppliers. Approximately 25% of our net sales are derived from the sale of chemical products that require ethylene. Oxiteno purchases ethylene from two of Brazil’s three naphtha crackers, which are the sole sources of ethylene in Brazil. Braskem S.A., or Braskem, supplies all of our ethylene requirements at our plant located at Camaçari pursuant to a long-term contract, and Petroquímica União S.A., or PQU, supplies all of our ethylene requirements at our plant located at Mauá. Oxiteno, like other purchasers from PQU, does not have a long-term contract for the purchase of ethylene from PQU. Because of its characteristics, ethylene is difficult and expensive to store and transport, and cannot be easily imported into Brazil. Therefore, Oxiteno is almost totally dependent on ethylene produced at Braskem and PQU for its supply of ethylene. For the year ended December 31, 2006, Brazilian ethylene imports totaled approximately 1.4 tons, representing less than 0.01% of Brazil’s installed capacity. Due to ethylene’s chemical characteristics, Oxiteno does not store significant quantities of ethylene, and reductions in supply from Braskem and PQU would have an immediate impact on our production and results of operations. We are currently investing in the ethylene oxide production capacity expansion and we have agreed with Braskem and PQU the additional ethylene supply for this expansion. See “Item 4.A. Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company — Investments.” If we further expand our production capacity, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional ethylene from Braskem and PQU. In addition, Petrobras is the principal supplier of naphtha to crackers in Brazil, and any interruption in the supply of naphtha from Petrobras to the crackers could adversely impact their ability to supply ethylene to Oxiteno. The Brazilian petrochemical industry is very closely influenced by the performance of the international petrochemical industry and its cyclical behavior. The international petrochemical market is cyclical in nature, with alternating periods of tight supply, increased prices and high margins, and overcapacity, declining prices and low margins. The decrease in Brazilian tariff rates on petrochemical products, the increase in demand for such products in Brazil, and the ongoing integration of regional and world markets for commodities, among other factors, have contributed to the increasing integration of the Brazilian petrochemical industry into the international petrochemical marketplace. As a consequence, events affecting the petrochemical industry worldwide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents The price of ethylene is subject to fluctuations in international oil prices. The price of ethylene, which is the principal component of Oxiteno’s cost of sales and services, is directly linked to the price of naphtha, which, in turn, is largely linked to the price of crude oil. Consequently, ethylene prices are subject to fluctuations in international oil prices. A significant increase in the price of crude oil and, consequently, naphtha and ethylene, could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The reduction in import tariffs on petrochemical products can reduce our competitiveness in relation to imported products. Final prices paid by importers of petrochemical products include import tariffs. Consequently, import tariffs imposed by the Brazilian government affect the prices we can charge for our products. The Brazilian government’s negotiation of commercial and free trade agreements, principally with NAFTA, the European Union and Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf, may result in reductions in Brazilian import duties on petrochemical products, which generally range between 12% and 14%, and may reduce the competitiveness of our products vis-à-vis imported petrochemical products. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations in Brazil and Mexico. Petrochemical companies like ours are required to obtain licenses for their manufacturing facilities from environmental authorities which may also regulate their operations by prescribing specific environmental standards in their operating licenses. Environmental regulations apply particularly to the discharge, handling and disposal of gaseous, liquid and solid products and by-products from manufacturing activities. Changes in these laws and regulations or changes in the enforcement policy of these laws and regulations, could adversely affect us by increasing our cost of compliance or operation. In addition, it is possible that new laws or additional regulations will come into force, or that the relevant enforcement agencies will seek a more stringent interpretation of existing laws and regulations that would require us to spend additional funds on environmental matters in order to continue to keep our plants and operations in compliance with current legislation. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards,” “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Petrochemicals and Chemicals — Overview of the sector and applicable regulations — Environmental, health and safety standards” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Logistics of Chemical Products and Fuels — Ultracargo — Transportation — Transportation Regulation.” The production, storage and transportation of petrochemicals and chemicals are inherently hazardous. The complex manufacturing operations we perform at our plants involve a variety of safety and other operating risks, including the handling, production and transportation of highly inflammable, explosive and toxic materials. These risks could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. A sufficiently large accident at one of our plants or storage facilities could force us to suspend our operations temporarily and result in significant remediation costs and lost revenue. In addition, insurance proceeds may not be available on a timely basis and may be insufficient to cover all losses. Equipment breakdowns, natural disasters, and delays in obtaining imports or required replacement parts or equipment can also affect our manufacturing operations and consequently our results from operations. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses that we might incur. The operation of any chemical manufacturing plant and the distribution of petrochemicals, as well as the operations of logistics of oil and chemical products and LPG distribution involve substantial risks of property 9 Table of Contents contamination and personal injury and may result in material costs and liabilities. Although we believe that current insurance levels are adequate, the occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance or that exceed the limits of our insurance coverage could result in significant unexpected additional costs. The suspension, cancellation or non-renewal of certain federal tax benefits may adversely affect our results of operations. We are entitled to federal tax benefits providing for income tax exemption or reduction for our activities in the northeast region of Brazil. These benefits may be cancelled or suspended if we do not comply with our commitment not to distribute to our shareholders the amounts under the benefits or if the relevant tax authorities decide to suspend or cancel our benefits. As a result, we may become liable for the payment of related taxes at the full tax rates. If we are not able to renew the tax benefits, or if we are only able to renew them under terms that are substantially less favorable than expected, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Tax exemptions amounted to R$50.3 million, R$63.8 million and R$93.5 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Tax exemption status,” “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Petrochemicals and Chemicals — Oxiteno — Tax exemption status” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Logistics of Chemical Products and Fuels — Ultracargo — Tax exemption status.” The federal tax authorities may decline to renew these benefits or may modify the terms upon which such renewals will be granted. The failure to renew such benefits on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations. We are currently controlled by members of our founding family and our senior management, which substantially limits the ability of other shareholders to control the direction of our business. Our senior management and the members of our founding family indirectly control approximately 66% of our voting share capital through their control of Ultra S.A. This level of control enables Ultra to elect the majority of our directors and to determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval. See “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements.” Our status as a holding company may limit our ability to pay dividends on the preferred shares and consequently, on the ADSs. As a holding company, we have no significant operating assets other than our ownership of shares of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our operating income comes from our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends depends solely upon our receipt of dividends and other cash flows from our subsidiaries. Risks Relating to the Target Operations, the Ipiranga Group and their Industry Petrobras is the main supplier of gasoline and diesel fuel in Brazil. Any interruption in the supply of gasoline or diesel fuel from Petrobras may adversely affect the Target Operations’ ability to provide fuel to its customers. Prior to 1995, Petrobras held a constitutional monopoly for the production and importation of petroleum products in Brazil. Although the Brazilian government terminated Petrobras’ monopoly in November 1995, Petrobras effectively remains the major provider of oil-based fuels in Brazil. Currently, the Target Operations and all other fuels distributors in Brazil purchase all or nearly all oil-based fuels from Petrobras. The last significant interruption in the supply of fuels from Petrobras to the distributors occurred in 1995, due to a 15-day strike by Petrobras employees. The procedures for ordering and purchasing fuels from Petrobras are generally common to all fuel distributors — including the Target Operations. Significant interruptions to fuel supplies from Petrobras may occur in the future. Any interruption in the supply of fuels from Petrobras immediately affects the Target Operations’ ability to provide oil-based fuels to its customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of oil-based fuels from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through fuels purchased on the international market, which could be more expensive than the fuels we would obtain through Petrobras, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Anticompetitive Practices In the last few years, anticompetitive practices have been one of the main problems affecting fuel distributors in Brazil, including the Target Operations. Such practices on the part of certain distributors have caused a large supply of fuel products to be sold at prices lower than those offered by the major distributors, including the Target Operations, which has resulted in a considerable increase in the sales volumes of the distributors who have adopted these practices. The practices have involved, among other actions, tax evasion and the dilution of gasoline through the addition of solvents or an amount of anhydrous ethanol higher than that permitted under applicable laws. If these practices become more prevalent, the Company could suffer from a reduction in sales volume, consequently negatively impacting its earnings. Taxes Taxes constitute a significant portion of the cost of fuel sold in Brazil. For this reason, in the past, tax evasion on the part of fuel distributors has been prevalent, which contributed to a distortion of the prices charged by distributors which, in certain cases, were actually below their operational costs. In addition, the end prices of the products sold by distributors, including the Target Operations, are calculated based on, among other factors, the amount of taxes levied on the purchase and sale of these fuels. Should there be any increase in the taxes levied on fuel, it is not possible to guarantee that there will not be an increase in tax evasion on the part of market participants and, as a consequence, lower prices being charged by such participants that could increase competition and negatively affect our results of operations. Intense competition in the fuels distribution market may adversely affect the Target Operations’ operating margins The Brazilian fuel market is highly competitive and other major companies with greater resources than we possess are present in the market. The Target Operations purchase a large portion of their products from suppliers who are also current or potential competitors. Intense competition in the fuels distribution market could lead to lower sales volumes and increased marketing expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. Safety and Other Operational Risks The transport and storage of fuels, which are flammable, explosive and toxic, implies a series of safety risks as well as other operational risks. These activities can result in bodily injury or death, damage or destruction of installations or equipment, and environmental damage. An accident of sufficient size in the Target Companies’ operations could force them to suspend or temporarily reduce their activities, resulting in significant cleanup or other costs and the loss of revenues. The Target Companies’ insurance coverage may not be available on a timely basis, or may be insufficient to cover all losses incurred. The breakage of equipment, natural disasters and delays in the obtaining of replacement parts or replacement equipment could also affect the Target Companies’ distribution processes, and as a consequence, our results of its operations. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental laws and regulations. The distribution of oil products is subject to extensive federal and state legislation and regulation by Brazilian governmental agencies responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. Changes in these laws and regulations or changes in the enforcement policy of these laws and regulations, could adversely affect us by increasing our cost of compliance or operation. In addition, it is possible that new laws or additional regulations will come into force, or that the relevant enforcement agencies will seek a more stringent interpretation of existing laws and regulations that would require us to spend additional funds on environmental matters in order to continue to keep our plants and operations in compliance with current legislation. 11 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Acquisition The integration of Ultrapar and the Target Operations following the Acquisition may present significant challenges. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating Ultrapar’s businesses and the Target Operations. These difficulties include: • the need to consolidate organizations with headquarters located in different cities; • the challenge of integrating the business cultures of the Target Companies with that of Ultrapar; and • the need to retain key officers and personnel of the Target Companies. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of Ultrapar and the Target Companies’ businesses. Following completion of the Acquisition, Ultrapar’s senior management team may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage the business of Ultrapar, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. If Ultrapar’s senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, Ultrapar’s business could suffer. Ultrapar and the Target Companies cannot assure you that they will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the Target Companies and Ultrapar’s existing businesses. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Ultrapar’s business, financial condition and results of operations following completion of the Acquisition. Regulatory agencies may delay or impose conditions on approval of the Acquisition, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. The CVM, the Brazilian securities regulator, has authority over the Proposed Offers. The registration of the Mandatory Tender Offering defined below in “Item 4.A. Information on the Company – History and Development of the Company – Recent Developments – Acquisition of the Ipiranga Group” is subject to CVM approval. Also, pursuant to CVM Rule nº 372 and article 124, paragraph 5 of Brazilian Corporate Law (Law n. 6,404/76, modified by Law n.10,303/2001), the CVM may delay the shareholders meetings duly called to approve the Share Exchange for up to 15 days, or increase the term to publish the first notice for the call of the general meeting of a publicly-held company by up to thirty (30) days, counted from the date in which the documents related to the matters to be resolved are made available to the shareholders in order to analyze the transaction and verify that it does not breach applicable laws or regulations. Although we believe that the Proposed Offers described in this annual report comply with applicable laws and regulations and provide equitable treatment to the shareholders of Ultrapar and the Target Companies, we cannot predict the outcome of any such analysis of the transaction by the CVM. See “Item 4A. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Recent Developments—Acquisition of the Ipiranga Group” for additional information about the Proposed Offers. While Ultrapar and the Target Companies intend to pursue vigorously all required governmental approvals and do not know of any reason why they would not be able to obtain the necessary approvals in a timely manner, the requirement that these approvals be given before all the steps of the Acquisition are consummated could delay the completion of the Proposed Offers and the Acquisition, possibly for a significant period of time after the Acquiring Companies have approved the Acquisition. In addition, these governmental agencies may attempt to condition their approval of the Proposed Offers and the Acquisition on the imposition of conditions that could have an adverse effect on Ultrapar’s operating results or the value of Ultrapar’s preferred stock. Any delay in the completion of the Acquisition could diminish anticipated benefits of the Acquisition or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the transaction. 12 Table of Contents As a result of the Acquisition, Ultrapar will assume certain liabilities of the Target Companies and will assume all the risks relating to those liabilities. You should be aware that because Ultrapar will assume certain liabilities of the Target Companies as a result of the Acquisition, certain existing known or unknown financial obligations, legal liabilities or other contingent liabilities or risks of the Target Companies will become the responsibility of Ultrapar. See “Item 5B. Operating and Financial Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness” for more information regarding the financial obligations to be assumed by Ultrapar in connection with the Acquisition. These liabilities could cause Ultrapar to be required to make payments, incur charges or take other actions that could adversely affect Ultrapar’s financial position and results of operations and the price of Ultrapar’s preferred shares. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Brazilian political and economic conditions could adversely affect our business and the market price of our preferred shares and the ADSs. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes drastic changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and effect other policies and regulations have often involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls, and limits on imports, among other measures. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations involving or affecting tariffs, exchange controls and other matters, as well as factors such as: • currency fluctuations; • inflation; • interest rates; • price instability; • energy shortages; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • fiscal policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government may implement changes in policy or regulation affecting these or other factors in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. These and other future developments in the Brazilian economy and governmental policies may adversely affect us and our business and results of operations and may adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs and our preferred shares. 13 Table of Contents Inflation and certain governmental measures to curb inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and could harm our business and the market value of the ADSs and our preferred shares. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation and some of the Brazilian government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than in previous periods. However, inflationary pressures persist, and actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future governmental actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market. According to the Índice Geral de Preços-Mercado, or IGP-M, a general price inflation index, the Brazilian general price inflation rates were 8.7%, 12.4%, 1.2% and 3.9% in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in the future. Our cash operating expenses are substantially in reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation. Inflationary pressures may also hinder our ability to access foreign financial markets or may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could harm our business or adversely affect the market value of our preferred shares and, as a result, our ADSs. Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our preferred shares. As a result of inflationary pressures, the Brazilian currency has been devalued periodically during the last four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and utilized a number of exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly, floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. Although over long periods depreciation of the Brazilian currency generally has correlated with the rate of inflation in Brazil, devaluation over shorter periods has resulted in significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The real depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 18.7% in 2001. In 2002, the real depreciated 52.3% against the U.S. dollar, due in part to political uncertainty surrounding the Brazilian presidential elections and the global economic slowdown. Although the real has appreciated since then (18.2% in 2003, 8.1% in 2004, 11.8% in 2005, 8.7% in 2006 and an additional 4.9% from January to April 2007), no assurance can be given that the real will not depreciate or be devalued against the U.S. dollar again. See “Item 3.A. Key Information — Selected Consolidated Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” There are no guarantees that the exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar will stabilize at current levels. Although we have managed our existing U.S. dollar debt obligations in order to protect against fluctuations in the dollar/real exchange rate, we could in the future experience monetary losses relating to these fluctuations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign exchange risk” for information about our foreign exchange risk hedging policy. Depreciations of the real relative to the U.S. dollar also create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciations generally curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciations also reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our preferred shares and, as a result, the ADSs. On the other hand, appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. Although a large part of our sales is denominated in reais, prices and certain costs (particularly ethylene, purchased by our subsidiary Oxiteno) in the chemical business are benchmarked to prices prevailing in the international markets. Hence, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our capacity to service our debt. 14 Table of Contents Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, especially emerging market countries may adversely affect the results of our operations and the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs. The market value of securities of Brazilian companies is affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in other emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. This could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. United States investors may not be able to obtain jurisdiction over or enforce judgments against us. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Federative Republic of Brazil. All members of our Board of Directors, executive officers and experts named in this annual report are residents of Brazil. All or a substantial part of the assets pertaining to these individuals and to Ultrapar are located outside the United States. As a result, it is possible that investors may not be able to obtain jurisdiction over these individuals or Ultrapar in the United States, or enforce judgments handed down by United States courts of law based on provisions for civil liability under federal law in relation to securities of the United States or otherwise. Risks Relating to the Preferred Shares and the American Depositary Shares The preferred shares and the ADSs generally do not give you voting rights. Generally under Brazilian corporate law and in the case of our bylaws, holders of preferred shares do not have the right to vote at shareholders’ meetings except in limited circumstances. This means, among other things, that holders of our preferred shares and our ADSs, which represent preferred shares, are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions including mergers or consolidations with other companies. See “Item 10.B. Additional Information — Memorandum and Bylaws.” The preferred shares and ADSs do not entitle you to a fixed or minimum dividend. Under our bylaws, unless otherwise proposed by the Board of Directors and approved by the voting shareholders in the Annual General Meeting, we must pay our shareholders a mandatory distribution equal to at least 50% of our adjusted net income. The net income may be capitalized, used to set off losses and/or retained in accordance with the Brazilian corporate law and may not be available for the payment of dividends. Therefore, whether or not you receive a dividend depends on the amount of the mandatory distribution, if any, and whether the Board of Directors and the voting shareholders exercise their discretion to suspend these payments. See “Item 8. Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Dividend Policy” for a more detailed discussion of mandatory distributions. You might be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the preferred shares. In the event of a rights offering or a capital increase which would maintain or increase the proportion of capital represented by preferred shares, preferred shareholders would have preemptive rights to subscribe to newly issued preferred shares. In the event of a capital increase which would reduce the proportion of capital represented by preferred shares, preferred shareholders would have preemptive rights to subscribe for preferred shares in proportion to their shareholdings and for common shares only to the extent necessary to prevent dilution of their interest in the company. Our bylaws establish that the Board of Directors may exclude preemptive rights to the current shareholders, holding either common or preferred shares, in the case of an offering of new shares to be sold on a registered stock exchange or through public subscription. The holders of preferred shares or ADSs may be unable to exercise their preemptive rights in relation to the preferred shares represented by the ADSs, unless we file a registration statement pursuant to the United States 15 Table of Contents Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption from the registration requirements applies. We are not obliged to file registration statements with respect to the preemptive rights and therefore do not assure holders that such a registration will be obtained. If the rights are not registered as required, the depositary will try to sell the preemptive rights held by holder of the ADSs and you will have the right to the net sale value, if any. However, the preemptive rights will expire without compensation to you should the depositary not succeed in selling them. If you exchange the ADSs for preferred shares, you risk losing certain foreign currency remittance and Brazilian tax advantages. The ADSs benefit from the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration, which permits the depositary to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the preferred shares into foreign currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you exchange your ADSs for preferred shares, you will be entitled to rely on the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, you will not be able to remit abroad non-Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under National Monetary Council Resolution 2,689, dated January 26, 2000, known as Resolution 2,689, which entitles certain investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate certificates of registration. If you do not qualify under Resolution 2,689, you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on distributions with respect to the preferred shares. The depositary’s certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by you may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, and additional Brazilian law restrictions applicable to your investment in the ADSs may be imposed in the future. For a more complete description of Brazilian tax regulations, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — Brazilian Tax Consequences.” The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect you. Investing in securities, such as the preferred shares or ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from more developed countries. For the reasons above, investments involving risks relating to Brazil, such as investments in ADSs, are generally considered speculative in nature and are subject to certain economic and political risks, including but not limited to: • changes to the regulatory, tax, economic and political environment that may affect the ability of investors to receive payments, in whole or in part, in respect of their investments; and • restrictions on foreign investment and on repatriation of capital invested. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. This may limit your ability to sell the preferred shares underlying your ADSs at the price and time at which you wish to do so. The São Paulo Stock Exchange, known as BOVESPA, the only Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$723 billion as of December 31, 2006 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$23.0 billion for 2006. In comparison, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of US$25.0 trillion as of December 31, 2006 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$1.4 trillion for 2006. There is also a large concentration in the Brazilian securities market. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 51% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BOVESPA as of December 31, 2006. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 46% of all shares traded on the BOVESPA in 2006. Ultrapar’s average daily trading volume on both stock exchanges in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was R$4.6 million, R$5.5 million and R$3.7 million, respectively. 16 Table of Contents Controls and restrictions on the remittance of foreign currency could negatively affect your ability to convert and remit dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of our preferred shares, Ultrapar’s capacity to make dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Brazilian law provides that whenever there is a serious imbalance in the Brazilian balance of payments, or reasons for believing that there will be a serious imbalance in the future, the Brazilian government can impose temporary restrictions on remittances of income on investments by non-Brazilian investors in Brazil. The probability that the Brazilian government might impose such restrictions is related to the level of the country’s foreign currency reserves, the availability of currency in the foreign exchange markets on the maturity date of a payment, the amount of the Brazilian debt servicing requirement in relation to the economy as a whole, and the Brazilian policy towards the International Monetary Fund, among other factors. We are unable to give assurances that the Central Bank will not modify its policies or that the Brazilian government will not introduce restrictions or cause delays in payments by Brazilian entities of dividends relating to securities issued in the overseas capital markets up to the present. Such restrictions or delays could negatively affect your ability to convert and remit dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of our preferred shares, Ultrapar’s capacity to make dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors and the market price of our preferred shares and the ADSs. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to a disposition of our ADSs. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposition occurs outside or within Brazil. In the event that the disposition of assets is interpreted to include a disposition of our ADSs, this tax law could result in the imposition of withholding taxes on a disposition of our ADSs by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. Due to the fact that Law No. 10,833 has been enacted and no judicial guidance as to its application yet exists, we are unable to predict whether an interpretation applying such tax laws to dispositions of the ADSs between non-residents could ultimately prevail in the courts of Brazil. Substantial sales of our shares or our ADSs could cause the price of our preferred shares or our ADSs to decrease. Shareholders of Ultra S.A. Participações have the right to withdraw and convert common shares owned through Ultra S.A. Participações into our preferred shares as more fully described under “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—Shareholders’ Agreements.” Two other shareholders, who may freely sell their respective shares, hold a substantial portion of our remaining common shares. A sale of a significant number of shares could negatively affect the market value of the preferred shares and ADSs. The market price of our preferred shares and the ADSs could drop significantly if the holders of shares or the ADSs sell them or the market perceives that they intend to sell them. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, U.S. Holders of our preferred shares or our ADSs would be subject to disadvantageous rules under the U.S. tax laws. If we were characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in any year, U.S. holders of our preferred shares or our ADSs could be subject to unfavorable U.S. federal income tax treatment. Although we do not believe that we were a PFIC in 2006 and we do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that our business and activities will not lead to PFIC status for us in the future. PFIC classification is a factual determination made annually and thus is subject to change. See “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a description of the PFIC rules. 17 Table of Contents 