Item 1A RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common shares could decline and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY Our business focuses on the investment in and acquisition of small businesses, which typically have a high rate of failure, may take some time to become profitable and may never become profitable. We have placed emphasis on the investment in and acquisition of small businesses with the objective of developing a network of profitable businesses, most of which will principally serve the small- and medium-sized business market. Early stage businesses historically have a higher rate of failure than larger businesses, and many that do not fail will have only limited profitability. Moreover, profits generated by any of our majority-owned companies or other investments could be offset by losses generated by others. Our profitability resulting from the operations of our businesses may be delayed for the foreseeable future. We have generated and carry goodwill as an asset resulting from some of our acquisition transactions. We can make no assurance that our current or future additional goodwill will not be written down pursuant to applicable accounting standards. A significant write down of a major asset, such as goodwill, could have a material adverse effect on our business, a negative impact on earnings and the value of our common shares. Each of our major investments and affiliated companies may be impacted by a variety of adverse economic, governmental, industrial and internal company factors unique to that business and outside our control. If our investments and affiliated companies do not succeed in overcoming these adverse factors, the value of our assets and the price of our shares would likely fall. In the past few years we have increasingly concentrated our investments in companies participating in small business lending, electronic payment processing, web hosting and insurance. Each of these businesses has numerous risks associated with it and should be read in conjunction with the specific risk factors set forth below. As we have concentrated our investments in companies which are part of our nationwide marketing strategy of providing a variety of services to small- and medium-sized businesses, our exposure and that of our affiliated companies to risks specific to these business lines has increased. We discuss below some of the risks of our significant operations in government-guaranteed small business lending, acting as an independent sales organization in the electronic card processing business, web hosting business and operating as an insurance agency. If we are not successful in implementing this business strategy and developing and marketing our new products and services, our results of operations will be negatively impacted. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. Our rapid revenue growth has placed, and will continue to place, certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. As we continue to grow our business, such growth could require capital, systems development and human resources beyond current capacities. As evidence of our internal growth, on December 31, 2001, we and all of our consolidated and majority-owned affiliates had approximately 20 employees, and on December 31, 2008, we had 284 full-time employees. The increase in the size of our operations may make it more difficult for us to ensure that we execute our present businesses and future strategies. The failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain the resources required for the growth and development of our affiliated companies, they will be highly susceptible to failure, which would directly affect our profitability and value. Early-stage businesses often fail due to their limited capital and human resources. The effective implementation of our business model is dependent upon the ability of our affiliated companies, with assistance from us, to arrange for the managerial capital and other resources which they usually require in order to become and remain profitable. We may not be able to integrate acquired companies into our company and, as we acquire more and larger interests in affiliated companies, our resources available to assist our affiliated companies may be insufficient. We have made strategic acquisitions, and we intend to continue to make acquisitions in accordance with our business plan. Each acquisition involves a number of risks, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention to the assimilation and ongoing assistance with the operations and personnel of the acquired business, which could strain the management resources we have available; • the potential for our affiliated companies to grow rapidly and adversely affect our ability to assist our affiliated companies as intended; • possible adverse effects on our results of operations and cash flows; and • possible inability by us to achieve the intended objective of the acquisition. Any strain on our ability to assist our affiliated companies as intended or to acquire and integrate businesses under our business plan could have a negative impact on our operations, financial results and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated industries in which we operate. Many of the industries in which we operate are highly regulated and we cannot assure you that we or our affiliated companies are, or that we will continue to be, in full compliance with current laws, rules and regulations. If we or our affiliated companies are unable to comply with applicable laws or regulations or if new laws limit or eliminate some of the benefits of our business lines, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including both patentable and non-patentable intellectual property related to our NewTracker™ referral system. We have filed one patent application with the United States Patent office but there can be no assurance that such patent will be granted. To the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. We have several trademarks and service marks which are of material importance to us. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of our efforts, may be necessary to enforce trademarks issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Adverse determinations in any litigation or interference proceeding could subject us to costs related to changing brand names and a loss of established brand recognition. Our affiliated companies depend upon the ability to utilize the Internet for the conduct of a significant portion of their business; disruption to that system could make it impossible for them to continue to conduct their current businesses. Possible disruption to the normal functioning of the Internet through, for example, power failure or terrorist sabotage, could make it impossible for aspects of the lending, electronic payment processing, web hosting and in fact our referral system to function. Each of our businesses has addressed the possibilities of short-term disruptions in Internet availability. However, in the event of a major disruption, and assuming that such disruptions would be long-lived, we would be required to make extensive changes in the way these companies do business. There is no assurance that we will have the time and resources to make these changes. 17 Table of Contents We and our affiliated companies depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and any loss of ability to attract these personnel could adversely affect us. Our success depends upon the ability of our affiliated companies and other companies in which we invest to attract and retain qualified personnel and our ability to supplement those capabilities with our senior management personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If our affiliated companies lose the services of key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of us or one or more of our affiliated companies could be materially adversely affected. It can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. Our business relies heavily on the expertise of our senior management, particularly Messrs. Barry Sloane and Seth A. Cohen, our CEO and CFO, respectively. Mr. Sloane and Mr. Cohen currently serve pursuant to employment agreements which expire on December 31, 2009. The loss of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and it is likely that it will be difficult to find adequate replacements. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive industries in which we operate. We face intense competition in providing web hosting services, processing electronic payments and originating SBA loans, as well as in the other industries in which we or our affiliated companies operate. Low barriers to entry often result in a steady stream of new competitors entering certain of these businesses. Current and potential competitors are or may be better established, substantially larger and have more capital and other resources than we do. If we expand into additional geographical markets, we will face competition from others in those markets as well. Our success also depends on our ability to use effectively our electronic referral and processing system. We have developed an electronic referral and processing system for the applications necessary for the sales of each of our business lines other than web site hosting. This system is critical to our ability to process such business with a low cost advantage and to obtain referrals from our alliance partners. In particular, the ability to access the referral system and to track the progress of a referred customer is a major feature of the perceived attractiveness of our system. If this referral system should develop problems which we cannot address, it would have a material negative impact on our business strategy. A major feature of our business strategy is the development of opportunities for our service and product provider businesses to market to the customers of our other business lines and to the customer bases of our alliance partners. Although our business strategy contemplates the referral of prospects between wholly-owned and partially-owned companies in our network, there is no history of such cross-selling and there can be no assurances that any effort to make referrals across our network of affiliated companies will result in additional revenue opportunities. In order for our referral network to achieve the desired result, each of the constituent companies must have proper incentives and feel comfortable making such introductions, and furthermore, the service provider receiving such referral must properly service such referred client. In addition, our marketing alliances are terminable and, if we make serious errors or fail to produce sufficient revenues for our alliance partners, we are at risk of losing these relationships. The inability of any one of our business segments to service customers adequately referred to it from within our other companies could impair our overall relationship with such customers. A significant benefit of our structure and strategy is the ability to cross market between our SBA, electronic payment processing and other business customers. However, should the business relationship between one of our business segments and customers deteriorate for any reason, such customers may opt to withdraw their business from our other businesses. Such a loss of business could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We rely on information processing systems; the interruption, loss or failure of which would materially and adversely affect our business. Our strategy of cross marketing to customers among our majority-owned subsidiaries will increase this reliance. Our ability to provide business services depends, and will increasingly depend, on our capacity to store, retrieve, process and manage significant amounts of data, and expand and upgrade our information processing capabilities. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment and software systems, telecommunications failure or damage caused by acts of nature or other disruption, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot be certain that our disaster recovery systems or insurance will continue to be available at reasonable prices to cover all our losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide outsourced business services. 18 Table of Contents Dependence on Financial Institutions. Many of our alliance partners are financial institutions, which has been adversely effected by the current credit crisis. Therefore, the continued downturn in the financial services industry could have a material impact on our business. Although we are attempting to diversify our alliance partners to reduce this dependence, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ELECTRONIC PAYMENT PROCESSING BUSINESS We rely on a bank sponsor, which has substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, in order to process bankcard transactions. If the sponsorship is terminated, and we are not able to secure or transfer merchant portfolios to new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our electronic payment processing business. Because we are not a bank, we are unable to belong to and directly access the Visa® and MasterCard® bankcard associations. The Visa® and MasterCard® operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bankcard transactions. We are currently registered with Visa® and MasterCard® through the sponsorship of a bank that is a member of the card associations. If the sponsorship is terminated and we are unable to secure a bank sponsor, we will not be able to process bankcard transactions which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, our agreement with our sponsoring bank gives the sponsoring bank substantial discretion in approving certain elements of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants, the terms of our agreements with merchants, the processing fees that we charge, our customer service levels and our use of independent sales organizations. We cannot guarantee that our sponsoring bank’s actions under these agreements will not be detrimental to us. If we or our processors or bank sponsor fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa® and MasterCard® bankcard associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa® and MasterCard®. Substantially all of the transactions we process involve Visa® or MasterCard®. If we, our bank sponsor or our processors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa® and MasterCard® bankcard associations, Visa® or MasterCard® could suspend or terminate our registration. The termination of our registration or any changes in the Visa® or MasterCard® rules that would impair our registration could require us to stop providing payment processing services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We and our electronic payment processing subsidiaries rely on other card payment processors and service providers. If they no longer agree, or are unable to provide their services, our merchant relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. Our electronic payment processing business relies on agreements with several other large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the merchants we serve. We also rely on third parties to whom we outsource specific services, such as reorganizing and accumulating daily transaction data on a merchant-by-merchant and card issuer-by-card issuer basis and forwarding the accumulated data to the relevant bankcard associations. Many of these organizations and service providers are our competitors. The termination by our service providers of these arrangements with us or their failure to perform these services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the merchants whose accounts we serve, and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. On occasion, we experience increases in interchange and sponsorship fees. If we cannot pass along these increases to our merchants, our profit margins will be reduced. Our electronic payment processing subsidiaries pay interchange fees or assessments to bankcard associations for each transaction we process using their credit, debit and gift cards. From time to time, the bankcard associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks. At their sole discretion, our sponsoring banks have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us. In addition, our sponsoring banks may increase their Visa® and MasterCard® sponsorship fees, all of which are based upon the dollar amount of the payment transactions we process. If we are not able to pass these fee increases along to merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees, our profit margins in this line of business will be reduced. 19 Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure of merchant or cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and business losses. Through our electronic payment processing subsidiaries, we collect and store sensitive data about merchants and cardholders, and we maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including payment, card numbers and cardholder addresses, in order to process the transactions and for fraud prevention and other internal processes. If anyone penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive merchant or cardholder data, we could be subject to liability or business interruption. We cannot guarantee that our systems will not be penetrated in the future. If a breach of our system occurs, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. Similar risks exist with regard to the storage and transmission of such data by our processors. In the event of any such a breach, we may also be subject to a class action lawsuit. Small businesses are less prepared for the complexities of safeguarding cardholder data than their larger counterparts. Since 2005, more than 80% of the instances involving unauthorized access to card data have involved small merchants, according to Visa USA Inc., the largest payment card network. In the event of non compliance by a customer of card industry rules, we could face fines from payment card networks. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover any such fines from such customer. We have potential liability if our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse charge-backs resolved in favor of their customers. If a billing dispute between a merchant and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction is “charged back” to the merchant’s bank and credited to the account of the cardholder. If we or our processing banks are unable to collect the charge-back from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable due to bankruptcy or other reasons to reimburse the merchant’s bank for the charge-back, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder’s bank. Most of our merchants deliver products or services when purchased, so a contingent liability for charge-backs is unlikely to arise, and credits are issued on returned items. However, some of our merchants do not provide services until some time after a purchase, which increases the potential for contingent liability. We face potential liability for customer or merchant fraud. Credit card fraud occurs when a merchant’s customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present transaction) to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant receives authorization for the transaction, the merchant is liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Many of our business customers are small and transact a substantial percentage of their sales over the Internet or by telephone or mail orders. Because their sales are card-not-present transactions, these merchants are more vulnerable to customer fraud than larger merchants and we could experience charge-backs arising from cardholder fraud more frequently with these merchants. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Anytime a merchant is unable to satisfy a charge-back, we are responsible for that charge-back. We have established systems and procedures to detect and reduce the impact of merchant fraud, but we cannot assure you that these measures are or will be effective. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our charge-back liability. Our payment processing systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our business or cause us to lose business and likely increase our costs. We depend on the uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems, software and our processors’ data centers. Defects in these systems or damage to them due to factors beyond our control could cause severe disruption to our business and other material adverse effects on our payment processing businesses. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATION OF A WEBSITE HOSTING BUSINESS NTS operates in a competitive industry in which technological change can be rapid. The website hosting business and its related technology involve a broad range of rapidly changing technologies. NTS’s equipment and the technologies on which it is based may not remain competitive over time, and others may develop superior technologies that render NTS’s products non-competitive without significant additional capital expenditures. 20 Table of Contents The website hosting industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. The website hosting industry is highly competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to intense marketing by providers with similar products and services. Some of our potential competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater market presence as well as greater financial, technical, operational, marketing and other resources and experience than we do. In the event that such a competitor expends significant sales and marketing resources in one or several markets, we may not be able to compete successfully in such markets. We believe that competition will continue to increase, placing downward pressure on prices. Such pressure could adversely affect our gross margins if we are not able to reduce our costs commensurate with such price reductions. In addition, some of our competitors may offer free or substantially reduced services. There can be no assurances that we will remain competitive. Our website hosting business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. Despite precautions taken by NTS against possible failure of its systems, interruptions could result from natural disasters, power loss, the inability to acquire fuel for our backup generators, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. NTS also leases telecommunications lines from local, regional and national carriers whose service may be interrupted. NTS’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that NTS’s insurance will cover all of NTS’s losses or compensate NTS for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that NTS is unable to provide service. Service interruptions due to malicious attacks could result in a loss of revenues and harm NTS’s and CrystalTech’s reputation. On occasion, hackers have managed to penetrate our network infrastructure for a short time before being detected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to successfully address such threats. Any future network shut downs can have a significant negative impact on revenue and cash flows, as well as harm our reputation. Of primary importance to our website hosting customers is the integrity of our infrastructure and the privacy of confidential information. NTS’s infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If a person circumvents NTS’s security measures, he or she could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on NTS’s systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in NTS’s operations. We may be required to make significant additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. The security services that NTS offers in connection with customers’ networks cannot assure complete protection from computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptive problems. The occurrence of these problems may result in claims against NTS or us or liability on our part. These claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in costly litigation and could harm our business and reputation and impair NTS’s ability to attract and retain customers. Our business depends on Microsoft Corporation and others for the licenses to use software as well as other intellectual property in the website hosting business. NTS’s website hosting business is built on a technological platform relying on the Microsoft Windows® products and other intellectual property that NTS currently licenses. As a result, if we are unable to continue to have the benefit of those licensing arrangements or if the products upon which NTS’s platform is built become obsolete, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on the services of a few key personnel in managing our website hosting business, and the loss of one or more of them could materially impair our ability to maintain current levels of customer service and the proper technical operations of our business. We depend upon the continued management of the operations of NTS’s website hosting business by its President and Chief Operating Officer, along with other individuals to supervise NTS’s technical operations and the customer technical service response. If we were to lose the services of one or more of these persons and were unable to replace them expeditiously, our website hosting business could be significantly diminished. 21 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR SMALL BUSINESS FINANCE BUSINESSES We depend on our Lines of Credit. Our SBA lending business is dependent on a Line of Credit with GE Commercial Capital (“GE”) to finance our lending activities, which line is in place until August 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our Credit Line with GE, or that we will be able to negotiate an alternate arrangement. Failure to obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our business, including but not limited to the liquidation of the loan portfolio to pay down the line. If funds from such sale were insufficient to completely pay down the line of credit, the holding company would be responsible for any short fall up to $15 million. In addition, our receivables financing company depends on a line of credit from Wells Fargo Bank, NA (Wells Fargo) which matures in February, 2012. Loss of such line would materially impact the business. Our SBA lending business has been in default under its GE Line of Credit. As of September 30, 2008, we had failed to maintain the “Minimum Senior Charge Coverage Ratio” specified in Section 6.10 of the Credit Agreement, dated August 31, 2005 with GE. As a result, we notified GE of the event of default on November 3, 2008. By letter dated November 19, 2008, GE notified us that it was reducing the maximum availability under our line from $50 million to $35 million but not taking any other action at the time, while reserving all of its rights to do so. On December 11, 2008, we and GE executed an amendment to the Credit Agreement to make certain other adjustments in the terms of the facility and also waive the prior default. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. If GE chooses to terminate the Credit agreement as a result of an event of default, this would have a material adverse impact on our business. GE has indicated to the Company that GE no longer intends to provide credit facilities to finance companies, and therefore there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our Credit Line with GE, or that we will be able to negotiate an alternate arrangement. We may be adversely affected by the regulated environment in which we operate. The activities of our SBA lending business are subject to the supervision and regulation by the federal government, and to a lesser degree, the state governments, as well as various laws and judicial and administrative decisions. Our possible inability to remain in compliance with these multiple requirements could result in the revocation or suspension of our license or the imposition of fines and penalties. We have specific risks associated with small business administration loans. We have generally sold the guaranteed portion of SBA loans in the secondary market. Such sales have resulted in our earning premiums and creating a stream of servicing income. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue originating these loans, or that a secondary market will exist for, or that we will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portions of the SBA loans. In addition, we have experienced a decline in premiums received; there can be no assurance that premiums will remain at the current levels. Since we sell the guaranteed portion of substantially our entire SBA loan portfolio, we incur credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the SBA loans. We share pro rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, our pursuit of remedies against a borrower is subject to SBA approval, and where the SBA establishes that its loss is attributable to deficiencies in the manner in which the loan application has been prepared and submitted, the SBA may decline to honor its guarantee with respect to our SBA loans or it may seek the recovery of damages from us. If we should experience significant problems with our underwriting of SBA loans, such failure to honor a guarantee or the cost to correct the problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Although the SBA has never declined to honor its guarantees with respect to SBA loans made by us since our acquisition of the lender, no assurance can be given that the SBA would not attempt to do so in the future. Curtailment of the government-guaranteed loan programs could cut off an important segment of our business. There can be no assurance that the federal government will maintain the SBA program, or that it will continue to guarantee loans at current levels. If we cannot continue making and selling government-guaranteed loans, we will generate fewer origination fees and our ability to generate gains on sale of loans will decrease. From time-to-time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal budgeted limits and cease to guarantee loans for a stated time period. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans. Also, Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to small business and industrial borrowers of the types that now qualify for government-guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans. 22 Table of Contents Changing interest rates may reduce our income from lending. Fluctuations in general economic conditions and in interest rates may affect customer demand for our loans and other products and services as well as the performance of our existing loan and accounts receivable portfolios. Our lending business may increase during times of falling interest rates and, conversely, decrease during times of significantly higher interest rates. Significant fluctuations in interest rates and loan demand could have a potentially adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. An increase in non-performing assets would reduce our income and increase our expenses. If our level of non-performing assets in our SBA lending and receivable financing businesses rise in the future, it could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Non-performing assets are primarily loans on which borrowers are not making their required payments or receivables for which the customer has not made timely payment. Non-performing assets also include loans that have been restructured to permit the borrower to have smaller payments and real estate that has been acquired through foreclosure of unpaid loans. To the extent that our financial assets are non-performing, we will have less cash available for lending and other activities. Our reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover unexpected losses. Our business depends on the behavior of our customers. In addition to our credit practices and procedures, we maintain a reserve for credit losses on our SBA loans and accounts receivable portfolio which management has judged to be adequate given the loans we originate and receivable we purchase. We periodically review our reserve for adequacy considering current economic conditions and trends, collateral values, charge-off experience, levels of past due loans and non-performing assets, and we adjust our reserve accordingly. However, based on the poor current economic conditions of the recession, along with changes in the credit quality of our customers, our reserves could materially be impacted thus affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by weakness in the residential housing and commercial real estate markets. Weakness in residential home and commercial real estate values could impair our ability to collect on defaulted SBA loans as real estate is pledged in many of our SBA loans as part of the collateral package. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INSURANCE AGENCY BUSINESS We cannot assure that the insurance services we offer will be priced competitively or accepted by our customers. Despite our efforts to design, market and deliver integrated services to our customers, our proposed insurance services may not be widely accepted and we may not be able to compete with other larger and better capitalized providers of such services. We depend on third parties, particularly property and casualty insurance companies, to supply the products marketed by our agents. Our contracts with property and casualty insurance companies typically provide that the contracts can be terminated by the supplier without cause. Our inability to enter into satisfactory arrangements with these suppliers or the loss of these relationships for any reason would adversely affect the results of our new insurance business. Termination of our professional liability insurance policy may adversely impact our financial prospects and our ability to continue our relationships with insurance companies. We must maintain professional liability insurance in connection with the operation of this business. If we lose this insurance, it is unlikely that our relationships with insurance companies would continue. If we fail to comply with government regulations, our insurance agency business could be adversely affected. Our insurance agency business is subject to comprehensive regulation in the various states in which we plan to conduct business. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to satisfy these regulations and to obtain and maintain all required licenses and permits. Our failure to comply with any statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of current statutes and regulations or the expansion of our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than those in which we currently conduct business could have a material adverse effect on us. 23 Table of Contents We do not have any control over the commissions our insurance agency expects to earn on the sale of insurance products which are based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers and the conditions prevalent in the insurance market. Our insurance agency earns commissions on the sale of insurance products. Commission rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. In addition, the insurance industry has been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity and periods of favorable premium levels due to shortages of capacity. We cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in commission rates or premiums or the effect any of these changes will have on the operations of our insurance agency. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPCO BUSINESS The Capco programs and the tax credits they provide are created by state legislation and implemented through regulation, and such laws and rules are subject to possible action to repeal or retroactively revise the programs for political, economic or other reasons. Such an attempted repeal or revision would create substantial difficulty for the Capco programs and could, if ultimately successful, cause us material financial harm. The tax credits associated with the Capco programs and provided to our Capcos’ investors are to be utilized by the investors over a period of time, which is typically ten years. Much can change during such a period and it is possible that one or more states may revise or eliminate the tax credits. Any such revision or repeal could have a material adverse economic impact on our Capcos, either directly or as a result of the Capco’s insurer’s actions. During 2002, a single legislator in Louisiana introduced such a proposed bill, on which no action was taken, and in Colorado in 2003 and 2004 bills to modify (not repeal) its Capco program were introduced; the 2003 Colorado legislation was defeated in a legislative committee. The 2004 Colorado legislation was adopted and as a result, in 2004 our Colorado Capco initiated a lawsuit regarding some of the provisions of these amendments and the implementing regulations which we believe increased the cost of doing business by the Capco, but would have no further material effects. We reached a settlement with the State of Colorado in 2006 after incurring expenses in connection with such action. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to further legislative or regulatory action which might adversely impact our Capco business, or that we will be able to successfully challenge any such action. Because our Capcos are subject to requirements under state law, a failure of any of them to meet these requirements could subject the Capco and our shareholders to the loss of one or more Capcos. Involuntary decertification of all or substantially all of our Capcos would result in a material loss to us and our shareholders. A final involuntary loss of Capco status, referred to as a decertification as a Capco, will result in a loss of the tax credits for us and our insurance company investors. It would also enable the Capco insurer, which has the obligation to make compensatory payments to offset the lost tax credits, to take control of one or more Capcos and manage or liquidate the Capco investments to offset its losses. This would deprive us of the value of the investments and make participation in future Capco programs highly unlikely. In the event of a threat of decertification by a state, the Capco insurer is authorized to assume partial or complete control of a Capco which would likely result in financial loss to the Capco and possibly us and our shareholders. Under the terms of insurance policies purchased by all but one of our Capcos for the benefit of the investors, the Capco insurer is authorized, in the event of a formal written threat of decertification by a state and absent appropriate corrective action by the Capco, to assume partial or complete control of a Capco in order to avoid final decertification and the requirement to pay compensatory interest to the certified investors under the policies. While avoiding final decertification, control by the insurer would result in significant disruption of the Capco’s business and likely result in financial loss to the Capco and our business. Our Capco insurer could fail. The failure of the Capco insurer, which is primarily liable for the repayment of the remaining Capco debt cash payments of $70,450,000, all due in 2009, would require the Capcos to assume this cash repayment obligation of the notes. If the AIG subsidiaries failed to pay the $16,666,000 owed for the Company’s Wisconsin Capco due in October, then the Company might have to sell or finance its Electronic payment processing company to make up the shortfall. 24 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON SHARES Our shares may be delisted. On August 13, 2008, we received a staff deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) indicating that, for the prior 30 consecutive days, the bid price for Newtek’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) (the “Rule”). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), the Company was given 180 calendar days, or until February 9, 2009, to regain compliance with the Rule. The letter also indicated that if the Company did not regain compliance by February 9, 2009, Nasdaq would provide written notification that Newtek’s common stock will be delisted. On October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced that it was suspending the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and a minimum market value of publicly held shares until December 19, 2008, and on December 19, 2008 the suspension was extended until April 20, 2009, at which time the Rule will begin to run again. At the current market price, the Company would not regain compliance, and there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to do so by September 1, 2009. If the Company is unable to regain compliance, it faces delisting. In the event that the common stock is delisted, there can be no assurance that an active public market for our stock can be sustained or that current trading levels can be sustained or not diminished. The application of the “penny stock” rules to our Common Stock could limit the trading and liquidity of the Common Stock, adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our Common Stock is below $5.00 per share, the open-market trading of our Common Stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The “penny stock” rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). These regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, certain brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination regarding such a purchaser and receive such purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations have the effect of limiting the trading activity of the Common Stock, reducing the liquidity of an investment in the Common Stock and increasing the transaction costs for sales and purchases of our Common Stock compared to other securities. Two of our shareholders, one a current, and one a former executive officer, beneficially own approximately 27% of our common shares, and are able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of most shareholder actions. Although there is no agreement or understanding between them, because of their ownership of our shares, Messrs. Sloane and Rubin will be able to have significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation, approval of stock incentive plans and approval of major transactions such as a merger or sale of assets. This could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a change in control and have a negative effect on the market price of our common shares. Future issuances of our common shares or other securities, including preferred shares, may dilute the per share book value of our common shares or have other adverse consequences to our common shareholders. Our board of directors has the authority, without the action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or part of the approximately 19,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Our business strategy relies upon investments in and acquisitions of businesses using the resources available to us, including our common shares. We have made acquisitions during each of the years from 2002 to 2005 involving the issuance of our common shares, and we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future using our common shares. Additionally, we anticipate granting additional options or restricted stock awards to our employees and directors in the future. We may also issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise capital to support our growth, including in connection with possible acquisitions or in connection with purchases of minority interests in affiliated companies or Capcos. Future issuances of our common shares will dilute the percentage of ownership interest of current shareholders and could decrease the per share book value of our common shares. In addition, option holders may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue, without action or vote of our shareholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred shares, meaning that our board of directors may, in its discretion, cause the issuance of one or more series of preferred shares and fix the designations, preferences, powers and relative participating, 25 Table of Contents optional and other rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, including the dividend rate, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and liquidation preference, and to fix the number of shares to be included in any such series. The preferred shares so issued may rank superior to the common shares with respect to the payment of dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or both. In addition, the shares of preferred stock may have class or series voting rights. The authorization and issuance of “blank check” preferred shares could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue preferred shares with rights and preferences set by the board without further shareholder approval. The issuance of shares of this “blank check” preferred shares could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our shareholders. For example, in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, it may be possible for management and the board to impede the attempt by issuing the preferred shares, thereby diluting or impairing the voting power of the other outstanding common shares and increasing the potential costs to acquire control of us. Our board has the right to issue any new shares, including preferred shares, without first offering them to the holders of common shares, as they have no preemptive rights. We have adopted a classified board of directors that could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our shareholders. In 2006, our shareholders approved an amendment to the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for the classification of the Board of Directors into three classes. This makes removal of current management and members of the Board more difficult. It could also have the effect of deterring potential interested parties from initiating proxy contests or from acquiring substantial blocks of our common shares. We know of no other publicly-held company that sponsors and operates Capcos as a material part of its business. As such, there are, to our knowledge, no other companies against which investors may compare our Capco business, operations, results of operations and financial and accounting structures. In the absence of any meaningful peer group comparisons for our Capco business, investors may have a difficult time understanding and judging the strength of our business. This, in turn, may have a depressing effect on the value of our shares. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and New York law place restrictions on our shareholders’ ability to recover from our directors for breaches of their duties. As permitted by New York law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of these provisions and New York law, shareholders have restrictions and limitations upon their rights to recover from directors for breaches of their duties. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we must indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law. 