RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2008. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. This could cause the trading price of our ADS’s to decline and a loss of all or part of your investment. Please refer to the discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 5 of this Annual Report on Form 20-F in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Risks Related to Sify Technologies Limited We have added a number of new lines of business in the last five years, including the operation and licensing of public Internet cafés, as well as the provision of broadband services, security services, e-learning software development services, managed network services and infrastructure management services. It is therefore difficult to evaluate our company based on our historical results of operations. The industry we operate in is still evolving and therefore comparable benchmarks are not readily available. As of March 31, 2008, the Internet penetration in India was only 3% according to figures compiled from Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s, or TRAI’s, Report on Performance of Telecom Industry, March 2008. The risks we face in the developing Internet service market include our ability to: • continue to develop and upgrade our technology; • maintain and develop strategic relationships with business partners; • offer compelling online services and content; and • promptly address the challenges faced by early stage companies, which do not have an experience or performance base to draw on. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address the risks or difficulties described above. Failure to do so could lead to an inability to attract and retain corporate customers for our network/data services and subscribers for our Internet access services as well as the loss of advertising revenues. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we incurred net losses of Rs. 4.696 million and for the fiscal year ended 31 March, 2007 we made net profit of Rs. 240.841 million. We may incur additional losses in the future because our business plan inter alia calls for additional corporate customers and subscribers to maintain profitability and failure to attract such corporate customers may adversely affect our business and result of operations. We may incur operating losses as we expand our services, advertise and promote our brand and respond to competition. Our business plan assumes that businesses in India will demand private network and related services. Our business plan also assumes that an increasing number of consumers and corporate customers in India will be attracted to and use Internet access services, content available on the Internet and other connectivity services offered by us. The loss of major clients, a decrease in the volume of business they provide us or a decrease in the price at which we sell our services to them could adversely affect our revenues. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we may not incur operating losses in the future or we will be able to sustain profitability. We may be required to further modify the rates we charge for our services in response to new pricing models introduced by new and existing competition which would significantly affect our revenues. Our corporate network/data services business faces significant competition from well-established companies, including Bharti Airtel, Tata Communications Limited or TCL, Reliance Infocomm, HCL Infinet, Tata Teleservices and the incumbent government-owned telecommunication companies, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited or BSNL, and Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited or MTNL. A significant number of competitors have entered India’s liberalized Internet service provider industry. New entrants into the national Internet service provider market in India, especially the state run telecommunication companies, may enjoy significant competitive advantages over our company, including greater financial resources, which could allow them to charge prices that are lower than ours in order to attract subscribers. These factors have resulted in periods of significant reduction in actual average selling prices for consumer Internet Service Provider, or ISP, services. We expect the market for Internet access and other connectivity services to remain extremely price competitive. Increased competition may result in operating losses, loss of market share and diminished value in our services, as well as different pricing, service or marketing decisions. Additionally, we believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on factors outside our control, such as the availability of skilled employees in India, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services, and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to their clients’ needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors. 9 We are required to comply with certain conditions imposed by the Government of India or GOI in connection with the National Long Distance/International Long Distance or NLD/ILD licenses issued to Sify Communications Limited (Sify Comm), our subsidiary company, on a continuous basis during the validity of the licence period. On November 21, 2006, Sify Comm executed two License Agreements with the GOI, for NLD / ILD services respectively, which enable Sify Comm to provide VPN services. Sify Comm furnished bank guarantees for Rs.200,000 each for NLD and ILD licenses to GOI. These licenses are valid for an initial period of 20 years and can be renewed for another 10 years at one time, upon request of the licensee made during the 19th year of license. The above licenses have imposed certain conditions to be complied with by Sify Comm on a continued basis to maintain the validity of the license during the license period. The following are the important conditions: • Sify Comm is required to ensure that the foreign holding does not exceed 74% of its outstanding capital, which is the threshold limit of Foreign Direct Investment for the Telecom sector. • The Managing Director, Chief Technical Officer and Chief Financial Officer shall be resident Indian citizens. • Sify Comm shall maintain its net worth as well as paid up capital of Rs.250 million. • Sify Comm shall pay an annual fee at 6% of the Adjusted Gross Revenue to Department of Telecommunications or DOT. • In addition to the above, Sify Comm is required to furnish all information to DOT and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India or TRAI. Our marketing campaign to establish brand recognition and loyalty for the Sify Broadband, Sify Max, Sify and iway brands could be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In order to expand our customer base and increase traffic on our websites, we must establish, maintain and strengthen the Sify Broadband, Sify Max, Sify and iway and other key brands. We plan to continue to incur significant marketing expenditure to establish brand recognition and brand loyalty. If our marketing efforts do not produce a significant increase in business to offset our marketing expenditure, our losses will increase or, to the extent that we are generating profits, our profits will decrease. Furthermore, our Internet portal will only be more attractive to advertisers if we have a large audience of consumers with demographic characteristics that advertisers perceive as favorable. Therefore, we intend to introduce additional and enhanced content, interactive tools and other services and features in the future in an effort to retain our current subscribers and users and attract new ones. Our reputation and brand name could be adversely affected if we are unable to do so successfully. If our efforts to retain our customers through past investment in network infrastructure and ongoing investment in online content offerings and customer and technical support are unsuccessful, our revenues will decrease without a corresponding reduction in costs. Our sales, marketing and other costs of acquiring new customers are substantial, relative to the fees actually derived from these customers. Accordingly, our long-term success depends to a great extent on our ability to retain our existing customers, while continuing to attract new customers. We have invested significant resources in our network infrastructure and continue to invest in online content offerings and in our customer and technical support capabilities to provide high levels of customer service. We cannot be certain, however, that these investments we have made in our network infrastructure and content offerings will maintain or improve subscriber retention. We believe that intense competition from our competitors has caused, and may continue to cause, some of our customers to switch to our competitors’ services. In addition, some new customers use the Internet only as a novelty and do not become consistent users of Internet services, and therefore are more likely to discontinue their service. Any decline in our customer retention rate would likely decrease the revenues generated by our Internet access services division. We may not be able to realize sufficient future revenues to offset our past investment in network infrastructure and our ongoing investment in online content offerings and technical support or achieve positive cash flow or profitability in the future. 10 Despite the company’s best efforts to optimize costs, our future operating results could fluctuate in part because our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term while future revenues are uncertain, and any adverse fluctuations could negatively impact the price of our ADSs. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. A significant portion of our investment and cost base is relatively fixed in the short term. Our revenues for the foreseeable future will depend on many factors, including the following: • the range of corporate network/data services provided by us and the usage thereof by our customers; • the number of subscribers to our ISP services and the prevailing prices charged. • advertising revenue generated by our online portal services. • the timing and nature of any agreements we enter into with strategic partners of our corporate network/data services division; • services, products or pricing policies introduced by our competitors; • capital expenditure and other costs relating to our operations; • the timing and nature of our marketing efforts; • our ability to successfully integrate operations and technologies from any acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations or investments; • the introduction of alternative technologies; and • technical difficulties or system failures affecting the telecommunication infrastructure in India, the Internet generally or the operation of our websites. We plan to continue to expand and develop content and enhance our technology. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. We cannot assure you that our revenues will increase in proportion to the increase in our expenses. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenues shortfall. This could lead to a shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. You should not rely on yearly comparisons of our results of operations as indicators of future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our ADSs may decline. We lack full redundancy for our computer systems and a system failure could prevent us from operating our business for a significant time, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on the Internet and accordingly, depend upon the continuous, reliable and secure operation of Internet servers, related hardware and software and network infrastructure such as lines leased from telecom operators. We have a back-up data facility, but we do not have full redundancy for all of our computer and telecommunications facilities. As a result, failure of key primary or back-up systems to operate properly could lead to a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and violations of our Internet service provider license and contracts with corporate customers. A loss of customers or damage to our reputation would result in a decrease in the number of our subscribers, which would cause a material decrease in revenues. A violation of our Internet service provider license could result in the suspension or termination of that license, which would prevent us from carrying on a significant portion of our operations and materially adversely affect our operating results. Violations of our contracts with corporate customers could result in the termination of these contracts, which would cause a decrease in the revenues generated by our corporate data/network services division. Any of these failures could also lead to a decrease in value of our ADSs, significant negative publicity and litigation. We have at times suffered service outages. We guarantee to a number of our corporate customers that our network will meet or exceed contractual reliability standards, and our Internet service provider license requires that we provide an acceptable level of service quality and that we remedy customer complaints within a specified time period. Our computer and communications hardware are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We do not carry business interruption insurance to protect us in the event of a catastrophe even though such an event could lead to a significant negative impact on our business. 11 Security breaches could damage our reputation or result in liability to us. Our facilities and infrastructure must remain secure, and be perceived by our corporate and consumer customers to be secure, because we retain confidential customer information in our database. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer hacking, computer viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems. If a person circumvents our security measures, he or she could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on our systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to make significant additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. A material security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability to us, and we do not carry insurance that protects us from this kind of loss. The security services that we offer in connection with our business customers’ networks cannot assure complete protection from computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptive problems. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability in such instances, the occurrence of these problems could result in claims against us or liability on our part. These claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in costly litigation and could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to attract and retain customers for our service offerings. Over the past several years we have experienced significant growth, and continuing this pace of growth could put excessive strain on our resources, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. Over the last several years, we have experienced a period of significant revenue growth. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and information systems resources. We will have to implement new operational and financial systems and procedures and controls, expand our office facilities, train and manage our employee base and maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and editorial staff. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we will be unable to implement our strategy, we may lose customers and the quality of our services and products may decline. These factors in turn could negatively affect the growth of our business and harm the value of our shareholders’ investment. We face a competitive labor market for skilled personnel and therefore are highly dependent on our existing key personnel and on our ability to hire additional skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key personnel including our senior management team. Most of our employees are located in India. Each of our employees may voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified technical, marketing and sales personnel. The labor market for skilled employees in India is extremely competitive, and the process of hiring employees with the necessary skills is time consuming and requires the diversion of significant resources. We may not be able to continue to retain or integrate existing personnel or identify and hire additional personnel in the future. The loss of the services of key personnel, especially the unexpected death or disability of such personnel, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could disrupt the implementation of our business strategy, upon which the success of our business depends. The failure to keep our technical knowledge confidential could erode our competitive advantage. Our technical know-how is a significant independent asset, which may not be protected by intellectual property rights such as patents, but is protected only by maintaining its confidentiality. As a result, we cannot be certain that our know-how will remain confidential in the long run. Employment contracts with certain of our employees who have special technical knowledge about our products or our business contain a general obligation to keep all such knowledge confidential and such obligation extends for a period of two years after the termination of employment. In addition to the confidentiality provisions, these employment agreements typically contain non-competition clauses. If either the confidentiality provisions or the non-competition clauses are unenforceable, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of our know-how. In the event that confidential technical information or know-how about our products or business becomes available to third parties or to the public, our competitive advantage over other companies in the wireless based IP/VPN industry could be harmed which could have a material adverse effect on our current business, future prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new or changed laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties and our SEC reporting obligations. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations, our business and reputation may be harmed. We may inadvertently fail to comply with local laws of other countries in connection with the negotiation and execution of operational agreements. As part of our international business, we may negotiate with and enter into contracts with strategic partners, clients, suppliers, employees and other third parties in various countries. We may inadvertently fail to comply with their laws may result in lawsuits or penalties, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. If there is an adverse outcome in the class action litigation that has been filed against us, our business may be harmed. Our Company and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in a securities class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. This action, which is captioned In re Satyam Infoway Ltd. Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, also names as defendants several of the underwriters involved in our initial public offering of American Depositary Shares. This class action is brought on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our ADSs from the time of our Initial Public Offering, or IPO in October 1999 through December 2000. The central allegation in this action is that the underwriters in our IPO solicited and received undisclosed commissions from, and entered into undisclosed arrangements with, certain investors who purchased our ADSs in the IPO and the aftermarket. The complaint also alleges that we violated the United States federal securities laws by failing to disclose in the IPO prospectus that the underwriters had engaged in these allegedly undisclosed arrangements. More than 300 issuers have been named in similar lawsuits. In June 2003, the plaintiffs in the consolidated IPO class action lawsuits currently pending against us and more than 300 other issuers who went public between 1998 and 2000 announced a proposed settlement with us and the other issuer defendants. The proposed settlement provides that the insurers of all settling issuers will guarantee that the plaintiffs recover $1.0 billion from non-settling defendants, including the investment banks who acted as underwriters in those offerings. In the event that the plaintiffs do not recover $1.0 billion, the insurers for the settling issuers will make up the difference. We believe that we have sufficient insurance coverage to cover the maximum amount that we may be responsible for under the proposed settlement, which we estimate to be approximately U.S. $3.9 million. Although the Federal District Court has preliminarily approved the settlement, it is possible that the Federal District Court may not finally approve the settlement in whole or part. We believe that we have adequate legal defences for these actions and that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our Company. We face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, including whether any such transactions can be identified, completed and the other party integrated with our business on favorable terms. We may attempt to grow our business through acquisitions. We are actively seeking opportunities to expand our corporate services business, including through possible acquisition transactions in India, the United States or elsewhere. We may acquire or make investments in other complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into additional strategic partnerships with parties that can provide access to those assets, if appropriate opportunities arise in the future. From time to time, we have had discussions and negotiations with a number of companies regarding our acquiring, investing in or partnering with their businesses, products, services or technologies, and we regularly engage in such discussions and negotiations in the ordinary course of our business. Some of those discussions also contemplate the other party making an investment in our Company. We may not identify a suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates in the future, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our operating results and cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities would dilute the ownership interests of the holders of our ADSs. 13 Our financial results are impacted by the financial results of entities that we do not control. We have a significant, non-controlling minority interest in MF Global Sify Securities India Private Limited (formerly known as Man Financial Sify Securities India Private Limited) that is accounted for under IFRS using the equity method of accounting. Under this method, we generally are obligated to report as “share of profit of equity accounted investee” a pro rata portion of the net income after tax of any such company in our statement of operations even though we do not control the other company, subject to limitations in the case of losses that exceed our cost of investment. Thus, our reported results of operations can be significantly increased or decreased depending on the results of MF Global Sify Securities India Private Limited or other companies in which we may make similar investments even though we may have only a limited ability to influence these activities. Our inter-city network is leased from other service providers and is dependent on their quality and availability. We have provided inter-city connectivity for our wireless-based IP/VPN business through lease arrangements rather than through capital investment in connectivity assets. Our ability to offer high quality telecommunications services depends, to a large extent, on the quality of the networks maintained by other operators, and their continued availability, neither of which is under our control. However, the abundance of supply of inter-city connectivity provides us with the ability of switching to companies offering better services. Although we always use more than one service provider where required, there can be no assurance that this dependence on external parties would not affect our network availability. A significant majority of the iway cybercafés are franchised operations that we do not operate or control. We also provide Internet access services through a network of Cable Television Operators, or CTOs, whom we do not control. As of March 31, 2008, 3,887 cybercafés, representing substantially all of the iway cafes, were franchised by our company. Broadband Internet access to homes was provided through a network of about 1,966 CTOs. Our relationships with franchisees and CTOs are subject to a number of special risks. For example, we do not operate or control our franchisees or CTOs, and they may not meet their obligations under our agreements with them. The failure of a franchisee or CTO to provide quality services to its customers could result in end user dissatisfaction with our company. We may become involved in disputes with our franchisees or CTOs, which may result in litigation or the termination of one or more of our agreements. Our franchisees or CTOs could attempt to organize themselves into unions in order to negotiate more favorable terms in our agreements. Any failure to continue our relationships with our franchisees or CTOs on favorable terms could reduce the size of our market share for Internet access in India and decrease the revenues generated by our Internet access services division. Our company does not provide any financial support or guarantee to the franchisees. Damage to the relationship with our cybercafe franchisees may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The legal system in India does not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. We hold no patents, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our services or proprietary information. In addition, the laws of India do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination of our services. For example, the legal processes to protect service marks in India are not as effective as those in place in the United States. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time-consuming and costly. We could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and the content and functionality of our websites or other service offerings overlap with competitive offerings. Defending against these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our company. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 14 Our current infrastructure and its scalability may not accommodate increased use while maintaining acceptable overall performance. Currently, only a relatively limited number of customers use our corporate network, our Internet service provider services and our Internet portal. We must continue to add to our network infrastructure to accommodate additional users, increasing transaction volumes and changing customer requirements. We may not be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our websites or upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. Our systems may not accommodate increased use while maintaining acceptable overall performance. Service lapses could cause our users to use the online services of our competitors, and numerous customer defections may adversely affect our results of operations. Success of the acquired on line travel business in the United States depends on various factors, and to a large extent, beyond our control. The success of our online travel and travel related business, through our acquisition of Globe Travels depends on various factors, among other things: • How quickly we integrate an airlines’ on line platform for ticketing; • Our ability to quickly improve our online sales in the United States; • The growth of the tourism and the hospitality industry; • The threat of terrorism and outbreak of any epidemic; • Lost revenue from credit card fraud. If the above risks are not addressed suitably, it may impact the volume and profitability of this segment of our business. We do not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. It is possible that we may not be able to pay cash dividend in the near future. Accordingly, investors must rely only on the price appreciation of the ADS to realise a positive return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividend should not purchase our ADS. Risks Related to the ADSs and Our Trading Market The interests of our significant shareholder, Infinity Capital Ventures, L.P., USA (Infinity Capital) may differ from your interests. We believe that Infinity Capital owns approximately 42% of our outstanding equity capital. Mr. Raju Vegesna, serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. P.S. Raju serves on our Board of Directors as a nominee of Infinity Capital. As a result, Infinity Capital will be able to exercise significant influence over many matters requiring approval by our Board of Directors and/or our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a sale of our Company. Under Indian law, a simple majority is sufficient to control all shareholder action except for those items, which require approval by a special resolution. If a special resolution is required, the number of votes cast in favor of the resolution must not be less than three times the number of votes cast against it. Examples of actions that require a special resolution include: • altering our Articles of Association; • issuing additional shares of capital stock, except for pro rata issuances to existing shareholders; • commencing any new line of business; and • commencing a liquidation. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of Infinity Capital, or a subsequent purchaser of the shares owned by Infinity Capital, could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders or holders of our ADSs. Infinity Capital could delay or prevent a change of control of our company even if a transaction of that sort would be beneficial to our other shareholders, including the holders of our ADSs. 15 Holders of ADSs are restricted in their ability to exercise preemptive rights under Indian law and thereby may suffer future dilution of their ownership position. Under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, a public company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless the preemptive rights have been waived by adopting a special resolution by holders, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, holding not less than three times the number of votes, if any, cast against the resolution U.S. holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless approval of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of India is obtained and a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is effective with respect to the rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any given registration statement as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of our ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors that we deem appropriate to consider at the time the decision must be made. We may elect not to file a registration statement related to preemptive rights otherwise available by law to our shareholders. In the case of future issuance, the new securities may be issued to our depositary, which may sell the securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. The value, if any, our depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities cannot be predicted. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in our company would be reduced. Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights and the information provided with respect to shareholder meetings. As a holder of ADSs, you generally have the right under the deposit agreement to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting rights for the equity shares represented by your ADSs. At our request, the depositary bank will mail to you any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the depositary bank timely receives voting instructions from a holder of ADSs, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by the holder’s ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the depositary bank to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure you that you will receive voting materials in time to enable you to return voting instructions to the depositary bank in a timely manner. Under Indian law, subject to the presence in person at a shareholder meeting of persons holding equity shares representing a quorum, all resolutions proposed to be approved at that meeting are voted on by a show of hands unless a shareholder present in person and holding at least 10% of the total voting power or on which an aggregate sum of not less than Rs.50,000 has been paid-up, at the meeting demands that a poll be taken. Equity shares not represented in person at the meeting, including equity shares underlying ADSs for which a holder has provided voting instructions to the depositary bank, are not counted in a vote by show of hands. As a result, only in the event that a shareholder present at the meeting demands that a poll be taken will the votes of ADS holders be counted. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted on a poll. Accordingly, you may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our equity shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the SEC’s proxy rules, which regulate the form and content of solicitations by United States-based issuers of proxies from their shareholders. To date, our practice has been to provide advance notice to our ADS holders of all shareholder meetings and to solicit their vote on such matters through the depositary, and we expect to continue this practice. The form of notice and proxy statement that we have been using does not include all of the information that would be provided under the SEC’s proxy rules. The market price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our ADSs has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. Many factors could cause the market price of our ADSs to rise and fall. Some of these factors include: • perception of the level of political and economic stability in India; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcement of technological innovations; • conditions or trends in the corporate network/data services, Internet and electronic commerce industries; 16 • the competitive and pricing environment for corporate network/data services and Internet access services in India and the related cost and availability of bandwidth; • the perceived attractiveness of investment in Indian companies; • acquisitions and alliances by us or others in the industry; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts; • market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole; • introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in the market valuations of other Internet service companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • our failure to integrate successfully our operations with those of any acquired companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly Internet-related companies, have been and continue to be extremely volatile with negative sentiment prevailing. Volatility in the price of our ADSs may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We may not be able to maintain our Nasdaq Global Market listing. In order to maintain the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, we are required to comply with, or obtain an exemption from, the continuing listing requirements of Nasdaq, including the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. These requirements have and will continue to impose significant additional substantive and administrative requirements on all public companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, including foreign private issuers. We do not know whether we will be able to maintain our Nasdaq Global Market listing in the future. An active or liquid market for the ADSs is not assured. We cannot predict the extent to which an active, liquid public trading market for our ADSs will continue to exist. Although ADS holders are entitled to withdraw the equity shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, there is no public market for our equity shares in India or the United States. The loss of liquidity could increase the price volatility of our ADSs. The future sales of securities by our company or existing shareholders may reduce the price of our ADSs. We believe Infinity Capital holds approximately 42% of our outstanding equity capital. Any significant sales of our equity shares or ADSs or a perception that such sales may occur might reduce the price of our ADSs and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We may issue additional equity shares to raise capital and to fund acquisitions and investments, and the parties to any such future transactions could also decide to sell them. Forward-looking statements contained in this report may not be realized. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risks faced by us described above and elsewhere in this report. We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results. 17 Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies We are incorporated in India, and a significant majority of our assets and employees are located in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ADSs will be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, Government of India policies, including taxation policies, as well as political, social and economic developments affecting India. Political instability in India and around the world could halt or delay the liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. During the past decade, the Government of India has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. The Government of India has changed six times since 1996, including in May 2004. The rate of economic liberalization, specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could also change. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Conflicts in South Asia and terrorist attacks in the United States, South Asia and around the world could adversely affect the economy and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and political and economic tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our ADSs, the market for our services, and our results of operations. We are subject to foreign investment restrictions under Indian law that limit our ability to attract foreign investors which, together with the lack of a public market for our equity shares, may adversely impact the value of our ADSs. Currently, there is no public trading market for our equity shares in India or elsewhere nor can we assure you that we will take steps to develop one. Our equity securities are only traded on Nasdaq through the ADSs as described in this report. Under prior Indian laws and regulations, our depositary could not accept deposits of outstanding equity shares and issue ADRs evidencing ADSs representing such equity shares without prior approval of the Government of India. The Reserve Bank of India has announced fungibility regulations permitting, under limited circumstances, the conversion of ADSs to equity shares and the reconversion of equity shares to ADSs provided that the actual number of ADSs outstanding after such reconversion is not greater than the original number of ADSs outstanding. If you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you will not be able to trade those equity shares on any securities market and, under present law, likely will not be permitted to reconvert those equity shares to ADSs. If in the future a market for our equity shares is established in India or another market outside of the United States, those shares may trade at a discount or premium to the ADSs. Under current Indian regulations and practice, the approval of the Reserve Bank of India is required for the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India as well as for renunciation of rights to a resident of India, unless the sale of equity shares underlying the ADSs is through a recognized stock exchange or in connection with the offer made under the regulations regarding takeovers. Since exchange controls still exist in India, the Reserve Bank of India will approve the price at which the equity shares are transferred based on a specified formula, and a higher price per share may not be permitted. Holders who seek to convert the rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and repatriate that foreign currency from India will have to obtain Reserve Bank of India approval for each transaction. We cannot assure you that any required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency can be obtained. Because we operate our business in India, exchange rate fluctuations may affect the value of our ADSs independent of our operating results. The exchange rate between the rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Depreciation of the rupee will result in higher expenses to our company for the purchase of capital equipment, such as servers, routers, modems and other telecommunications and computer equipment, which is generally manufactured in the U.S. In addition, our market valuation could be materially adversely affected by the devaluation of the rupee if U.S. investors analyze our value based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of our financial condition and results of operations. Appreciation of the rupee against the U.S. dollar will result in foreign exchange losses to the extent we hold excess cash in U.S. dollar-denominated assets. 18 The Government of India may change its regulation of our business or the terms of our license to provide Internet access services, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and VPN services without our consent, and any such change could decrease our revenues and/or increase our costs, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our business is highly regulated as per extant telecom policy of the Government of India. Our ISP license issued in the year 1998 runs for a term of 15 years. If the Company is unable to renew the ISP license for any reason, the Company will not be able to carry on the said business beyond license term, which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. The GOI has right to revoke, terminate or suspend or take over entire operations for reasons such as national security or similar reasons without compensation to the Company. In view of increasing cyber threats and attacks, the GOI may require telecom licensees (including ISPs) at their costs to provide monitoring facility across its network, and facilities for capture and retention of data in terms of traffic flow, usage details, etc. This would result in significant increase in costs and possible lesser usage due to perceived invasion of privacy by customers. Certain government departments have been making queries whether use of Session Initiation Protocol, or SIP, terminal to make calls to phones abroad is permissible within ISP license. The Company believes that such overseas phone calls are permitted, since, SIP terminal is a “computer” as defined in Information Technology Act, 2000. In case this view is not found favour by authorities, the Company may have to make significant investment as capital outlay in SIP terminals to make it a PC-equivalent. The Government of India has brought out new guidelines for grant of licence for operating internet services, which is applicable to the new entrants. The Government is also likely to bring out new guidelines for grant of licence for operating internet services for the existing licence holders, which may be difficult to comply with by us and any such change could decrease our revenues and/or increase our costs, which would adversely affect our operating results. The Company’s business is regulated as per the present policy of the Government of India. The Company’s ISP license issued in the year 1998 runs for a term of 15 years. If the Company is unable to renew the ISP license for any reason, the Company will not be able to carry on the said business beyond license term, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In August 2007, the Government of India has issued new guidelines for grant of licence for operating internet services applicable to the new entrants. In terms of the guidelines, inter alia, a) the applicant must be an Indian Company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, b) Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) shall be 74% including indirect investment, c) Chairman, Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), if held by foreign nationals, require special approval from the Government and certain other financial and technical conditions. We believe that the Government of India is likely to release similar guidelines for the existing licence holders also. When the Government issues such guidelines, the company has to initiate steps to bring down the FDI limit to 74% within the stipulated time apart from complying with other guidelines for the continuing the business of internet service. We may not be able to comply with certain guidelines which may adversely affect our revenues and/or increase our costs, which would adversely affect our operating results. Changes in Indian income taxes will increase our tax liability and decrease any profits we might have in the future. The statutory corporate income tax rate in India was 30% during fiscal 2008 and was subject to a 10% surcharge and 3% education cess, resulting in an effective tax rate of 33.99%. For fiscal year 2009, the statutory corporate income tax rate is still 30% and subject to a 10% surcharge and 3% education cess, resulting in an effective tax rate of 33.99%. We cannot assure you that the surcharge will be in effect for a limited period of time or that additional surcharges will not be implemented by the Government of India. The recent amendments to the Indian Income-tax Act, 1961 has resulted in the introduction of a fringe benefits tax, or FBT, that would be levied on employers. Under this FBT, employers would be required to pay a tax of 30% exclusive of applicable surcharge and cess on the taxable value of the fringe benefits or privileges that are provided or deemed to be provided to employees on a collective, rather than individual, basis. The impact of FBT for the year ended March 31, 2008 amounting to Rs. 16.91 million is included under selling and administration expenses. 19 Risks Related to the Internet Market in India Our success will depend in large part on the increased use of the Internet by consumers and businesses in India. However, our ability to exploit the Internet service provider and other data service markets in India is inhibited by a number of factors. If India’s limited Internet usage does not grow substantially, our business may not succeed. The success of our business depends on the acceptance of the Internet in India, which may be slowed or halted by high bandwidth costs and other technical obstacles in India. Bandwidth, the measurement of the volume of data capable of being transported in a communications system in a given amount of time, remains very expensive in India, especially when compared to bandwidth costs in the United States. Although prices for bandwidth in India have declined recently, they are high due to, among other things, capacity constraints and lack of competition. The limited installed personal computer base in India limits our pool of potential customers and restricts the amount of revenues that our Internet access services division may generate. The market penetration rates of personal computers and online access in India are far lower than such rates in the United States. Alternate methods of obtaining access to the Internet, such as through set-top boxes for televisions, are currently not popular in India. There can be no assurance that the number or penetration rate of personal computers in India will increase rapidly or at all or that alternate means of accessing the Internet will develop and become widely available in India. The high cost of accessing the Internet in India limits our pool of potential customers and restricts the amount of revenues that our Internet access services division might generate. The growth of our consumer services is limited by the cost to Indian consumers of obtaining the hardware, software and communications links necessary to connect to the Internet in India. If the costs required to access the Internet do not significantly decrease, most of India’s population will not be able to afford to use our services. The failure of a significant number of additional Indian consumers to obtain affordable access to the Internet may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business depends on the acceptance and growth of electronic commerce in India, which is uncertain, and, to a large extent, beyond our control. Many of our existing and proposed services are designed to facilitate electronic commerce in India, although there is relatively little electronic commerce currently being conducted in India. Demand and market acceptance for these services by businesses and consumers, therefore, are highly uncertain. Many Indian businesses have deferred purchasing Internet access and deploying electronic commerce initiatives for a number of reasons, including the existence or perception of, among other things: • inconsistent quality of service; • the need to deal with multiple and frequently incompatible vendors; • inadequate legal infrastructure relating to electronic commerce in India; • a lack of security of commercial data, such as credit card numbers; and • low number of Indian companies accepting credit card numbers over the Internet. If usage of the Internet in India does not increase substantially and the legal infrastructure and network infrastructure in India are not developed further, we are not likely to realize any benefits from our investment in the development of electronic commerce services. 20 Risks Related to the Internet We may be liable to third parties for information retrieved from the Internet. Because users of our Internet service provider service and visitors to our websites may distribute our content to others, third parties may sue us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury or other matters. We could also become liable if confidential information is disclosed inappropriately. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services in the United States and Europe. Others could also sue us for the content and services that are accessible from our websites through links to other websites or through content and materials that may be posted by our users in chat rooms or bulletin boards. We do not carry insurance to protect us against these types of claims, and there is no precedent on Internet service provider liability under Indian law. Further, our business is based on establishing our network as a trustworthy and dependable provider of information and services. Allegations of impropriety, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. The success of our strategy depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to use leading technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop or otherwise acquire new services that meet changing customer requirements. The markets for our service are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and frequent new service introductions. We may not successfully identify new opportunities and develop and bring new services to market in a timely manner. Our business may not be compatible with delivery methods of Internet access services developed in the future. We face the risk that fundamental changes may occur in the delivery of Internet access services. Currently, Internet services are accessed primarily by computers and are delivered by modems using telephone lines. As the Internet becomes accessible by cellular telephones, personal data assistants, television set-top boxes and other consumer electronic devices, and becomes deliverable through other means involving digital subscriber lines, coaxial cable or wireless transmission mediums, we will have to develop new technology or modify our existing technology to accommodate these developments. Our pursuit of these technological advances, whether directly through internal development or by third-party license, may require substantial time and expense. We may be unable to adapt our Internet service business to alternate delivery means and new technologies may not be available to us at all. We provide wireless connectivity on the 5.7 GHz spectrum allotted to us by the Wireless Planning Commission. The spectrum allocation may be inconsistent with industry standards. The current capacity may be insufficient to offer a breadth of services. The Government may issue instructions to release the spectrum that we hold. High cost of spectrum acquisition may be inconsistent with our revenue and cost models. We may not keep up with the pace of the change that takes place in wireless technologies. The launch of DTH (Direct to Home) relay by service providers such as Tata Teleservices, Reliance, Dishnet and Sun TV may weaken the presence of Cable TV Operators (CTOs) in providing connectivity to homes through cables. Due to such competition, we may lose business from the CTOs for providing internet services through cables. Our service offerings may not be compatible with industry standards developed in the future. Our ability to compete successfully depends upon the continued compatibility and inter-operability of our services with products and architectures offered by various vendors. Although we intend to support emerging standards in the market for Internet access, industry standards may not be established and, if they become established, we may not be able to conform to these new standards in a timely fashion or maintain a competitive position in the market. The announcement or introduction of new services by us or our competitors and any change in industry standards could cause customers to deter or cancel purchases of existing services. 21 