ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and into 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by low levels of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. These market conditions have adversely affected our business and financial condition as customers or potential customers liquidate or consolidate, our ability to borrow money is restricted, the price of our common stock declines and capital and margin requirements for our business lines increase. In addition, our operations may suffer to the extent that ongoing market volatility causes individuals and institutional traders and other market participants to curtail or forego trading activities. In 2008 and 2009, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values continued to decline and access to liquidity continued to be very limited through the first half of 2009. Overall, during fiscal 2008, and the first three quarters of 2009, the market environment was adverse for our business. Although market conditions improved during the fourth quarter of 2009 and in January of 2010 when compared to the year-earlier periods, there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve in the near term. Therefore, our results of operations may continue to be adversely affected. Because competition for the services of brokers is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain highly skilled brokers, which could adversely impact our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide high-quality brokerage services and maintain long-term relationships with our customers depends, in large part, upon our brokers. As a result, we must attract and retain highly qualified brokerage personnel. In recent years, we have significantly grown the number of brokers in our business through new hires and acquisitions of existing businesses, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Competition for the services of brokers is intense, especially for brokers with experience in the specialized markets in which we participate or we may seek to enter. If we are unable to hire or retain highly qualified brokers, including retaining those employed by businesses we acquire in the future, we may not be able to enter new brokerage markets or develop new products. If we lose one or more of our brokers in a particular market in which we participate, our revenues may decrease and we may lose market share in that particular market. In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified brokers could result in substantial additional costs. We have been and are currently a party to, or otherwise involved in, several litigations and arbitrations involving competitor claims in connection with employee hires and/or departures. We may also pursue our rights through litigation when competitors hire our employees who are under contract with us. We believe such proceedings are common in our industry due to its highly competitive nature. An adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of these claims, we generally incur significant expenses and substantial management time in dealing with these claims. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to attract new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, or if we incur increased costs associated with attracting and retaining personnel (such as litigations, arbitrations, sign-on or guaranteed bonuses or forgivable loans), our revenues and expenses could be adversely impacted and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures or hire brokers for new or existing brokerage desks, which could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs and could dilute the common stock owned by our stockholders. We may also face competition in our acquisition strategy, which may limit our number of acquisitions and growth opportunities. We have explored a wide range of strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures with other brokers and with other companies that have interests in businesses in which there are brokerage or other strategic opportunities. For example, in December 2007, the Company together with other leading financial institutions announced the establishment of a new joint venture, ELX. We also may seek to hire brokers for new or existing brokerage desks. In addition, from time to time, we have and we expect to continue to evaluate and potentially pursue possible strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or broker hires. These acquisitions or new hires may be necessary in order for us to enter into or develop new product and geographic areas. Strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and new hires involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and product development and distraction of management; • difficulty retaining and integrating personnel and integrating financial and other systems; • the necessity of hiring additional management and other critical personnel and integrating them into current operations; • litigation and/or arbitration associated with hiring brokerage personnel; • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • potential dependence upon, and exposure to liability, loss or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control; • potential unfavorable reaction to our strategic alliance, acquisition or joint venture strategy by our customers; • to the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, exposure to political, economic, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities; • the upfront costs associated with recruiting brokerage personnel, including those costs associated with establishing a new brokerage desk; • conflicts or disagreements between any strategic alliance or joint venture partner and us; and • exposure to additional liabilities of any acquired business, strategic alliance or joint venture. In addition, we expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisitions and growth opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or manage profitably additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. As a result of these risks and challenges, we may not realize any anticipated benefits from strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or new hires, and such strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or new hires may in fact materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures or the hiring of new brokerage personnel may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute your ownership of us or may involve litigation. 34 Table of Contents We face strong competition from brokerages, broker-dealers, financial services firms and exchanges, many of which have greater market presence, marketing capabilities and technological and personnel resources than we have, which could lead to pricing pressures that could adversely impact our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The brokerage and financial services industries are intensely competitive, and are expected to remain so. We primarily compete with four major, diversified inter-dealer brokers and financial intermediaries. These inter-dealer brokers are ICAP plc, Tullett Prebon plc, GFI Group Inc. and Compagnie Financière Tradition (which is majority owned by Viel & Cie), all of which are currently publicly traded companies. Other inter-dealer broker and financial intermediary competitors include a number of smaller, private firms that tend to specialize in specific product areas or geographies. We also compete with companies that provide alternative products, such as contracts traded on futures exchanges, and trading processes, such as the direct dealer-to-dealer market for government securities and stock exchange markets for corporate equities and other securities. We increasingly compete with exchanges for the execution of trades in certain products, mainly in derivatives such as futures, options and options on futures. Certain exchanges have made and will likely continue to make attempts to move certain OTC-traded products to exchange-based execution. Some of our competitors have greater market presence, marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we have and, as a result, our competitors may be able to: • develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly than we can; • adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • identify and consummate acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively than we can; • hire our brokers and other key employees; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services; • more effectively leverage existing relationships with customers and strategic partners or exploit more recognized brand names to market and sell their services; • provide a lower cost structure and lower commissions; • provide access to trading in products or a range of products that at any particular time we do not offer; and • develop services similar to our new services that are preferred by our customers. In addition, new competitors may emerge and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of our existing product lines. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competition for brokerage transactions also has resulted in substantial commission discounting by brokers that compete with us for our brokerage business. Further discounting could adversely impact our revenues and margins and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for hiring brokers of various securities and financial products is also highly competitive and, from time to time, may result in litigation and/or arbitration. Our operations also include the sale of pricing and transactional information produced by our brokerage operations to securities information processors and/or vendors. There is a high degree of competition in pricing and transaction reporting products and services, and such businesses may become more competitive in the future. Competitors and customers of our brokerage businesses have together and individually offered market information services in competition with those offered and expected to be offered by us. 35 Table of Contents Consolidation in the brokerage, exchange and financial services industries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because we may not be able to compete successfully. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the brokerage, exchange and financial services industries, resulting in increased competition. Further, in recent months, credit conditions worsened considerably and the landscape of the U.S. financial services industry changed dramatically. During 2008 and 2009, many major U.S. financial institutions consolidated. For example, Bear Stearns was acquired by J.P. Morgan Chase, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declared bankruptcy, Bank of America Corp. acquired Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia. These and other financial services firms are our customers. Continued consolidation in the financial services industry and especially among our customers could lead to the exertion of additional pricing pressure by our customers, impacting the commissions we generate from our brokerage services. Further, the recent consolidation among exchange firms, and expansion by these firms into derivative and other non-equity trading markets, will increase competition for customer trades and place additional pricing pressure on commissions and spreads. These developments have increased competition from firms with potentially greater access to capital resources than we have. Finally, consolidation among our competitors other than exchange firms could result in increased resources and product or service offerings for our competitors. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As we continue to develop our system and infrastructure and expand our brand recognition and customer base through increased hiring of brokers and other personnel, we may incur losses in the future. If our revenues do not increase sufficiently, or even if our revenues increase but we are unable to manage our expenses, we may not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. Our liquidity and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by recent U.S. and international markets and economic conditions. Liquidity is essential to our business. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our customers and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in recent months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. In particular, our cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. As a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. To the extent we are not able to access the capital markets on acceptable terms in the future, we may seek to raise funding and capital through equity issuance or other means. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with each other or with us. Current cash balances substantially exceed the sum of upcoming debt maturities plus unsecured letters of credit. All of the cash on the balance sheet, some of which is held at regulated broker dealer subsidiaries, would not be available to meet these potential liquidity needs. We have been evaluating our options with respect to the $150 million of notes payable that mature on April 1, 2010. These options have included, but are not limited to, repayment at maturity with existing available cash resources, raising external debt or equity capital, including 36 Table of Contents convertible debt, to refinance some or all of the maturing notes, entering into an arms’ length borrowing arrangement with Cantor or another party to pay off some or all of the maturing notes, and/or various combinations of the above. On March 12, 2010, our Audit Committee authorized us or our subsidiaries to sell $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.75 % Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 to Cantor or one of its affiliates, which may include up to $25,000,000 to Howard W. Lutnick and/or his related designees. On March 16, 2010, we executed an agreement with respect to this transaction. We and our affiliates intend to use the proceeds to repay at maturity our outstanding $150.0 million notes due April 1, 2010. Although we expect this transaction to close on or around April 1, 2010, there is no guarantee that the closing will occur on that date or at all. As result of the recent credit and liquidity crisis in the world financial markets, beginning in September 2008, the FICC substantially increased its clearing margin requirements with respect to our and other customers’ accounts. Following the merger of eSpeed and BGC Partners on April 1, 2008, we received regulatory approval from FINRA for self-clearing our own securities transactions, and we have begun self-clearing transactions in mortgage-backed securities, equities, corporate and other DTC-eligible bonds and repurchase agreements. However, we have not begun to clear our own transactions in U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government Agency securities and there is no assurance at what point we will be able to do so. Accordingly, since the closing of the merger, BGC Partners has continued to receive from Cantor and its affiliates certain clearing services in the U.S. pursuant to its pre-existing clearing agreement (“Clearing Services”). These Clearing Services have been provided since April 1, 2008 in exchange for payment by BGC Partners of third-party clearing costs and allocated costs, and margin requirements and clearing deposits have been posted by Cantor with the FICC on BGC Partners’ behalf. On November 5, 2008, BGC Partners entered into an Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Cantor. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, so long as Cantor is providing Clearing Services to BGC Partners, Cantor shall be entitled to request from BGC Partners, and BGC Partners shall post as soon as practicable, cash or other property acceptable to Cantor in the amount reasonably requested by Cantor under the Agreement. The amounts requested shall reflect Cantor’s reasonable determination of its or its affiliates’ required capital requirements in connection with the Clearing Services and/or potential additional funds which may be required to replace Cantor funds being otherwise utilized to post capital requirements for the benefit of BGC Partners. To date, no amounts have been requested by Cantor. BGC Partners relies upon Cantor to provide Clearing Services and, in the absence of the Agreement, it would have to secure an alternative third-party clearing arrangement to provide such Clearing Services, which might be at higher rates or on less favorable terms. We intend to continue this relationship with Cantor. Accordingly, we expect that Cantor will continue to post clearing capital on our behalf and we will either post clearing capital with Cantor as requested under the Agreement or continue to invest our excess via reverse repurchase agreements or in other overnight investments. In the absence of such an arrangement, BGC Partners may be required to raise additional capital, borrow funds or take other action to meet the capital requirements in connection with the clearing of these transactions. The increased capital requirements required in connection with the clearing of our securities transactions could have a material adverse impact on BGC Partners’ ability to make distributions, repurchase its stock or affect strategic acquisitions or other opportunities. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulations or laws or by changes in other regulations or laws or the application thereof. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. Proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. We are unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents We are also affected by the policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the United States and other governments. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. Additionally, recent events in the over the counter derivatives markets have led to numerous calls by the U.S. Executive Branch, European Union (“E.U.”) and other countries’ officials, legislators and regulators for increased oversight and possible regulation of the OTC markets. In particular, portions of the credit default swap market, among other derivative markets, may be required to be centrally cleared. While the situation is dynamic, the U.S. Executive Branch White Paper contemplates legislation requiring trading through an exchange or an electronic platform. In the event that the U.S. government, E.U. or other countries’ authorities ultimately were to mandate central clearing or exchange trading for large portions of the OTC markets and we were unable to arrange for the execution of transactions for us and for our customers through those required forums, or to do so on a competitive basis, our business would be negatively impacted. Further, the administrations of certain European countries have instituted a series of changes to tax law, including an excise tax on certain compensation payments that, if applicable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the current U.S. administration has proposed a series of changes to tax law, some of which could apply to us. It is not possible to predict if any of these new provisions will be enacted or, if they are, what form they would take. It is possible that one or more of such provisions could negatively impact our costs and our effective tax rate, which would affect our after-tax earnings. If any of such changes to tax law were implemented and/or deemed to apply to us, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to attract and retain executives and brokers. Defaults by Cantor or another large financial institution could adversely affect us or financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. For example, we rely on Cantor as our clearing agent for certain securities transactions, primarily U.S. government securities, while we self-clear certain other products. A default by one of our customers could lead to liquidity concerns in our business and further, to the extent that Cantor, or another entity that clears for us, has difficulty meeting capital requirements or otherwise meeting its obligations, we may need to provide our own liquidity. See “Our liquidity and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by recent U.S. and international markets and economic conditions.” As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. Similarly, our vendors, including insurance companies and other providers, are subject to normal business risks as well as risks related to the recent U.S. and international market and economic conditions. Failure of any of these vendor institutions could also adversely affect us. If we are unable to identify and exploit new market opportunities, our revenues may decline and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As more participants enter the markets in which we operate, the resulting competition often leads to lower commissions. This may result in a decrease in revenues in a particular market even if the volume of trades we handle in that market increases. As a result, our strategy is to broker more trades and increase market share in existing markets and to seek out new markets in which we believe we can charge higher commissions. Pursuing 38 Table of Contents this strategy may require significant management attention and broker expense. We may not be able to attract new customers or successfully enter new markets. If we are unable to identify and exploit new market opportunities on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decline and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to retain our key employees and the ability of certain key employees to devote adequate time to us are critical to the success of our business, and failure to do so may adversely affect our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our people are our most important resource. We must retain the services of our key employees and strategically recruit and hire new talented employees to obtain customer transactions that generate most of our revenues. Howard W. Lutnick, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, is also the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cantor and President of Cantor Fitzgerald Group Management, Inc. (“CFGM”). Stephen M. Merkel, who serves as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, is employed as Executive Managing Director, General Counsel and Secretary of Cantor. These key employees are not subject to employment agreements with us or any of our subsidiaries although we do have an employment agreement with our President, Shaun Lynn. In addition, Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel also hold offices at various other affiliates of Cantor. Currently Mr. Lutnick spends approximately 50% of his time on our matters, and Mr. Merkel currently spends approximately 50% of his time on our matters, although these percentages may vary depending on business developments at our company or Cantor or any of our or Cantor’s affiliates. As a result, these key employees dedicate only a portion of their professional efforts to our business and operations, and there is no contractual obligation for them to spend a specific amount of their time with us and/or Cantor. These key employees may not be able to dedicate adequate time to our business and operations and we could experience an adverse effect on our operations due to the demands placed on our management team by their other professional obligations. In addition, these key employees’ other responsibilities could cause conflicts of interest with us. The BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, which includes non-competition and other arrangements applicable to our key employees who are limited partners of BGC Holdings, may not prevent our key employees, including Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel, who as Cantor partners are not subject to these provisions in the BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, from resigning or competing against us. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” In addition, our success has largely been dependent on the efforts of Messrs. Lutnick and Lynn and other executive officers and former executive officers. Should Mr. Lutnick leave or otherwise become unavailable to render services to us, control of BGC Partners would likely pass to Cantor, and indirectly pass to the then-controlling stockholder of CFGM (which is Mr. Lutnick), Cantor’s managing general partner, or to such other managing general partner as CFGM would appoint, and as a result control could remain with Mr. Lutnick. If any of our key employees, including Messrs. Lutnick and Lynn, were to join an existing competitor, form a competing company, offer services to Cantor that compete with our services or otherwise leave us, some of our customers could choose to use the services of that competitor or another competitor instead of our services, which could adversely affect our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations of eSpeed and the BGC businesses acquired from Cantor in the merger could limit our ability to achieve the expected benefits from the acquisition and may adversely affect our future results. Until the completion of the merger of BGC and eSpeed on April 1, 2008, eSpeed and the BGC businesses, acquired from Cantor in the merger, historically operated as separate companies related primarily through the joint services agreement with Cantor. Our management may continue to face challenges in consolidating the functions of eSpeed and the BGC businesses acquired in the merger, integrating their technologies, organizations, 39 Table of Contents procedures, policies and operations, as well as retaining key personnel. The integration may also continue to be complex and time consuming, and require substantial resources and effort potentially resulting in the diversion of management’s attention for an extended period of time and the incurrence of substantial costs, including costs we may not anticipate. The integration process may also continue to disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect their relationships with employees and others with whom they have business or other dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the realization of anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses combined in the merger, may over time offset the significant transaction and merger-related costs we incurred, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, difficulties in integrating the businesses of eSpeed and the BGC businesses, acquired from Cantor in the merger, could harm our reputation. The impact of the separation and merger on the founding partners, REU partners and future working partners may adversely affect our ability to retain, recruit and motivate these persons. While we believe that our April 2008 separation and merger have promoted retention and recruitment, some founding partners, REU partners and working partners may be more attracted to the benefits of working at a private, controlled partnership or of being a partner in Cantor, which may adversely affect our ability to retain, recruit and motivate these persons. The impact of the separation on the founding partners, REU partners, working partners and other employee retention and recruitment remains uncertain. Many of our key employees were limited partners of Cantor prior to the separation and merger. We believe that the possibility of becoming a limited partner of Cantor has been an important tool in its ability to hire and retain key employees. Prior to the merger, Cantor redeemed Cantor limited partnership interests held by BGC Holdings founding partners in exchange for BGC Holdings limited partnership interests and distribution rights in respect of our common stock. Following the merger, it is not expected that our key employees will have the right to become limited partners in Cantor. In addition, we expect that from time to time, key employees of BGC Partners will have the opportunity to become limited partners of BGC Holdings. While these BGC Holdings limited partnership interests entitle founding/working partners and REU partners to participate in distributions of income from the operations of our business, upon leaving BGC Holdings (or upon any other redemption or purchase of such limited partnership interests as described below), any such founding/working partners or REU partners are, unless Cantor, in the case of the founding partners, and us, as the general partner of BGC Holdings, otherwise determine, only entitled to receive over time, and provided he or she does not violate certain partner obligations, an amount for his or her BGC Holdings limited partnership interests that reflects such partner’s capital account, if any, and not any goodwill or going concern value of BGC Partners’ business. Further, certain working partner units, such as PSUs and PSIs, have no right to a post termination payment. Moreover, unlike Cantor, founding/working partners and REU partners have no right to exchange their BGC Holdings limited partnership interests for shares of BGC Partners common stock (except, in the case of founding partners, as otherwise determined by Cantor in accordance with the terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, and Cantor has provided that certain founding partner interests are exchangeable with us for Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments), in accordance with the terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement and, in the case of REU partners, as set forth in the terms and conditions of the grant) and thereby realize any higher value associated with BGC Partners capital stock. The BGC Holdings limited partnership interests are also subject to redemption, with respect to the founding partners, upon mutual agreement of Cantor and the general partner of BGC Holdings, and with respect to the working partners and REU partners, at the election of the general partner of BGC Holdings, and subject founding/working partners and REU partners to non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, as well as other obligations. In addition, the exercise of Cantor’s right to purchase from BGC Holdings, founding partner interests and, in certain circumstances, working partner interests and REU interests (in each case, that have not become 40 Table of Contents exchangeable) redeemed by BGC Holdings will result in the share of distributions of income from the operations of BGC Partners’ business on other outstanding BGC Holdings limited partnership interests, including those held by founding/working or REU partners, to remain the same rather than increasing as would be the case if such interests were redeemed by BGC Holdings. The terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership interests held by founding/working partners and REU partners also differ from the terms of the limited partnership interests in Cantor previously held by founding partners and by certain of the REU partners as follows: • unlike the limited partnership interests in Cantor, founding/working partners and REU partners are not entitled to reinvest the distributions on BGC Holdings limited partnership interests in additional BGC Holdings limited partnership interests at preferential or historical prices or at all; and • Cantor is entitled to receive any amounts from selected extraordinary transactions that are withheld from distributions to founding/working partners and REU partners and forfeited by founding/working partners and REU partners leaving BGC Holdings prior to their interests in such withheld distributions fully vesting rather than any such forfeited amounts accruing to the benefit of all BGC Holdings limited partners on a pro rata basis. Founding partners may find any of these terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership interests to be less attractive than the arrangements for limited partners of Cantor, which may reduce the effectiveness of these interests as retention tools. In addition, the ownership of the distribution rights and underlying shares of our common stock received by founding partners and other persons providing services to BGC Partners is not dependent upon a founding partner’s continued employment with us or Cantor or compliance with the partner obligations, and founding partners are, therefore not restricted from leaving us by the potential loss of shares distributable pursuant to these distribution rights. Difficult market conditions, economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties could adversely affect our business in many ways by negatively impacting our revenues in the financial markets in which we offer services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions, economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business and profitability. The brokerage and financial services industry, as in general are directly affected by national and international economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, the level and volatility of interest rates, changes in and uncertainty regarding tax laws and substantial fluctuations in the volume and price levels of securities transactions. On a consolidated basis, for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008, over 90% of our total revenues were generated by brokerage operations. As a result, our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of low trading volume in the financial markets in which we offer our services. The financial markets and the global financial services business are, by their nature, risky and volatile and are directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and continued throughout 2009. Our operations may suffer to the extent that ongoing market volatility causes individuals and institutional traders and other market participants to curtail or forego trading activities. These events could have a material adverse effect on our results and profitability. These factors include: • economic and political conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere in the world; • concerns about terrorism, war and other armed hostilities; 41 Table of Contents • concerns over inflation and wavering institutional and consumer confidence levels; • the availability of cash for investment by our dealer customers and their customers; • the level and volatility of interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; • the level and volatility of trading in certain equity and commodity markets; • the level and volatility of the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities, which we refer to as “credit spreads”; • currency values; and • increasing margin requirements and other liquidity concerns. Low trading volume generally results in reduced revenues. Under these conditions, profitability is adversely affected since many costs, including certain aspects of commissions, compensation and bonuses, are fixed. In addition, although less common, some of our brokerage revenues are determined on the basis of the value of transactions or on credit spreads. For these reasons, decreases in trading volume or declining prices or credit spreads could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Employee misconduct or error could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain customers and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm; moreover, this type of misconduct is difficult to detect and deter and error is difficult to prevent. Employee misconduct or error could subject us to financial losses and regulatory sanctions and could seriously harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Misconduct by employees could include engaging in improper or unauthorized transactions or activities, failing to properly supervise other employees or improperly using confidential information. Employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or processing transactions for customers, could cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle, which could expose us to the risk of material losses even if the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. If our customers are not able to settle their transactions on a timely basis, the time in which employee errors are detected may be increased and our risk of material loss could be increased. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct or error, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. The industry in which we operate is subject to significant regulation and as a result we are subject to regulatory capital requirements on our regulated entities, and a significant operating loss or any extraordinary charge against capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or, depending upon the magnitude of the loss or charge, even to maintain the current level of our business. Many aspects of our business, like those of other financial intermediary firms, are subject to significant capital requirements. In the United States, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which we refer to as the “SEC,” the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which we refer to as “FINRA,” and various other regulatory bodies (including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which we refer to as the “CFTC,” and the National Futures Association, which we refer to as the “NFA,”) have stringent provisions with respect to capital applicable to the operation of brokerage firms, which vary depending upon the nature and extent of the broker-dealer’s activities. We currently operate two U.S.-registered broker-dealers. In addition, we hold a 49% limited partnership interest in Aqua Securities, L.P., which we refer to as “Aqua,” a U.S. registered broker-dealer. These broker-dealers are each subject to SEC and FINRA net capital requirements. Our international operations are also subject to capital requirements, which we refer to as “non-U.S. net capital requirements.” Certain of our subsidiaries that are incorporated in the United Kingdom are subject to capital requirements established by the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which we refer to as the “FSA.” The FSA also applies stringent provisions with respect to capital applicable to the operation of these brokerage firms, 42 Table of Contents which vary depending upon the nature and extent of their activities. The provisions relating to capital requirements enforced by the FSA are likely to change with the implementation of the FSA’s response to the Turner Review (A regulatory response to the global banking crisis) and our U.K. subsidiaries will be required to adhere to these changes. The UK group will also need to adhere to new liquidity provisions that may impact the ability to transfer cash assets to other group members. In addition, the majority of our other foreign subsidiaries are subject to similar regulation by the relevant authorities in the countries in which they do business. These regulations often include minimum capital requirements which are subject to change. Similar requirements are applied to certain of our other subsidiaries which are regulated in other countries such as Australia, France and Hong Kong. While we expect to continue to maintain levels of capital in excess of regulatory minimums, there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future. If we fail to maintain the required capital, we will be required to suspend our broker-dealer operations during the period that we are not in compliance with capital requirements, and may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and FINRA or withdrawal of authorization or other disciplinary action from domestic and international regulators, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we fail to maintain the capital required by clearing organizations of which we are a member, our ability to clear through those clearing organizations may be impaired, which may adversely affect our ability to process trades. If the capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries is subject to restrictions, which, in turn, could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or repurchase shares of our common stock or purchase BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from Cantor or our executive officers. In addition, we may become subject to capital requirements in other foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or in which we may enter. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and results in ongoing exposure to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our businesses. Firms in the financial services industry, including our businesses, have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years and penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, state securities commissions, state attorneys general and the FSA, have increased accordingly. This regulatory and enforcement environment may create uncertainty. The financial services industry, including our business, is subject to extensive regulation. Our subsidiaries are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the United States, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension or expulsion. From time to time, “associated persons” of our company have been and are subject to periodic investigations that have and may result in disciplinary actions by the SEC, self-regulatory organizations and state securities administrators. Currently, we and certain other inter-dealer brokers are being investigated by the SEC with respect to trading practices. In addition, the latest FSA annual risk assessment of the BGC Partners group’s regulated entities identified certain weaknesses in the BGC Partners group’s risk and control functionality, including governance procedures. Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA and the NFA, along with statutory bodies such as the SEC and the FSA, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. These regulations will often serve to limit our activities, including through capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Changes in legislation and in the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC, the U.S. Department of Treasury, which we refer to as the “Treasury,” the FSA and other domestic and international 43 Table of Contents regulators and self-regulatory organizations, as well as changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, often directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers and could result in restrictions in the way we conduct our business. For example, the U.S. Congress, the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the SEC are continuing to review the nature and scope of their regulation and oversight of the government securities markets and U.S. markets. In Europe, the implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive in Europe, which we refer to as the “MIFID,” in November 2007 involved wide-ranging changes to European financial services regulation. Future legislation and/or regulation, and uncertainties resulting from the possibility of legislation and/or regulation, could adversely impact our business. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in fines, limitations on business activity, suspension or expulsion from the industry, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. Changes in tax laws, such as the bank payroll taxes introduced in the U.K. and France at the end of the 2009, could have a material adverse effect on our compensation policies or business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, new rules and regulations proposed, or which may be proposed, by the new U.S. president and his administration could have a significant impact on our business. See also “Risk Factors—Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulations or by changes in other regulations or the application thereof.” In addition, financial intermediary firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts, including for example principal trading and trading to make markets. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and we will regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs and additional operational personnel. Failure to adhere to these policies, controls and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or customer litigation. Due to our current customer concentration, a loss of one or more of our significant customers could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and on a consolidated basis, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 43% and 32% of our total revenues, respectively. We have limited long-term contracts with these customers. If we were to lose one or more of these significant customers for any reason, including the recent consolidation in the financial services industry, and not be compensated for such loss by doing additional business with other customers or by adding new customers, our revenues would decline significantly and our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Our activities are subject to credit and performance risks, which could result in us incurring significant losses and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our activities are subject to credit and performance risks. For example, our customers may not deliver securities to one of our operating subsidiaries which has sold those securities to another customer. If the securities due to be delivered have increased in value, there is a risk that we may have to expend our own funds in connection with the purchase of other securities to consummate the transaction. While we will take steps to ensure that our customers and counterparties have high credit standings and that financing transactions are adequately collateralized, the large dollar amounts that may be involved in our broker-dealer and financing transactions could subject us to significant losses if, as a result of customer or counterparty failures to meet commitments, we were to incur significant losses in liquidating or covering our positions in the open market. We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage credit risk, in both agency and principal transactions, through reporting and control procedures and by monitoring credit standards applicable to our customers or counterparties. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective, particularly against fraud, unauthorized trading and similar incidents. Some of these risk management methods depend upon 44 Table of Contents the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are, or may be, exposed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies will not provide coverage for these risks. In agency transactions, we charge a commission for connecting buyers and sellers and assisting in the negotiation of the price and other material terms of the transaction. After all material terms of a transaction are agreed upon, we identify the buyer and seller to each other and leave them to settle the trade directly. We are exposed to credit risk for commissions, as we bill customers for our agency brokerage services. Our customers may default on their obligations to us due to disputes, bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Any losses arising from such defaults could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial problems experienced by third parties could affect the markets in which we provide brokerage services. In addition, a disruption in the credit derivative market could affect our revenues. Problems experienced by third parties could also affect the markets in which we provide financial intermediary services. For example, in recent years, hedge funds have increasingly begun to make use of credit and other derivatives as part of their trading strategies. As a result, an increasing percentage of our business, directly or indirectly, results from trading activity by hedge funds. Hedge funds typically employ a significant amount of leverage to achieve their results and, in the past, certain hedge funds have had difficulty managing this leverage, which has resulted in market-wide disruptions. If one or more hedge funds that is a significant participant in a derivatives market experienced similar problems in the future, including as a result of the recent volatility in this market, the volumes in that market could be adversely affected and, accordingly, our brokerage revenues from that market could decrease. In addition, recent reports in the United States and United Kingdom have suggested weaknesses in the way credit derivatives are assigned by participants in the credit derivative markets. Such reports expressed concern that, due to the size of the credit derivative market, the volume of assignments and the suggested weaknesses in the assignment process, one or more significant defaults by corporate issuers of debt could lead to a market-wide disruption or result in the bankruptcy or operational failure of hedge funds or other market participants. If the credit derivative markets experience a market disruption or if there was real or perceived lack of confidence that the credit derivative markets could orderly process one or more significant defaults of corporate issuers of debt, the use of credit derivatives by our customers could be reduced, leading to lower volumes and, accordingly, our brokerage revenues in that market could decrease. Decline in the financial markets has also led to the exposure of several cases of financial fraud. If we were to have trading activity on an agency or principal basis with an entity engaged in defrauding investor or counterparties, we could bear the risk that the counterparty would not have the financial resources to meet their obligations, resulting in a credit loss. Similarly, we may engage in financial transactions with third parties that have been victims of financial fraud which may not have the financial resources to meet obligations to us. The securities settlement process and the execution of matched principal transactions expose us to risks related to a counterparty failing to fulfill its obligations that may impact our liquidity and profitability and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide some brokerage services to our customers in the form of matched principal transactions, in which we act as a “middleman” by serving as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades. These principal transactions are then settled through clearing institutions with which we have a contractual relationship. In executing matched principal transactions, we are exposed to the risk that one of the counterparties to a transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, either because it is not matched immediately or, even if matched, 45 Table of Contents one party fails to deliver the cash or securities it is obligated to deliver. The exposure we have to less liquid markets, including emerging markets, exacerbates this risk because transactions in these markets tend to be more likely not to settle on a timely basis than transactions in liquid markets. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase the risk. In addition, widespread technological failure, natural disasters (e.g., tsunami and earthquakes) or communication failures, such as those which occurred as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the blackout in the eastern portion of the United States in August 2003. Similarly, actual or perceived credit difficulties or the insolvency of one or more large or visible market participants could cause market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions such as the events which occurred in 2008 and 2009 as a result of the bankruptcy or consolidation of certain financial institutions and contraction of the credit markets. These failures, difficulties or disruptions could result in a large number of market participants not settling transactions or otherwise not fulfilling their obligations. Transactions executed on a matched principal basis where the instrument has the same or similar characteristics to the counterparty may expose us to correlation risk. In this case, the counterparty’s inability to meet its obligations will also result in the value of the instrument declining. For example, if we were to enter into a transaction to sell to a customer a bond or structured note where the issuer or credit support provider was such customer’s affiliate, the value of the instrument would decline in value in tandem with the default. This correlation has the effect of magnifying the credit loss. We are subject to financing risk in these circumstances because if a transaction does not settle on a timely basis, the resulting unmatched position may need to be financed, either directly by us or through one of the clearing organizations, at our expense. These charges may be recoverable from the failing counterparty, but sometimes they are not. In addition, in instances where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged or widespread due to rapid or widespread declines in liquidity for an instrument, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us, which, depending on their size and duration, could limit our business flexibility or even force the curtailment of those portions of our business requiring higher levels of capital. Credit or settlement losses of this nature may impact our liquidity and profitability and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In emerging market countries, we primarily conduct business on an agency and matched principal basis, where the risk of counterparty default, inconvertibility events and sovereign default is greater than in more developed countries. We enter into transactions in cash and derivative instruments primarily on an agency and matched principal basis with counterparties domiciled in countries in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia. Transactions with these counterparties are generally in instruments or contracts of sovereign or corporate issuers located in the same country as the counterparty. This exposes us to a higher degree of sovereign or convertibility risk than in more developed countries. In addition, these risks may be correlated risks. A correlated risk arises when the counterparty’s inability to meet its obligations will also correspond to a decline in the value of the instrument traded. In the case of a sovereign convertibility event or outright default, the counterparty to the trade may be unable to pay or transfer payment of an instrument purchased out of the country when the value of the instrument has declined due to the default or convertibility event. The current global financial crisis heightens the risk of sovereign or convertibility events in emerging markets similar to the events that occurred in previous financial downturns. Risk Management monitors the creditworthiness of emerging countries and counterparties on an ongoing basis and when the risk of inconvertibility or sovereign default is deemed to be too great, correlated transactions or all transactions may be restricted or suspended. However, there can be no assurance that these procedures will be effective in controlling these risks. 46 Table of Contents We have market risk exposure from unmatched principal transactions entered into by some of our desks, which could result in losses and have a disproportionate effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. In addition, financial fraud or unauthorized trading activity could also impact our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. On a limited basis, our desks enter into unmatched principal transactions in the ordinary course of business to facilitate transactions, add liquidity, improve customer satisfaction, increase revenue opportunities, attract additional order flow or in certain instances as the result of an error and, in a limited number of instances and subject to risk management limits, for the purpose of proprietary trading. As a result, we have market risk exposure on these unmatched principal transactions. Our exposure varies based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered and the amount of time the positions are held before we dispose of the position. This exposure could be more significant in the event that any unauthorized trading activity, financial fraud or similar incidents were to occur. All trades executed on the eSpeed platform settle for clearing purposes against Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. (“CFC”), a BGC affiliate. CFC is a member of FINRA (formerly NASD) and the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, a subsidiary of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation. CFC, BGC, and other affiliates participate in U.S. Treasuries as well as other markets by posting quotations for their account and by acting as principal on trades with platform users. Such activity is intended, among other things, to assist CFC, BGC, and their affiliates in managing their proprietary positions (including, but not limited to, those established as a result of combination trades and errors), facilitating transactions, framing markets, adding liquidity, increasing commissions and attracting order flow. From a risk management perspective, we monitor risk on an end-of-day basis and desk managers generally monitor such exposure on a continuous basis. Any unmatched positions are intended to be disposed of in the short-term. However, due to a number of factors, including the nature of the position and access to the market on which we trade, we may not be able to match the position or effectively hedge its exposure and often may be forced to hold a position overnight that has not been hedged. To the extent these unmatched positions are not disposed of intra-day, we mark these positions to market. Adverse movements in the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a loss. In the event of any unauthorized trading activity or financial fraud that is not detected by management or our auditors, it is possible that these unmatched positions could be outstanding for a longer period. Any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. We are generally subject to risks inherent in doing business in the international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry, and any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction and our business could be adversely affected. We currently provide services and products to customers in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region through offices in New York and London, as well as Beijing (representative office), Chicago, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Johannesburg, Mexico City, Moscow, Nyon, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Sarasota, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Toronto and we may seek to further expand our operations. On a consolidated basis, revenues from foreign countries were $875.9 million, or 75.3% of total revenues, and $906.8 million, or 73.8% of total revenues, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There are certain additional political, economic, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry. These risks include: • less developed automation in exchanges, depositories and national clearing systems; • additional or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, capital requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; 47 Table of Contents • the impact of the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business; • possible nationalization, expropriation and regulatory, political and price controls; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions; • any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems, which could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • reduced protections for intellectual property rights; • adverse labor laws; • outbreak of hostilities; and • potentially adverse tax consequences arising from compliance with foreign laws and regulations to which our international subsidiaries are subject. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws and regulations in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our business could be adversely affected. Our business is global and exchange rate fluctuations impact our results. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. Changes in foreign currency rates create volatility in the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues and expenses, in particular with regard to British Pounds and Euros. In addition, changes in the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated net assets are recorded as part of our results of operations and fluctuate with changes in foreign currency rates. We monitor the net exposure in foreign currencies on a daily basis and hedge our exposure as deemed appropriate with highly rated major financial institutions. However, potential movements in the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which we earn revenues could also adversely affect our financial results. Our business is geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by any adverse change in the regions in which we operate. Historically, our operations have been substantially located in the United Kingdom and the United States. While we are expanding our business to new geographies, we are still highly concentrated in these geographies. Because we derived approximately 42.9% and approximately 24.7%, respectively, of our total revenues on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2009, from our operations in the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively, and approximately 46.2% and approximately 26.2%, respectively, of our total revenues on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2008, from our operations in the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively, our business is exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these countries. Moreover, due to the concentration of our business in these geographies, our business is less diversified and, accordingly, is subject to greater regional risks than some of our competitors. We are leveraged, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We are leveraged. As of the closing of the merger on April 1, 2008, we, through our subsidiary, BGC U.S., assumed $150,000,000 of Cantor Fitzgerald, L.P. $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount 5.19% senior notes, 48 Table of Contents due April 1, 2010, (“Cantor’s senior notes”) pursuant to a note purchase agreement, dated as of March 31, 2008, (the “note purchase agreement,”) which are with third-party institutions and contains covenants that limit our ability to take selected actions or set financial tests for our business, including covenants pertaining to the incurrence of additional indebtedness, compliance with law, maintenance of insurance, maintenance of properties and payment of taxes. We refer to the notes issued pursuant to the note purchase agreement as the “BGC U.S. notes.” Pursuant to the guaranty of the notes dated as of March 31, 2008, (the “Company guaranty”) we must maintain consolidated capital in an amount not less than $227,500,000 as of the end of each fiscal quarter and cannot permit our consolidated debt to exceed 60% of our consolidated capitalization; provided, however, that if our consolidated debt exceeds 55%, then the applicable interest rate of the BGC U.S. notes will be increased by 0.25% per annum. These covenants in the note purchase agreement and the Company guaranty could limit our ability to take advantage of certain business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if we are unable to maintain compliance with these covenants, the holders of such indebtedness could declare a default, thereby causing the debt to become immediately due and payable at a premium. If a default were to occur and we were unable to meet our obligations, we would be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, sell additional equity or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Pursuant to the separation agreement, we will make semi-annual payments to Cantor during the term of the BGC U.S. notes equal to the difference between 7.5% and the applicable interest rate of the BGC U.S. notes. Current cash balances substantially exceed the sum of upcoming debt maturities plus unsecured letters of credit. All of the cash on the balance sheet, some of which is held at regulated broker dealer subsidiaries, would not be available to meet these potential liquidity needs. We have been evaluating our options with respect to the $150 million of notes payable that mature on April 1, 2010. These options have included, but are not limited to, repayment at maturity with existing available cash resources, raising external debt or equity capital, including convertible debt, to refinance some or all of the maturing notes, entering into an arms’ length borrowing arrangement with Cantor or another party to pay off some or all of the maturing notes, and/or various combinations of the above. On March 12, 2010, our Audit Committee authorized us or our subsidiaries to sell $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.75 % Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 to Cantor or one of its affiliates, which may include up to $25,000,000 to Howard W. Lutnick and/or his related designees. On March 16, 2010, we executed an agreement with respect to this transaction. We and our affiliates intend to use the proceeds to repay at maturity our outstanding $150,000,000 notes due April 1, 2010. Although we expect this transaction to close on or around April 1, 2010, there is no guarantee that the closing will occur on that date or at all. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • it may limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow money, dispose of assets or sell equity to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt service, strategic initiatives or other obligations or purposes; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; • we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; and • there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing or refinance our existing debt as needed. Cantor has guaranteed the BGC U.S. notes, and any breach by Cantor of the covenants contained in Cantor’s guaranty could result in an event of default under the BGC U.S. notes. Cantor has guaranteed the BGC U.S. notes we assumed in connection with the merger. Cantor’s guaranty contains certain covenants of Cantor, including an obligation by Cantor to maintain a specified level of partners’ capital. To the extent Cantor breaches any of the covenants contained in the guaranty, or if certain other events such as judgments or bankruptcy events occur with respect to Cantor, which occurrences may result due to facts unrelated to us and beyond our control, an event of default will exist under the BGC U.S. notes. 49 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, on terms that are acceptable to us, which could prevent us from developing or enhancing our business, taking advantage of future opportunities or responding to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements. We are dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and sufficient regulatory and clearing capital. Clearing capital is the amount of cash, guarantees or similar collateral that we must provide or deposit with our third-party clearing organizations in support of our obligations under contractual clearing arrangements with these organizations. Historically, these needs have been satisfied from internally generated funds and capital contributions by limited partners of Cantor. We have also relied on Cantor’s support to clear our transactions in U.S. Treasury and U.S. government agency products since the merger on April 1, 2008. Because each of BGC U.S. and BGC Global is expected to distribute, on a quarterly basis, all of its net income to its limited partners, we may not have sufficient internally generated funds and may need to ease this policy or raise additional funds. If for any reason we need to raise additional funds, including in order to meet increased clearing capital requirements arising from growth in our brokerage business and the recent increase in clearing capital requirements set by the FICC, to complete acquisitions or otherwise, we may not be able to obtain additional financing when needed, particularly in light of the extreme volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets over the last two years. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our business, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements. Our business is substantially concentrated on rates products and could be significantly affected by any downturn or negative fluctuations in the rates product market. We offer our services in four broad product categories: rates, credit, foreign exchange and other asset classes. However, our brokerage revenues are substantially derived from our rates products, which accounted for approximately 48.9% and approximately 49.5% of our total brokerage revenues on a consolidated basis, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. While we focus on expanding and diversifying our product offerings, we are currently exposed to any adverse change or condition affecting the rates product market. Accordingly, the concentration of our operations on rates products subjects our results to a greater market risk than if we had a more diversified products offering. The brokerage and financial services industries in general face substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons, all of which could adversely affect our revenues and liabilities and as a result could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability and, in the normal course of business, we have been a party to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations and other actions involving primarily claims for damages. Regulatory inquiries and subpoenas or other requests for information or testimony in connection with litigation may cause us to incur significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. The risks associated with such potential liabilities often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The expansion of our business, including into new areas, imposes additional risks of liability. A settlement of, or judgment related to, any such claim, litigation, arbitration, investigation or other action could result in civil or criminal liability, fines, limitations on business activities and other sanctions and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any such action could also cause us significant reputational harm, which, in turn, could seriously harm our business and prospects. In addition, regardless of the outcome of these lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations and other actions, we may incur significant legal and other costs, including substantial management time, dealing with such matters, even if we are not a party to the litigation or a target of the inquiry. As a brokerage and financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our customers and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain customers. 50 Table of Contents As a result, if our customers are not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could adversely affect our revenues and liquidity and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. A portion of our revenues is derived from our sale of market data to third parties, and a decline in customer purchases or adverse new legislation or regulation could have an adverse effect on our business. A portion of our total revenues, approximately 1.5% and 1.6% on a consolidated basis for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is derived from the sale of market data to third parties. BGCantor Market Data (formerly Cantor Market Data) is the exclusive source of real-time proprietary pricing and other data we derive for certain U.S. and European securities and derivatives. If customers cease buying data or making payments, or if new legislation or regulation were enacted affecting our right to sell or distribute this market data, it could have an adverse effect on our business. Our revenues and profitability could be reduced or otherwise adversely affected by pricing plans relating to commissions and fees on our trading platform. We negotiate from time to time with certain customers (including many of our largest customers) to enter into customized volume discount pricing plans. While the pricing plans are designed to encourage customers to be more active on our electronic trading platform, they reduce the amount of commissions payable to us by certain of our most active customers for certain products, which could reduce our revenues and constrain our profitability. Reduced spreads in securities pricing, levels of trading activity and trading through market makers and/or specialists could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Computer-generated buy/sell programs and other technological advances and regulatory changes in the marketplace may continue to tighten securities spreads. In addition, new and enhanced alternative trading systems, such as electronic communications networks, have emerged as an alternative for individual and institutional investors, as well as broker-dealers. As such systems do not direct trades through market makers, their use could result in reduced revenues for us. In addition, reduced trading levels could lead to lower revenues which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our intellectual property. We generally rely primarily on trade secret, contract, copyright, trademark and patent law to establish and protect our rights to proprietary technologies, methods and products. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technologies without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use intellectual property or technology that is material to our business operations. For example, we have been subject to new and ongoing claims by Trading Technologies International, Inc., which we refer to as “TT.” While certain of our current products were determined in the dispute with TT to not infringe, TT has made claims with respect to other products. If any of these claims is ultimately successful, in addition to paying damages, we may be required to modify or withdraw certain products from the market. Restrictions on the distribution of some of the market data generated by our brokerage desks could limit the comprehensiveness and quality of the data we are able to distribute or sell. Although we have taken steps to protect ourselves, we may not be able to protect our technology from disclosure or from other developing technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. 51 Table of Contents In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such claims or litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect our business. Responding to these claims could also require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Intellectual property rights of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Although we have taken steps to protect ourselves, there can be no assurance that we will be aware of all patents or copyrights containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, in the past several years, there has been a proliferation of so-called “business method patents” applicable to the computer and financial services industries. There has also been a substantial increase in the number of such patent applications filed. Under current law, U.S. patent applications remain secret for 18 months and may, depending upon where else such applications are filed, remain secret until a patent is issued. In light of these factors, it is not economically practicable to determine in advance whether our products or services may infringe the present or future patent rights of others. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property rights we own, our ability to operate electronic marketplaces may be materially adversely affected. Our business is dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We cannot guarantee that the concepts which are the subject of the patents and patent applications that we own are patentable or that issued patents are or will be valid and enforceable or that such concepts will be marketable or profitable for our business. Additionally, from time to time, issued patents may expire and we may no longer receive revenue related to such patents, including United States Patent No. 4,903,201, which we refer to as the “Wagner Patent,” which expired on February 20, 2007. Where patents are granted in the United States, we can give no assurance that equivalent patents will be granted in Europe or elsewhere, as a result of differences in local laws affecting patentability and validity. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that third parties competing or intending to compete with us will not infringe any of these patents. Despite precautions we have taken to protect the intellectual property rights that we own, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to monitor unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technologies or intellectual property rights. If our software licenses from third parties are terminated or adversely changed or amended or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, our ability to operate our business may be materially adversely affected. We license databases and other software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are terminable if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. If any material relationships were terminated or adversely changed or amended, or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software, and our ability to operate our business may be materially adversely affected. Although we take steps to locate replacements, there can be no assurance that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that we will have an ongoing license to use all intellectual property which our systems require, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 52 Table of Contents The financial markets in which we operate are generally affected by seasonality which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance in a given period. Traditionally, the financial markets around the world experience lower volume during the summer and at the end of the year due to a general slowdown in the business environment and, therefore, our transaction volume levels may decrease during those periods. The timing of local holidays also affects transaction volume. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance in a given period. We operate in a rapidly evolving business environment. If we are unable to adapt our business effectively to keep pace with these changes, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pace of change in the industry in which we operate is extremely rapid. Operating in such a rapidly changing business environment involves a high degree of risk. Our ability to succeed will depend on our ability to adapt effectively to these changing market conditions. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, we may not be able to compete effectively. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary software, network distribution systems and technologies. Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological changes, changes in use and customer requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop, license and defend intellectual property useful in our business; • enhance our existing services; • develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; • respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • adapt to technological advancements and changing standards to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements. The development of proprietary electronic trading technology entails significant technical, financial and business risks. Further, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify, adapt and defend our technology. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, or that we will be able to successfully defend any challenges to any technology we develop. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, customer requirements or changing industry standards, or any significant delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could make our customers hesitant to use our electronic marketplaces. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Our networks, those of our third-party service vendors, including Cantor and associated clearing corporations, and those of our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other 53 Table of Contents security problems. These networks are provisioned using redundant connections, service providers and routes to provide a high level of redundancy and availability and also to allow partitioning and containment of potential security threats. However, there can be no assurance such measures will be effective against all future threats. People who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could make our customers hesitant to use our electronic marketplaces. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. If we experience computer systems failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our operations could be harmed. We support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks internally. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations. Although all of our business critical systems have been designed and implemented with fault tolerant and/or redundant clustered hardware and diversely routed network connectivity, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate. Although we have three geographically disparate main data centers, they could be subject to failure due to environmental factors, power outage and other factors. Accordingly, we may be subject to system failures and outages which might impact our revenues and relationships with customers. In addition, we will be subject to risk in the event that systems of our partners, customers or vendors are subject to failures and outages. We rely on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, clearance organizations and software and hardware vendors. Our systems, or those of our third-party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers; • slower response times; • delays in our customers’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • financial losses; • litigation or other customer claims; and • regulatory sanctions. There can be no assurance that we will not experience additional systems failures in the future from power or telecommunications failures, acts of God or war, terrorist attacks, human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by customer error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective internal control environment, our business and stock price could suffer and we may need to restate our financial statements. We are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report includes, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these 54 Table of Contents assessments. Prior to the separation and merger, BGC Partners was not subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on internal controls over financial reporting but eSpeed was. In November 2007, the BGC Division, comprising the BGC businesses we acquired in the merger, completed a restatement of its financial statements with respect to errors related to accounting for certain intercompany transactions between the BGC Division and certain affiliates. Also in 2007, the management of the BGC Division identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including the lack of a formal, documented closing process designed to identify key financial reporting risks. This weakness may have indicated a heightened risk that the BGC Division’s and the Company’s annual or interim financial statements could contain a material misstatement. During the course of 2008, we substantially completed the following initiatives which are aimed at addressing this weakness: establishing what we believe are appropriate internal controls for the monthly closing process, including a more formal schedule and account substantiation and reconciliation tools; establishing a single global general ledger with a standard global chart of accounts; and taking steps aimed at ensuring that we have the appropriate staff within our organization. During the quarter ended June 30, 2009, our management identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to four unauthorized trades and failure to submit confirmations in one of our foreign offices. We determined that we lacked certain controls with respect to the activities of the broker and that the operational and risk management controls in place to monitor the broker’s activities were not properly performed in this instance and therefore were not effective with respect to this event. Performance of secondary controls resulted in the identification of these trades, which management believes was an isolated occurrence. During the quarter ended September 30, 2009 the Company’s management implemented control enhancements to remediate this material weakness in internal controls. These control enhancements included: improving management oversight controls to enable increased awareness of unauthorized or unmatched activity; increased controls around monitoring and recording of client instructions and settlements; enhanced procedures for pre-settlement matching of trades; automated trade confirmation processes; implementing a process to ensure that all trade date reconciliation procedures are being properly performed and reviewed; and improved management reporting regarding compliance and risk monitoring and P&L. Although this material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 2009, there can be no assurance that a similar incident could not occur. Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the internal control. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. As such, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Ongoing compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may require significant expenses and management resources that would need to be diverted from our operations and could require a restructuring of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such expenses, time reallocations or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 55 Table of Contents While portions of our compensation structure are variable, significant parts of our cost structure are fixed, and if our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs in the amount that our revenues decline, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. While portions of our compensation structure are variable, significant parts of our cost structure are fixed. We base our overall cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for these products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. If we are unable to reduce our costs in the amount that our revenues decline, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. We may be required to pay Cantor for a significant portion of the tax benefit relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we claim as a result of any step-up in the tax basis in the assets of BGC U.S. and BGC Global resulting from the exchange of interests in BGC Holdings for BGC Partners common stock. Certain interests in BGC Holdings may, in effect, be exchanged in the future for shares of BGC Partners Class A common stock or BGC Partners Class B common stock on a one-for-one basis (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments). The exchanges may result in increases to our share of the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of each of BGC U.S. and BGC Global that otherwise would not have been available, although the Internal Revenue Service may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge by the Internal Revenue Service. These increases in tax basis, if sustained, may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. In connection with the separation and related transactions, BGC Partners OldCo entered into, and, in the merger, we assumed BGC Partners OldCo’s rights and obligations under, the tax receivable agreement with Cantor that provides for the payment by us to Cantor of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis and of certain other tax benefits related to its entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. It is expected that we will benefit from the remaining 15% of cash savings, if any, in income tax that we realize. Pursuant to the tax receivable agreement, we will determine, after consultation with Cantor, the extent to which we are permitted to claim any such tax benefits, and such tax benefits will be taken into account in computing any cash savings so long as our accountants agree that it is at least more likely than not that such tax benefit is available. Pursuant to the tax receivable agreement, 20% of each payment that would otherwise be made by us will be deposited into an escrow account until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year to which the payment relates. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenges the availability of any tax benefit and determines that a tax benefit is not available, we will be entitled to receive reimbursements from Cantor for amounts we previously paid under the tax receivable agreement and Cantor will indemnify us and hold us harmless with respect to any interest or penalties and any other losses in respect of the disallowance of any deductions which gave rise to the payment under the tax receivable agreement (together with reasonable attorneys’ and accountants’ fees incurred in connection with any related tax contest, but the indemnity for such reasonable attorneys’ and accountants’ fees shall only apply to the extent Cantor is permitted to control such contest). Any such reimbursement or indemnification payment will be satisfied first from the escrow account (to the extent funded in respect of such payments under the tax receivable agreement). For purposes of the tax receivable agreement, cash savings in income and franchise tax will be computed by comparing our actual income and franchise tax liability to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no depreciation or amortization deductions available to us that were attributable to an increase in tax basis (or any imputed interest) as a result of an exchange and had BGC Partners OldCo not entered into the tax receivable agreement. The tax receivable agreement was entered into on March 31, 2008, in 56 Table of Contents connection with the transactions contemplated by the separation agreement, and will continue until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, unless we (with the approval by a majority of our independent directors) exercise our right to terminate the tax receivable agreement for an amount based on an agreed value of payments remaining to be made under the agreement, provided that if Cantor and we cannot agree upon a value, the agreement will remain in full force and effect. While the actual amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of the income that we achieve, it is expected that as a result of the anticipated magnitude of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of BGC U.S. and BGC Global attributable to our interest in BGC U.S. and BGC Global, during the term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to Cantor could be substantial. Our ability to achieve benefits from any remaining cash savings in income tax that we realize will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. The 2008 separation and merger might be challenged by creditors as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, and equity holders and creditors of the entity held liable could be adversely affected should a court agree with such a challenge. Although we do not believe that the 2008 separation or the merger resulted in a fraudulent conveyance or transfer, if a court in a suit by an unpaid creditor or representative of creditors of Cantor or another entity transferring consideration to pre-merger BGC Partners or us, such as a trustee in bankruptcy, or Cantor or such other entity itself, as debtor-in-possession in a reorganization case under Title 11 of the U.S. Code, were to find that: • the separation or the merger, as the case may be (or any component transaction thereof), was undertaken for the purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of Cantor or another entity by transferring consideration to pre-merger BGC Partners as part of the separation or us as part of the merger, as the case may be; or • Cantor or another entity transferring consideration to the BGC businesses as part of the separation or us as part of the merger received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in connection with the separation or the merger, as the case may be, and (1) any of Cantor or such other entity (as applicable) were insolvent immediately before, or were rendered insolvent by, the separation or the merger, as the case may be, (2) Cantor or such other entity (as applicable) immediately prior to, or as of the effective time of, the completion of the separation or the merger, as the case may be, and after giving effect thereto, intended or believed that it would be unable to pay its debts as they became due or (3) the capital of any of Cantor or such other entity (as applicable) immediately before, or at the effective time of, the completion of the separation or the merger, as the case may be, and after giving effect thereto, was inadequate to conduct its business; then the court could determine that the separation or the merger, as the case may be (or any component transaction thereof), violated applicable provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or applicable non-bankruptcy fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws. This determination would permit unpaid creditors, the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to rescind the separation or the merger, as the case may be (or component transaction thereof), to recover the consideration transferred or an amount equal to the value thereof from us, or to subordinate or render unenforceable the debt incurred in furtherance thereof, or to require us or the holder of such debt to fund liabilities for the benefit of creditors. Our equity holders and creditors held liable as a result of such a determination would be adversely affected to the extent each is required to surrender value to satisfy its liability. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law of the jurisdiction that is being applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its liabilities, including contingent liabilities, is greater than its assets, at a fair valuation; 57 Table of Contents • the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount required to pay the probable liability on its total existing debts and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and matured; or • it is generally not paying its debts as they become due. Similar provisions would also apply in any other jurisdiction in which the separation and/or merger took effect. If we were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, as a result of our ownership of BGC U.S., BGC Global or BGC Holdings, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. If Cantor ceases to hold a majority of our voting power, Cantor’s interest in us could be deemed an investment security under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the “Investment Company Act.” If we were to cease participation in the management of BGC Holdings (or if BGC Holdings, in turn, was to cease participation in the management of BGC U.S. or BGC Global) or not be deemed to have a majority of the voting power of BGC Holdings (or if BGC Holdings, in turn, was deemed not to have a majority of the voting power of BGC U.S. or BGC Global), our interest in BGC Holdings or BGC U.S. or BGC Global could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. If BGC Holdings ceased to participate in the management of BGC U.S. or BGC Global or be deemed not to have a majority of the voting power of BGC U.S. or BGC Global, its interest in BGC U.S. or BGC Global could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Generally, an entity is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. We are a holding company and hold BGC U.S. limited partnership interests, BGC Global limited partnership interests, the BGC Holdings general partnership interest and the BGC Holdings special voting limited partnership interest, which entitles the holder thereof to remove and appoint the general partner of BGC Holdings. A determination that we hold more than 40% of our assets in investment securities could result in us being an investment company under the Investment Company Act and becoming subject to registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed prescriptions for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, limit the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options and impose certain governance requirements. If anything were to happen that would cause us, BGC Holdings or Cantor to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, the Investment Company Act would limit our or its capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including Cantor, BGC Holdings or us, as the case may be) and ability to compensate key employees. Therefore, if Cantor, BGC Holdings or we became subject to the Investment Company Act, it could make it impractical to continue our business, impair agreements and arrangements, and the transactions contemplated by those agreements and arrangements, between and among us, BGC Holdings, BGC U.S., BGC Global and Cantor or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 58 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Relationship with Cantor and its Affiliates We are controlled by Cantor, which has potential conflicts of interest with us and may exercise its control in a way that favors its interests to our detriment. • Cantor’s Control Cantor effectively is able to exercise control over our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and determinations with respect to acquisitions and dispositions, as well as material expansions or contractions of our business, entry into new lines of business and borrowings and issuances of Class A common stock and Class B common stock or other securities. This control is subject to the approval of our independent directors on those matters requiring such approval. Cantor’s voting power may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Cantor in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses; • the issuance or disposition of securities by us; • the election of new or additional directors to our board of directors; • the payment of dividends by us (if any), distribution of profits by BGC U.S., BGC Global and/or BGC Holdings and repurchases of shares of our common stock or purchases of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from Cantor or our executive officers; • business operations or business opportunities of ours and Cantor’s that would compete with the other party’s business opportunities, including Cantor’s and our brokerage and financial services; • labor, tax, employee benefits, indemnification and other matters arising from the separation or the merger; • intellectual property matters; • business combinations involving us; • conflicts between our agency trading for primary and secondary bond sales and Cantor’s investment banking bond origination business; • competition between our and Cantor’s other equity derivatives and cash equity inter-dealer brokerage businesses; • the nature, quality and pricing of administrative services to be provided by Cantor and/or Tower Bridge International Services, L.P., which we refer to as “Tower Bridge”; and • provision of clearing capital and potential and existing loans. We also expect Cantor to manage its ownership of us so that it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, including by maintaining its voting power in us above a majority absent an applicable exemption from the Investment Company Act. This may result in conflicts with us including those relating to acquisitions or offerings by us involving issuances of Class A common stock or Class B common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of Class A common stock or Class B common stock, that would dilute the voting power in us of the holders of BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests. In addition, Cantor has from time to time in the past and may in the future consider possible strategic realignments of its own business and/or of the relationships that exist between and among Cantor and us. Any future related party transaction or arrangement between Cantor and us, until Cantor ceases to hold 5% of our 59 Table of Contents voting power, is subject to the prior approval by a majority of our independent directors, but generally does not otherwise require the separate approval of our stockholders, and if such approval is required, Cantor will retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of the other stockholders. In addition, the service of officers or partners of Cantor as our executive officers and directors, and those persons’ ownership interests in and payments from Cantor, and its affiliates, could create conflicts of interest when we and those directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and Cantor. See “—Risks Related to our Business—Our ability to retain our key employees and the ability of certain key employees to devote adequate time to us are critical to the success of our business, and failure to do so may adversely affect our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our agreements and other arrangements with Cantor may be amended upon agreement of the parties to those agreements upon approval of our audit committee. During the time that we are controlled by Cantor, Cantor may be able to require us to agree to amendments to these agreements. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. • Corporate Opportunities In order to address potential conflicts of interest between Cantor and its representatives and us, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions regulating and defining the conduct of our affairs as they may involve Cantor and its representatives, and our powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of our representatives in connection with our relationship with Cantor and its affiliates, officers, directors, general partners or employees. Our certificate of incorporation provides that no Cantor Company, as defined in our certificate of incorporation, or any of the representatives, as defined in our certificate of incorporation, of a Cantor Company will owe any fiduciary duty to, nor will any Cantor Company or any of their respective representatives be liable for breach of fiduciary duty to, us or any of our stockholders. The corporate opportunity policy that is included in our certificate of incorporation is designed to resolve potential conflicts of interest between us and Cantor and its representatives. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that Cantor and its respective representatives will have no duty to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or • doing business with any of our customers. The BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement contains similar provisions with respect to BGC Partners and/or Cantor and their respective representatives, and the BGC U.S. and BGC Global limited partnership agreements contain similar provisions with respect to BGC Partners and/or BGC Holdings and their respective representatives. If Cantor competes with us, it could materially harm our business operations. Agreements between us and Cantor are between related parties and the terms of these agreements may be less favorable to us than those that we could have negotiated with third parties. Our relationship with Cantor results in agreements with Cantor that are between related parties. As a result, the prices charged to us or by us for services provided under agreements with Cantor may be higher or lower than prices that may be charged by third parties and the terms of these agreements may be less favorable to us than those that we could have negotiated with third parties. For example, pursuant to the separation agreement, Cantor 60 Table of Contents has a right, subject to certain conditions, to be our customer and to pay the lowest commissions paid by any other customer, whether by volume, dollar or other applicable measure. In addition, Cantor has an unlimited right to internally use market data from BGCantor Market Data without any cost. Any future related party transactions or arrangements between us and Cantor, until Cantor ceases to hold 5% of our voting power, is subject to the prior approval by a majority of our independent directors, but generally does not otherwise require the separate approval of our stockholders, and if such approval were required, Cantor will retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of the other stockholders. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock and Our Structure The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our Class A common stock has declined substantially in recent months and may continue to fluctuate significantly from time to time as a result of many factors, including: • investors’ perceptions of our prospects; • investors’ perceptions of the prospects of the brokerage business and more broadly, the financial services industry; • decline in general economic conditions; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • fluctuations in quarterly operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • changes or trends in our industry, including price volatility, trading volumes, competitive or regulatory changes or changes in the brokerage business; • developments in our business or in the financial sector generally, including the effect of direct governmental action in financial markets generally and with respect to future exchanges in particular; • adverse resolution of new or pending litigation against us; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • broad market fluctuations. In particular, announcements of potentially adverse developments, such as proposed regulatory changes, new government investigations or the commencement or threat of litigation against us, as well as announced changes in our business plans or those of our competitors, could adversely affect the trading price of our stock, regardless of the likely outcome of those developments. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Stock markets in general, and stock prices of participants in the financial services industry in particular, including us, have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for securities. The market price of our Class A common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations which may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. Declines in the price of our Class A common stock may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including our working partners and other key professional employees. 61 Table of Contents The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. In addition, future sales of shares of Class A common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. BGC Partners stockholders, other than Cantor and its affiliates, could be diluted by such future sales and be further diluted upon exchange of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests into our common stock and upon issuance of additional BGC US and BGC Global limited partnership interests to BGC Holdings as a result of future issuances of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests. We have also repurchased shares of our Class A common stock from time to time, and may actively do so or cease doing so at any time. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated widely since eSpeed’s initial public offering in December 1999 and the market price of Class A common stock may continue to do so depending upon many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the financial marketplaces in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, seasonality, changes in general valuations for companies in our business segment, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Future sales of our shares also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, strategic alliances, third-party investments and private placements or otherwise, such as our public offering in June 2008, the market price of common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these stockholders might sell shares could depress the market price of common stock. We have registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the “Securities Act,” 100,430,000 shares of common stock, which are reserved for issuance upon exercise of options, restricted stock, exchange rights and other incentive compensation granted under our Long-Term Incentive Plan. These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates. We may in the future register additional shares of common stock under the Securities Act that become reserved for issuance under our Long-Term Incentive Plan or other benefit plans. In addition, we have registered under the Securities Act 425,000 shares of common stock issuable under our stock purchase plan. Beginning on March 31, 2009, the first anniversary of the completion of the separation, Cantor was permitted to exchange all of its BGC Holdings limited partnership interests. The BGC Holdings founding partner interests that Cantor has provided are exchangeable with us for Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments), in accordance with the terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, are as follows and are described in further detail in “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence”: • 20% of the BGC Holdings founding partner interests held by each founding partner (other than Messrs. Amaitis and Lynn) (an aggregate of 3,154,991 interests) are exchangeable at any time. • (1) 1,100,000 of the 3,160,215 BGC Holdings founding partner interests held by Mr. Amaitis at the closing of the merger became exchangeable upon the closing of the merger and 491,701 of which were exchanged by Mr. Amaitis in April 2009, 400,000 were exchanged in November 2009 and the remaining 208,299 were exchanged in early 2010. • (1) 600,000 of the 2,515,898 BGC Holdings founding partner interests held by Mr. Lynn at the closing of the merger became exchangeable upon the closing of the merger and 500,000 of which were exchanged by Mr. Lynn in February 2010. The remaining shares have or will become exchangeable over eight years. Any working partner interests that are issued will not be exchangeable with us unless otherwise determined by us with the written consent of a BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interest majority in interest. The shares ultimately issuable pursuant to the BGC Holdings REUs, RPUs, PSUs, PSIs or other partnership units 62 Table of Contents (if exchangeable) and the RSUs that were issued upon the closing of the merger and subsequently would be shares of common stock issued pursuant to our Long-Term Incentive Plan or similar plan. In connection with the merger, 111,890,929 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exchange of the BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests, which are entitled to registration rights under the terms of a registration rights agreement with Cantor that we assumed as a part of the merger, which we refer to as the “separation registration rights agreement,” and BGC Holdings founding partner interests (if exchangeable) and BGC Holdings REUs (if exchangeable). In addition, shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock held by Cantor are entitled to registration rights under a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the formation of eSpeed, which we refer to as the “formation registration rights agreement.” In light of the number of shares of common stock issuable in connection with the full exchange of the BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests, BGC Holdings founding partner interests (if exchangeable), and BGC Holdings REUs, RPUs, PSUs, PSIs or other partnership units (if exchangeable), the price of common stock may decrease and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities may be adversely impacted as these exchanges occur and transfer restrictions lapse. In addition, the following table reflects the timetable for distributions by Cantor of shares of our common stock that it holds or will hold in respect of the distribution rights that Cantor provided to limited partners of Cantor, including to the founding partners, in connection with the separation and merger. All of these shares of our common stock will be distributed by Cantor. Cantor expects to use shares of our Class A common stock received upon its conversion of Class B common stock, shares of our Class A common stock received upon exchange of BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests and purchases of shares of our Class A common stock in the open market to satisfy its distribution obligation under the distribution rights. Anniversary of the merger (April 1, 2008) Number of shares of our common stockthat are required to be distributed by Cantorin respect of the distribution rights(1) 12 month 4,975,551 18 month 5,703,508 24 month 8,181,089 30 month 1,166,992 36 month 2,954,200 Total 22,981,340 (1) As of December 31, 2009. Includes distribution rights shares which certain Cantor partners have elected to defer until a later time. Cantor has offered to its partners the opportunity to elect to defer their receipt of the distribution right shares and receive a distribution equivalent rather than making an immediate issuance of such shares in the form of Class A Common Stock. Cantor partners who elect to defer their right to such shares are entitled to receive their shares of Class A Common Stock upon written notice to Cantor. Shares will be delivered on such subsequent dates as shall be determined by Cantor in its administrative discretion and Cantor shall have a right to defer such issuances for up to 3 months, although Cantor generally makes such issuances on a quarterly basis to its partners. Of the 13,316,917 shares of Class A Common Stock Cantor has been required to distribute to retained partners since the 2008 merger, as of December 31, 2009, partners currently having rights to 10,618,345 shares have elected to defer receipt. As of March 31, 2010, the aggregate number of remaining shares of Class A Common Stock that CFLP will be required to distribute to retained and founding partners will be 22,981,340 shares of Class A Common Stock (20,301,276 shares with respect to retained partners and 2,680,064 shares with respect to founding partners). 63 Table of Contents Cantor may fund the Class A common stock scheduled to be delivered in satisfaction of its distribution rights obligations by using: (i) shares of Class A common stock owned of record by it, (ii) shares of Class A common stock receivable upon conversion by Cantor of shares of Class B common stock, (iii) shares of Class A common stock receivable upon exchange by Cantor of BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership units, or (iv) any combination of the above. In addition to the table above, the managing general partner of Cantor will be able to grant earlier distribution of the shares in its discretion, as it did with respect to an additional 6,073,355 shares and 458,369 shares in connection with our public offering in June 2008 and stock repurchases by us in September 2008, respectively. Similarly, in connection with the founding partners’ charitable donations, Cantor has periodically agreed to accelerate the distribution of distribution rights shares solely to permit such founding partners to donate such shares to The Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund or other charities. In addition, we have issued shares of our common stock, warrants and convertible preferred stock and granted registration rights in connection with certain of our strategic alliances. During 2009, we repurchased 4,023,959 shares of Class A common stock at an aggregate purchase price of $7,902,170 million. The 4,023,959 reacquired shares were designated treasury shares and will be used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2009, $32.4 million was remaining from the authorization of our board of directors and our audit committee to repurchase our Class A common stock, BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from Cantor or our executive officers. We may continue to make stock repurchases in 2010 and from time to time we may actively repurchase shares and may cease making repurchases at anytime. In 2009, an aggregate of 4,438,765 shares were issued upon exchange of exchangeable founding partner units. In order to facilitate receipt of the shares by the partners of BGC Holdings and receipt of distribution rights shares to be received by partners of BGC Holdings and Cantor, as well as subsequent sales of such shares, we and Cantor have made arrangements for such partners to open brokerage accounts with an investment bank. These accounts facilitate repayment by any such partners of any partnership loans or other amounts payable to Cantor or us. On March 10, 2010, 208,151 shares of Class A Common Stock were exchanged by a certain founding partner and 133,580 distribution rights shares were issued by Cantor to a certain retained partner. Further, on that date, we repurchased the aggregate of 541,731 shares of Class A Common Stock at an aggregate purchase price of $2,862,773. Therefore, as of March 10, 2010, $29.5 million was remaining from the $100 million buyback authorization. On March 12, 2010, our Audit Committee authorized us or our subsidiaries to sell $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.75 % Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 to Cantor or one of its affiliates which may include up to $25,000,000 to Howard W. Lutnick and/or his related designees. On March 16, 2010, we executed an agreement with respect to this transaction. We and our affiliates intend to use the proceeds to repay at maturity our outstanding $150.0 million notes due April 1, 2010. In March 2010, the Amended and Restated BGC Holdings, L.P. limited partnership agreement was further amended by its general partner and Cantor to create two new types of Working Partner Units, PSUs and PSIs. PSUs and PSIs are identical to REUs and RPUs, respectively, except that they have no associated post-termination payments. These new units are expected to be used by us for future compensatory grants, compensation modifications, redemptions of partnership interests and other purposes. We have commenced a program directed initially at partners based in the United Kingdom (excluding executive officers) to be effected through a redemption, and separate compensation modification proposals, in which PSUs and PSIs would be substituted for REUs and RPUs, respectively. If the redemption is effected, the REUs and RPUs held by the affected partners who participate in the redemption would be redeemed in return for 64 Table of Contents PSUs and PSIs, respectively, and cash. The compensation modification proposals, if effected, would principally result in an additional redemption for cash or the exchangeability of certain of the units received by partners in the redemption or retained by partners who are not subject to the redemption (as well as certain Founding Partner Units held by such partners). This program increases the likelihood that we will pay future compensation in PSUs and PSIs. We currently expect the effect of this redemption will be to reduce our fully-diluted share count by between 1 and 3 percent. Because our voting control is concentrated among the holders of Class B common stock, the market price of Class A common stock may be adversely affected by disparate voting rights. As of December 31, 2009, Cantor beneficially owned 82.8% of our voting power. As long as Cantor beneficially owns a majority of our combined voting power, it will have the ability, without the consent of the public stockholders, to elect all of the members of our board of directors and to control our management and affairs. In addition, it will be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of us. In certain circumstances, such as when transferred to an entity controlled by Cantor or Howard W. Lutnick, the shares of Class B common stock issued to Cantor may be transferred without conversion to Class A common stock. The holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock have substantially identical rights, except that holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders in general. These votes are controlled by Cantor and are not subject to conversion or termination by our board of directors or any committee thereof, or any other stockholder or third-party. This differential in the voting rights could adversely affect the market price of common stock. We are a holding company, and accordingly we are dependent upon distributions from BGC U.S. and BGC Global to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses and to make repurchases. We are a holding company with no independent means of generating revenues. Any dividends declared by us and all applicable taxes payable in respect of our net taxable income, if any, are paid from distributions to us from BGC U.S. and BGC Global. To the extent that we need funds to pay dividends or to pay taxes on our share of BGC U.S.’s and BGC Global’s net taxable income, or to repurchase shares of our common stock or BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests or if we need funds to pay dividends, make repurchases or for any other purpose, and either BGC U.S. or BGC Global or their respective subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to declare dividends. In addition, any unanticipated accounting, tax or other charges against net income could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses and to make repurchases. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. We are a holding company with no direct operations and will be able to pay dividends only from our available cash on hand and funds received from distributions from BGC U.S. and BGC Global. BGC U.S. and BGC Global intend to distribute to their limited partners, including us, on a pro rata and quarterly basis, cash that is not required to meet BGC U.S.’s and BGC Global’s anticipated business needs. As a result, BGC U.S.’s and BGC Global’s ability, and in turn our ability, to make any distributions will depend upon the continuing profitability and strategic and operating needs of our business, including various capital adequacy and clearing capital requirements promulgated by regulatory, banking and exchange authorities to which our subsidiaries are subject. We expect to pay not less than 75% of our post-tax distributable earnings per fully diluted share as cash dividends to all common stockholders, with the balance of such distributable earnings to be available to repurchase shares of our common stock or purchase BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from Cantor or our executive officers. Our board of directors and our audit 65 Table of Contents committee have authorized repurchases of our common stock and purchases of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries as part of this policy, including those held by Cantor or our executive officers, at the volume weighted average price, to the extent available, of such securities on the date on which such purchase or repurchase is made, or, in some cases, at the closing stock price. As of March 10, 2010, we had $29.5 million remaining under this stock repurchase authorization and may continue to make stock repurchases from time to time, we may actively repurchase shares and may cease making purchases at anytime. In addition, from time to time, we may reinvest all or a portion of the distributions we receive in BGC U.S.’s and BGC Global’s respective businesses, although we have no current plans to do so nor do we expect to so long as we maintain our current dividend policy. As a result, there can be no assurance that future dividends will be paid. See “Dividend Policy”. Delaware law and our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Some provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which we refer to as the “DGCL,” and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as the “certificate of incorporation,” and amended and restated bylaws, which we refer to as the “bylaws,” could make the following more difficult: • acquisition of us by means of a tender offer; • acquisition of us by means of a proxy contest or otherwise; or • removal of our incumbent officers and directors. These provisions, summarized below, are expected to discourage coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids. These provisions are also designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with our board of directors. We believe that the benefits of increased protection give us the potential ability to negotiate with the proponent of an unfriendly or unsolicited proposal to acquire or restructure us and outweigh the disadvantages of discouraging those proposals because negotiation of them could result in an improvement of their terms. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of our board of directors, or in the event the Chairman of our board of directors is unavailable, by the Chief Executive Officer or by the holders of a majority of the voting power of our Class B common stock, which is held by Cantor and CFGM, the managing general partner of Cantor, an entity controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Howard W. Lutnick. In addition, our certificate of incorporation permits us to issue “blank check” preferred stock. Our bylaws require advance written notice prior to a meeting of stockholders of a proposal or director nomination which a stockholder desires to present at such a meeting, which generally must be received by our Secretary not later than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of our proxy statement for the preceding year’s annual meeting. Our bylaws provide that all amendments to our bylaws must be approved by either the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding capital stock entitled to vote or by a majority of our board of directors. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless the “business combination” or the transaction in which the person became an “interested stockholder” is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the “interested stockholder.” An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with 66 Table of Contents affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock, or was the owner of 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock at any time within the prior three years, other than “interested stockholders” prior to the time our common stock was quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market. The existence of this provision would be expected to have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of our common stock held by stockholders. In addition, our brokerage businesses are heavily regulated and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions which could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. The requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control. Further, our Long Term Incentive Plan contains provisions pursuant to which grants that are unexercisable or unvested may automatically become exercisable or vested as of the date immediately prior to certain change of control events. Additionally, change in control and employment agreements between us and our named executive officers also provide for payments in the event of certain change of control events. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by Cantor, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock. Delaware law may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a different effect on holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Stockholders may not be able to challenge decisions that have an adverse effect upon holders of Class A common stock if our board of directors acts in a disinterested, informed manner with respect to these decisions, in good faith and in the belief that it is acting in the best interests of our stockholders. Delaware law generally provides that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders, regardless of class or series, and does not have separate or additional duties to either group of stockholders, subject to applicable provisions set forth in a company’s charter. If our dividend policy is materially different than the distribution policy of BGC Holdings, upon the exchange of any BGC Holdings limited partnership interests, such BGC Holdings limited partners could receive a disproportionate interest in the aggregate distributions by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that have not been distributed by us. To the extent BGC Holdings distributes to its limited partners a greater share of income received from BGC U.S. and BGC Global than we distribute to our stockholders, then as founding/working partners, REU partners and/or Cantor exercise any exchange right to acquire Class A common stock or Class B common stock, as applicable, exchanging partners may receive a disproportionate interest in the aggregate distributions by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that have not been distributed by us. The reason is that the exchanging partner could receive both (1) the benefit of the distribution that have not been distributed by us from BGC U.S. and BGC Global to BGC Holdings (in the form of a distribution by BGC Holdings to its limited partners) and (2) the benefit of the distribution from BGC U.S. and BGC Global to us (in the form of a subsequent cash dividend, a greater percentage indirect interest in BGC U.S. and BGC Global following a repurchase by us or a greater value of assets following a purchase of assets with the cash that otherwise would be distributed to our stockholders). Consequently, if our dividend policy does not match the distribution policy of BGC Holdings, holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of the date of an exchange could experience a reduction in their interest in the profits previously distributed by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that have not been distributed by us. Our previously described intention to match the distribution policy of BGC Holdings was superseded by a decision (which we announced on May 7, 2008) by our board of directors to provide for greater flexibility by our management. Our current dividend policy could result in distributions to our common stockholders that are different from the distributions made by BGC Holdings to its equity holders. 67 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 