ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully review and consider the following risks as well as all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or which we believe are not material also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. To the extent any of the information contained in this annual report constitutes forward-looking information, the risk factors set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. We have experienced recurring operating losses and our liquidity has been significantly reduced. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of $19.8 million and used $8.2 million of cash in operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $48.1 million and a total stockholders’ deficit of $2.8 million. As of December 31, 2008 and February 28, 2009 we had unrestricted cash of $2.5 million and $1.1 million, respectively. Due to uncertainty about our ability to meet our current operating expenses and capital expenditures, in our report on the annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The continuation of our business is dependent upon raising additional financial support. The additional financing may be provided by common stock, debt, project financing, joint venture projects, a strategic alliance or business combination, or a combination of these. The issuance of additional equity securities by us could result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. 7 Management has plans to seek additional capital through a private placement or public offering of our common stock. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in raising additional cash to finance operations. If not, we will be required to reduce operations and/or liquidate assets and/or seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. As the largest stockholder, Prides Capital has significant influence over our company. Prides Capital will own approximately 55% of our outstanding voting common stock in the event all warrants are exercised. Therefore, as a practical matter, Prides Capital will have significant influence over the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Additionally, concentration of control in one stockholder may discourage potential investors from providing additional financing if we need it. The Company Purchase Agreement also affords Prides Capital certain participation rights and anti-dilution protections which could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing or to effect a merger or other business combination transaction. In addition, under the terms of the Company Purchase Agreement, as long as Prides Capital owns at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, the following require the approval of a majority vote of our board of directors, which majority must include at least one Prides Capital director: • authorize, create, designate, establish or issue any other class or series of capital stock ranking senior to our capital stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, or reclassification of any shares of our capital stock into shares having any preference or priority as to dividends or upon liquidation superior to any such preference or priority of our common stock; • adopt a plan for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of our company or any recapitalization plans; • amend, alter or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise our Certificate of Incorporation; • alter or change the rights, preferences or privileges of our common stock or the warrants issued to Prides Capital; or • directly or indirectly, declare or pay any dividend (other than dividends payable in shares of our common stock) or directly or indirectly purchase, redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any share of our common stock (except for shares of our common stock repurchased from current or former employees, consultants, or directors upon termination of service in accordance with plans approved by our board of directors (whether in cash, securities or property or in our obligations). Our Senior Secured Notes held by Prides Capital place certain limitations on our company. We have borrowed $15.1 million from Prides Capital in the form of three Senior Secured Notes (the “Notes”) which place certain limitations on our ability to obtain financing, sell equity or to effect a merger or other business combination transaction. The Notes and related agreements restrict our ability to enter into various transactions including, in aggregate, capital leases in excess of $2 million, other forms of indebtedness in excess of $250,000, and total investments in excess of $250,000. Additionally, we granted Prides Capital a security interest in all of our equipment, inventory, accounts, receivables, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, certain pledged equity, certain pledged debt, and certain pledged intellectual property. Furthermore, two of the Notes, with an aggregate value of $5.1 million, require pre-payment in the event of any public or private sale of equity by the Company. 8 We rely on qualified, key executive management personnel. The success of our business will also depend on our ability to hire and retain additional qualified key executive management personnel, particularly in the marketing, administrative and financial areas. Competition for qualified personnel in the Internet industry is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business could suffer. We may fail to manage our expansion and expected growth effectively, which could strain our resources and could impair the expansion of our business. Failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain our subscribers and advertising partners. We have increased the scope of our operations, including our technology, sales, administrative and marketing organizations. These factors have placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management systems and resources. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures to expand, train and manage our workforce in order to manage our expected growth. We face significant competition. In addition to Weight Watchers® International, Inc., Waterfront Media, Inc. and NutriSystem, Inc. we currently compete with several Internet sites which provide diet and nutrition information, including WeightWatchers.com. We know of several other online competitors aggressively marketing online programs which may be somewhat similar to ours, including some that are offered at no charge to the customer. Increased competition and a proliferation of free online diet plans could result in reductions in the prices we receive for our programs, lower margins, loss of customers and reduced visitor traffic to our Web site. Several of our existing competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and may be able to devote greater resources for the development and promotion of their services and products. These competitors may also engage in more extensive marketing and advertising efforts, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to advertisers and alliance partners. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete successfully. Because of volatility in the advertising markets which we target, we may not be able to effectively attract and retain subscribers. We are currently dependent in large part on the online advertising market to attract and retain subscribers to our digital plans and meal delivery service. We expect competitive pressures to continue to increase in the future which may result in higher costs in the online advertising market, thereby significantly impacting our costs to acquire and retain subscribers. Although we are currently developing alternative channels of customer acquisition, including television, print and radio advertising, there can be no assurance that these measures will as effectively attract and retain subscribers as have our online advertising programs in the past. We depend heavily on our network infrastructure and its failure could result in unanticipated expenses and prevent our subscribers from effectively utilizing our services, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers and advertisers. Our ability to successfully create and deliver our content depends in large part on the capacity, reliability and security of our networking hardware, software and telecommunications infrastructure. Failures of our network infrastructure could result in unanticipated expenses to address such failures and could prevent our subscribers from effectively utilizing our services, which could prevent us from retaining and attracting subscribers and advertisers. The hardware infrastructures on which our system operates are located in Saint Louis, Missouri, Miami, Florida and Lithia Springs, Georgia. We do not currently have a formal disaster recovery plan. Our system is susceptible to natural and man-made disasters, including war, terrorism, earthquakes, fires, floods, power loss and vandalism. Further, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could adversely affect the operation of our systems. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any damages or interruptions in our systems. Accordingly, we could incur capital expenditures in the event of unanticipated damage. In addition, our subscribers depend on Internet service providers, or ISPs, for access to our Web site. In the past, ISPs and Web sites have experienced significant system failures and could, in the future, experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. These problems could harm our business by preventing our subscribers from effectively utilizing our services. 9 The unauthorized access of confidential member information that we transmit over public networks could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain subscribers. Our subscribers transmit confidential information to us over public networks, and the unauthorized access of such information by third parties could harm our reputation and significantly hinder our efforts to attract and retain subscribers. We rely on a variety of security techniques and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer transaction data and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Problems with the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure could adversely affect the quality and reliability of the services we offer our subscribers and advertisers. We depend significantly on the Internet infrastructure to deliver attractive, reliable and timely e-mail messages to our subscribers. If Internet usage grows, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it by this growth, and its performance and reliability may decline, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain revenue growth. Among other things, continued development of the Internet infrastructure will require a reliable network backbone with necessary speed, data capacity and security. Currently, there are regular failures of the Internet network infrastructure, including outages and delays, and the frequency of these failures may increase in the future. These failures may reduce the benefits of our services to our subscribers and undermine our advertising partners’ and our subscribers’ confidence in the Internet as a viable commercial medium. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability as a commercial medium due to delays in the development or adoption of new technology required to accommodate increased levels of Internet activity or due to government regulation. These factors could adversely affect our business by adversely affecting the quality and reliability of the services we offer our customers. We may have to litigate to protect our rights or to defend claims brought against us by third parties, and such litigation may subject us to significant liability and be time consuming and expensive. We face a substantial risk of litigation, including litigation regarding intellectual property rights in Internet-related businesses. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of certain proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. We may have to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or defend ourselves against claims of violating the proprietary rights of third parties. We also face the risk of having to defend against lawsuits brought by third parties related to our business activities. For example, we depend heavily on Internet advertising, and we have been involved in both civil litigation and administrative proceedings arising out of pop-up ads and other advertising practices, in both cases brought by one of our competitors. If the outcome of similar proceedings that we may face in the future were to make certain types of advertising unavailable to us, then our marketing may become less effective and our financial results could suffer. Any of this type of litigation may subject us to significant liability for damages, result in invalidation of our proprietary rights, be time-consuming and expensive to defend, even if not meritorious, and result in the diversion of management time and attention. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business operations and financial results and condition. Government regulation and legal uncertainties of doing business on the Internet could significantly increase our costs and expenses. Laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent and these laws and regulations could significantly increase the costs we incur in using the Internet to conduct our business. The United States Congress has recently enacted Internet legislation regarding children’s privacy, commercial email, copyright and taxation. The European Union has recently adopted a directive addressing data privacy that may result in limits on the collection and use of member information. A number of other laws and regulations, including those at the state or local level, may be adopted that regulate the use of the Internet. These may include laws addressing user privacy, pricing, acceptable content, taxation, use of the telecommunications infrastructure, commercial email and quality of products and services. The laws governing the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, including those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet and Internet advertising. In addition, the growth and development of the market for Internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. As a result of these uncertainties, we may incur unanticipated, significant costs and expenses that could impact our financial results and condition. 10 The price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. In the past three years our stock has closed at prices ranging from a high of $8.26 on March 6, 2006, to a low of $1.88 on August 7, 2008. If our revenues do not grow or grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenditures exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been in the past, and could in the future be, materially and adversely affected for reasons unrelated to our specific business or results of operations. General market price declines or volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, short-term trading strategies of certain investors can also have a significant effect on the price of specific securities and the concentration of ownership our stock could lead to heightened volatility even if relatively few shares are traded. The exercise of warrants or options may depress our stock price. There are a significant number of warrants and options to purchase our common stock outstanding at prices ranging from $2.75 to $6.07 per share. Holders may sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrants and options at a market price that exceeds the exercise price of the warrants and options paid by the holders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by holders of warrants or options may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. We do not expect to pay dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the business. Therefore, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock in the form of dividends. We have authorized but unissued preferred stock, which could affect rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the preferred stock could be issued as a method of discouraging a takeover attempt. Although we do not intend to issue any preferred stock at this time, we may do so in the future. We may enter into business combinations and strategic alliances which could be difficult to integrate and may disrupt our business. We completed the Nutrio acquisition on May 18, 2006 and may continue to pursue expansion of our operations or market presence by entering into additional business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such as: • difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies; • disruption of our ongoing business; • problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; • expenses associated with amortization of purchased intangible assets; • additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses; • responsibility for liabilities of acquired businesses; and • impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. 11 We will need to keep pace with rapid technological change in the e-commerce and Internet subscription diet and wellness plan industries. In order to remain competitive, we will be continually required to enhance and to improve the functionality and features of our subscription products and web site, which could require us to invest significant capital. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technology, and systems may become obsolete and we may not have the funds or technical know-how to upgrade our services, technology, and systems. We may face material delays in introducing new services, products, and enhancements. If such delays occur, our users may forego use of our services and select those of our competitors, in which event, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely on a third party to provide us with adequate food supplies and fulfillment services, the loss of any of which could harm our meal delivery business. We currently depend on a single third party meal delivery vendor for manufacture and fulfillment of our prepared meals with its operations centered in one location. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantity, quality and variety of food and fulfillment of customer orders in a timely and low-cost manner from this manufacturer, we will be unable to adequately fulfill our customers’ orders which would adversely affect our operating results and damage the value of our brand. If we pursue comparative advertising, we may be subject to litigation from our competitors. If we pursue comparative advertising, our competitors may pursue litigation regardless of its merit and chances of success. Defending such litigation may be lengthy and costly, strain our resources and divert management’s attention from growing the business, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. The recent global economic crisis, changes in discretionary spending and the availability of consumer credit could negatively impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Because our meal delivery offerings consist of freshly prepared meals, they are priced higher than major competitors such as Nutrisystem and Jenny Craig. The success of our meal delivery business is therefore dependent on customers’ willingness and ability to invest a larger percentage of discretionary spending in our meal delivery products than may be required with our competitors’ products. A decline in our customers’ discretionary spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. More generally, our business could be adversely affected by broader economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy and changes in disposable consumer income, as well as any reduction in the accessibility of credit card debt which facilitates most of our customer transactions. These risks are more pronounced in light of the recent global economic crisis and the ensuing disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, all of which have impacted levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomics developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. The sale of prepared meals and nutritional supplements involves product liability and other risks. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our prepared meal delivery products and nutritional supplements results in illness or injury. In the U.S. we are subject to laws and regulations, including those administered by the United States Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration that establish manufacturing practices and quality standards for food products. We may also be subject to claims that our products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled, include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business as our contract indemnification rights and existing insurance coverage may not be adequate. Distributors of food products, vitamins, and nutritional supplements are frequently named as defendants in product liability lawsuits. The successful assertion or settlement of an uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims or a claim exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage would harm us by adding costs to the business and by diverting the attention of senior management. Product liability litigation or regulatory action, even if not meritorious, is very expensive and could also entail adverse publicity for us and reduce our revenue. 12 