ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks. The Company has a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit and expects to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Since inception through December 31, 2007, the Company has incurred cumulative losses of $90,815,779 and has never generated enough funds through operations to support its business. Additional capital may be required in order to provide working capital requirements for the next twelve months. The Company’s losses to date have resulted principally from: · research and development costs relating to the development of the Telkonet iWire SystemTM product suite; · costs and expenses associated with manufacturing, distribution and marketing of the Company’s products; · general and administrative costs relating to the Company’s operations; and · interest expense related to the Company’s indebtedness. 11 The Company is currently unprofitable and may never become profitable. Since inception, the Company has funded its research and development activities primarily from private placements of equity and debt securities, a bank loan and short term loans from certain of its executive officers. As a result of its substantial research and development expenditures and limited product revenues, the Company has incurred substantial net losses. The Company’s ability to achieve profitability will depend primarily on its ability to successfully commercialize the Telkonet iWire SystemTM product suite. If the Company is not successful in generating sufficient liquidity from operations or in raising sufficient capital resources on terms acceptable to the Company, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our independent auditors have added an explanatory paragraph to their report of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 stating that our net losses, lack of revenues and dependence on our ability to raise additional capital to continue our existence, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are not successful in raising sufficient additional capital, we may we may not be able to continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment in us. Potential fluctuations in operating results could have a negative effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, most of which are outside the Company’s control, including: · the level of use of the Internet; · the demand for high-tech goods; · the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of the Company’s operations; · price competition or pricing changes in the industry; · technical difficulties or system downtime; · economic conditions specific to the internet and communications industry; and · general economic conditions. The Company’s quarterly results may also be significantly impacted by certain accounting treatment of acquisitions, financing transactions or other matters. Such accounting treatment could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations and have a negative impact on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s directors and executive officers own a substantial percentage of the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock. Their ownership could allow them to exercise significant control over corporate decisions. As of March 1, 2008, the Company’s officers and directors owned 11.2% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock. This means that the Company’s officers and directors, as a group, exercise significant control over matters upon which the Company’s stockholders may vote, including the selection of the Board of Directors, mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current stockholders. Although the funds that were raised in the Company’s debenture offerings, the note offerings and the private placement of common stock are being used for general working capital purposes, it is likely that the Company will be required to seek additional capital in the future. This capital funding could involve one or more types of equity securities, including convertible debt, common or convertible preferred stock and warrants to acquire common or preferred stock. Such equity securities could be issued at or below the then-prevailing market price for the Company’s common stock. Any issuance of additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be dilutive to existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. 12 The exercise of options and warrants outstanding and available for issuance may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding employee options to purchase a total of 8,105,429 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.00 to $5.97 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.98. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding non-employee options to purchase a total of 1,815,937 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had warrants outstanding to purchase a total of 7,673,627 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.59 to $4.70 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $4.15. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the sale in the public market of the shares purchased upon such exercise will be dilutive to existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The powerline communications industry is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The Company operates in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and the Company’s future success will depend on its ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance in commercial and governmental sectors. The Company will also need to respond effectively to new product announcements by its competitors by quickly introducing competitive products. Delays in product development and introduction could result in: · loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; · negative publicity and damage to the Company’s reputation and brand; and · decline in the average selling price of the Company’s products. The communication industry is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The Company operates in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new services and service enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance in MDU and commercial sectors. The Company will also need to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products. Delays in product development and introduction could result in: · loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; · negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand; and · decline in the selling price of our products and services. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market, thus increasing the competition. This could also have a negative impact on our ability to obtain additional capital from investors. Larger companies who have been engaged in our business for substantially longer periods of time may have access to greater resources. These companies may have greater success in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, as well as in conducting their operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If the Company is unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Large companies including Direct TV, EchoStar, Time Warner, Cablevision and Verizon are active in our markets in the provision and distribution of communications services and we will have to compete with such companies. 13 The Company is not large enough to negotiate cable television programming contracts as favorable as some of our larger competitors. Programming costs are generally directly related to the number of subscribers to which the programming is provided, with discounts available to large traditional cable operators and direct broadcast satellite (DBS) providers based on their high subscriber levels. As a result, larger cable and DBS systems generally pay lower per subscriber programming costs. The Company has attempted to obtain volume discounts from our suppliers. Despite these efforts, we believe that our per subscriber programming costs are significantly higher than large cable operators and DBS providers with which we compete in some of our markets. This may put us at a competitive disadvantage in terms of maintaining our operating results while remaining competitive with prices offered by these providers. In addition, as programming agreements come up for renewal, the Company cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these agreements on comparable or favorable terms. To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with a programmer on terms that we believe are reasonable, we may be forced to remove programming from our line-up, which could result in a loss of customers. Programming costs have risen in past years and are expected to continue to rise, which may adversely affect our financial results. The cost of acquiring programming is a significant portion of the operating costs for our cable television business. These costs have increased each year and we expect them to continue to increase, especially the costs associated with sports programming. Many of our programming contracts cover multiple years and provide for future increases in the fees we must pay. Historically, we have absorbed increased programming costs in large part through increased prices to our customers. However, competitive and other marketplace factors may not permit us to continue to pass these costs through to customers. In order to minimize the negative impact that increased programming costs may have on our margins, we may pursue a variety of strategies, including offering some programming at premium prices or moving some programming from our analog service to our premium digital services. Despite our efforts to manage programming expenses and pricing, the rising cost of programming may adversely affect our results of operations. Government regulation of the Company’s products could impair the Company’s ability to sell such products in certain markets. FCC rules permit the operation of unlicensed digital devices that radiate radio frequency emissions if the manufacturer complies with certain equipment authorization procedures, technical requirements, marketing restrictions and product labeling requirements. Differing technical requirements apply to “Class A” devices intended for use in commercial settings, and “Class B” devices intended for residential use to which more stringent standards apply. An independent, FCC-certified testing lab has verified that the Company’s iWire SystemTM product suite complies with the FCC technical requirements for Class A and Class B digital devices. No further testing of these devices is required and the devices may be manufactured and marketed for commercial and residential use. Additional devices designed by the Company for commercial and residential use will be subject to the FCC rules for unlicensed digital devices. Moreover, if in the future, the FCC changes its technical requirements for unlicensed digital devices, further testing and/or modifications of devices may be necessary. Failure to comply with any FCC technical requirements could impair the Company’s ability to sell its products in certain markets and could have a negative impact on its business and results of operations. Products sold by the Company’s competitors could become more popular than the Company’s products or render the Company’s products obsolete. The market for powerline communications products is highly competitive. The HomePlug(TM) Powerline Alliance has grown over the past year and now includes many well recognized brands in the networking and communications industries. These include Linksys (a Cisco company), Intel, GE, Motorola, Netgear, Sony and Samsung. With the exception of Motorola, who recently introduced a commercial product, these companies do not presently represent a direct competitive threat to the Company since they only market and sell their products in the residential sector. There can be no assurance that other companies will not develop PLC products that compete with the Company’s products in the future. Some of these potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. These potential competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers and exert more influence on the sales channel than the Company can. As a result, the Company may not be able to compete successfully with these potential competitors and these potential competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more widely accepted than those being developed by the Company or that would render the Company’s products obsolete or noncompetitive. The Company anticipates that potential competitors will also intensify their efforts to penetrate the Company’s target markets. These potential competitors may have more advanced technology, more extensive distribution channels, stronger brand names, bigger promotional budgets and larger customer bases than the Company does. These companies could devote more capital resources to develop, manufacture and market competing products than the Company could. If any of these companies are successful in competing against the Company, its sales could decline, its margins could be negatively impacted, and the Company could lose market share, any of which could seriously harm the Company’s business and results of operations. 14 The failure of the internet to continue as an accepted medium for business commerce could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s long-term viability is substantially dependent upon the continued widespread acceptance and use of the Internet as a medium for business commerce. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users. There can be no assurance that the Internet infrastructure will continue to be able to support the demands placed on it by this continued growth. In addition, delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased levels of Internet activity or increased governmental regulation could slow or stop the growth of the Internet as a viable medium for business commerce. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet (including security, reliability, accessibility and quality of service) remain unresolved and may adversely affect the growth of Internet use or the attractiveness of its use for business commerce. The failure of the necessary infrastructure to further develop in a timely manner or the failure of the Internet to continue to develop rapidly as a valid medium for business would have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may not be able to obtain patents, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s ability to compete effectively in the powerline technology industry will depend on its success in acquiring suitable patent protection. The Company currently has several patents pending. The Company also intends to file additional patent applications that it deems to be economically beneficial. If the Company is not successful in obtaining patents, it will have limited protection against those who might copy its technology. As a result, the failure to obtain patents could negatively impact the Company’s business and results of operations. Infringement by third parties on the Company’s proprietary technology and development of substantially equivalent proprietary technology by the Company’s competitors could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company’s success depends partly on its ability to maintain patent and trade secret protection, to obtain future patents and licenses, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that the measures the Company has taken to protect its intellectual property, including those integrated to its Telkonet iWire SystemTM product suite, will prevent misappropriation or circumvention. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent application, when filed, will result in an issued patent, or that the Company’s existing patents, or any patents that may be issued in the future, will provide the Company with significant protection against competitors. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to, or licensed by, the Company will not be infringed upon or circumvented by others. Infringement by third parties on the Company’s proprietary technology could negatively impact its business. Moreover, litigation to establish the validity of patents, to assert infringement claims against others, and to defend against patent infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is in the Company’s favor. The Company also relies to a lesser extent on unpatented proprietary technology, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, techniques or processes or that the Company can meaningfully protect its rights to such unpatented proprietary technology. Development of substantially equivalent technology by the Company’s competitors could negatively impact its business. The Company depends on a small team of senior management, and it may have difficulty attracting and retaining additional personnel. The Company’s future success will depend in large part upon the continued services and performance of senior management and other key personnel. If the Company loses the services of any member of its senior management team, its overall operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s future success will depend on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, purchasing and customer service personnel when they are needed. Competition for these individuals is intense. The Company cannot ensure that it will be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel when the need arises. Any failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, marketing, purchasing and customer service personnel could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 15 Any acquisitions we make could result in difficulties in successfully managing our business and consequently harm our financial condition. We may seek to expand by acquiring competing businesses in our current or other geographic markets, including as a means to acquire spectrum. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments that might be required. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may lead to higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses, if any, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including: · failure of the acquired businesses to achieve expected results; · diversion of management’s attention and resources to acquisitions; · failure to retain key customers or personnel of the acquired businesses; · disappointing quality or functionality of acquired equipment and people: and · risks associated with unanticipated events, liabilities or contingencies. Client dissatisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired business could negatively affect our reputation. The inability to acquire businesses on reasonable terms or successfully integrate and manage acquired companies, or the occurrence of performance problems at acquired companies, could result in dilution, unfavorable accounting treatment or one-time charges and difficulties in successfully managing our business. Our inability to obtain capital, use internally generated cash or debt, or use shares of our common stock to finance future acquisitions could impair the growth and expansion of our business. Reliance on internally generated cash or debt to finance our operations or complete acquisitions could substantially limit our operational and financial flexibility. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use shares of our common stock to consummate acquisitions will depend on our market value which will vary, and liquidity. Using shares of our common stock for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to our then existing stockholders. To the extent that we are unable to use our common stock to make future acquisitions, our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital through debt or additional equity financings. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital to finance any acquisitions or our other cash needs. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce the scope of any expansion or redirect resources committed to internal purposes. In addition to requiring funding for acquisitions, we may need additional funds to implement our internal growth and operating strategies or to finance other aspects of our operations. Our failure to: (i) obtain additional capital on acceptable terms; (ii) use internally generated cash or debt to complete acquisitions because it significantly limits our operational or financial flexibility; or (iii) use shares of our common stock to make future acquisitions, may hinder our ability to actively pursue our acquisition program. We rely on a limited number of third party suppliers. If these companies fail to perform or experience delays, shortages, or increased demand for their products or services, we may face shortages, increased costs, and may be required to suspend deployment of our products and services. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers to provide the components and the equipment required to deliver our solutions. If these providers fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or we are unable to renew these agreements, we may be forced to suspend the sale and deployment of our products and services and enrollment of new customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our management and operational systems might be inadequate to handle our potential growth. We may experience growth that could place a significant strain upon our management and operational systems and resources. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete effectively as a provider of PLC technology and a provider of digital satellite television and high-speed Internet products and services and to manage future growth will require us to continue to improve our operational systems, organization and financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may fail to make these improvements effectively. Additionally, our efforts to make these improvements may divert the focus of our personnel. We must integrate our key executives into a cohesive management team to expand our business. If new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the growth we will need to increase our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. We may not be able to effectively manage such growth, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 We may be affected if the United States participates in wars or military or other action or by international terrorism. Involvement in a war or other military action or acts of terrorism may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in (i) delays or cancellations of customer orders, (ii) a general decrease in consumer spending on information technology, (iii) our inability to effectively market and distribute our services or products or (iv) our inability to access capital markets, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the involvement in a war or other military action will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such involvement or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. A significant portion of our total assets consists of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. We have goodwill totaling approximately $14.7 million at December 31, 2007 resulting from recent and past acquisitions. We evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the operating business units to which this goodwill relates at least once a year. This estimated fair value could change if we are unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of those business units decreases based on transactions involving similar companies, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by the business units. These changes could result in an impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. At December 31, 2007, the Company performed an impairment test on the goodwill and intangibles acquired, it was determined that there were no changes in the carrying value of the intangibles acquired. However, based upon managements assessment of operating results and forecasted discounted cash flow the carrying value of MSTI goodwill was determined to be impaired and therefore the entire value of $1,977,768 was written off during the year ended December 31, 2007. MSTI may be unable to register for resale all of the common stock included within the units sold in its Private Placement, which would cause a default under the Registration Rights Agreement executed in connection with such Private Placement. MSTI is obligated to file a “resale” registration statement with the SEC that covers all of the common stock included within the units sold in the private placement and issuable upon conversion of its debentures and the exercise of the warrants thereto and to use its best efforts to have such “resale” registration statement declared effective by the SEC as set forth therein. Nevertheless, it is possible that the SEC may not permit MSTI to register all of such shares of common stock for resale. In certain circumstances, the SEC may take the view that the private placement requires MSTI to register the issuance of the securities as a primary offering. Without sufficient disclosure of this risk, rescission of the private placement could be sought by investors or an offer of rescission may be mandated by the SEC, which would result in a material adverse affect to MSTI and us since we consolidate the financial statements of MSTI. MSTI has agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC within 60 days of the final closing of the Private Placement and the issuance of the Debentures and to use its best efforts to have the registration statement declared effective by the SEC within 120 days after the final closing of the private placement and the original issuance of the debentures. There are many reasons, including those over which MSTI has no control, which could delay the filing or effectiveness of the registration statement, including delays resulting from the SEC review process and comments raised by the SEC during that process. Failure to file or cause a registration statement to become effective in a timely manner or maintain its effectiveness could materially adversely affect MSTI and require MSTI to pay substantial penalties to the holders of those securities pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreement. Since we consolidate the financial statements of MSTI, the incurrence of a significant penalty by MSTI under the Registration Rights Agreement could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 17 Obligations to the holders of MSTI’s debentures are secured by all of MSTI’s assets, so if we default on those obligations, the debenture holders could foreclose on MSTI’s assets. The holders of MSTI’s debentures have a security interest in all of MSTI’s assets and those of its subsidiary. As a result, if we default under our obligations to the debenture holders, the debenture holders could foreclose their security interests and liquidate some or all of these assets, which may cause MSTI to cease operations. MSTI’s indebtedness and restrictive debt covenants could limit MSTI’s financing options and liquidity position, which would limit MSTI’s ability to grow our business. The terms of MSTI’s outstanding debentures could have negative consequences, such as: · MSTI may be unable to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, operating losses, capital expenditures or acquisitions on terms acceptable to MSTI, or at all; · MSTI may be unable to refinance its indebtedness on terms acceptable to MSTI, or at all; and · MSTI may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit MSTI’s ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additionally, covenants in the securities purchase agreement governing the debentures impose operating and financial restrictions on MSTI. These restrictions prohibit or limit MSTI’s ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: · pay cash dividends to our stockholders; · incur additional indebtedness; · permit liens on assets or conduct sales of assets; and · engage in transactions with affiliates. These restrictions may limit MSTI’s ability to obtain additional financing, withstand downturns in MSTI’s business or take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, additional debt financing MSTI may seek may contain terms that include more restrictive covenants, may require repayment on an accelerated schedule or may impose other obligations that limit the ability to grow MSTI’s business, acquire needed assets, or take other actions MSTI might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable. MSTI's restrictive debt covenant requires Frank Matarazzo, Chief Executive Officer of MSTI, to be in his current position through term of the Debenture agreement. On January 31, 2008, the Company amended the Convertible Debenture agreement requiring indicating that if Frank T. Matarazzo shall cease to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the MSTI it may constitute an event of default. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report dated March 31, 2008, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors’ doubts are based on our incurring net losses and deficits in cash flows from operations. We continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including by the sale of our securities, or obtaining loans from financial institutions, where possible. Our continued net operating losses and our auditors’ doubts increase the difficulty of our meeting such goals and our efforts to continue as a going concern may not prove successful. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 