ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may incur losses in the future. While we were profitable in 2005, as we continue to develop our systems and infrastructure and expand our brand recognition and client base through increased hiring of sales and other personnel, we may incur losses in the future. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by changes in the U.S. Treasury markets and a reduction in our market position in the U.S. Treasury markets. Our business is highly dependent upon the volume of bonds being traded through our eSpeed system. We believe that we have historically been a leader in the U.S. Treasury benchmark market, and our revenues are concentrated in this business. Because our business is highly concentrated in the government bond markets of the world, particularly U.S. Treasuries, our business, revenues and profitability could be adversely impacted by various factors, including U.S. Treasury market position declines and interest rate volatility, as well as competition within the marketplace. During 2004 and the beginning of 2005, our market position in the U.S. Treasury market declined, resulting in a material adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Although our position in the U.S. Treasury market has improved in recent quarters relative to 2005 lows, market position declines from current levels would adversely affect our business revenues and profitability. If we do not expand the use of our electronic systems, or if our clients do not use our marketplaces or services, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. The success of our business plan depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of trading firms, dealers, banks and other financial institutions that use our interactive electronic marketplaces. This is particularly important in the early years of a new marketplace where we attempt to attract a critical mass of participants or in a mature marketplace where certain revenues are concentrated from key clients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our marketplaces, or that we will be able to retain the current participants in our marketplaces. Although some of our agreements with market participants require certain minimum payments, none of our agreements with market participants require them to use our electronic marketplaces and from time to time, we may experience departures of key clients or reduction in volumes from such clients which 18 may adversely affect our revenues. Additionally, we currently expect to enter into strategic alliances with other market participants, such as retail brokers, exchanges, market makers, consortia, clearinghouses, major market participants and technology companies, in order to increase client access to and use of our electronic marketplaces. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to enter into these strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that our current or future strategic alliances will be successful. If we experience low trading volume in products or if we are unable to capture demand for new products, our revenues and profitability could suffer. From time to time, we have experienced significant fluctuations in the aggregate trading volume of products being traded in our marketplaces. We believe that fluctuations in the trading volume of products traded in our marketplaces could occur in the future from time to time and in such event, could have a direct impact on our future operating results. This could cause significant fluctuations in our revenues and profitability when the trading volumes are low. In addition, we may experience difficultly in creating demand for new fully-electronic products or in attracting customers or market makers on a large scale with respect to certain new products. Failure to capture customers for such products may have an adverse impact on our revenues or profitability. Our revenues and profitability could be limited or otherwise adversely affected by pricing plans relating to commissions and fees on our trading platform. We negotiate from time to time with certain of our customers (including many of our largest customers) to enter into customized pricing plans. In many of these pricing plans, the aggregate amount of transaction fees payable by a client for certain products is capped on a monthly, quarterly or other basis. While the fee cap is designed to encourage our clients to be more active on our electronic trading platform, the fee cap limits the maximum amount of commissions payable to us by certain of our most active clients, which could limit our revenues and constrain our profitability. If we are unable to enter into additional marketing and strategic alliances or our current or future strategic alliances are not successful, we may not generate increased trading in our integrated hybrid voice-assisted and our fully electronic marketplaces. We expect to continue to enter into strategic alliances with other market participants, such as retail brokers, exchanges, market makers, consortia, clearinghouses, major market participants and technology companies, in order to increase client access to and use of our electronic marketplaces. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to enter into these strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that our current or future strategic alliances will be successful. The success of our current and future relationships will depend on the amount of increased trading in our integrated hybrid voice-assisted and our fully electronic marketplaces and the liquidity generated therein. These arrangements may not generate the expected number of new clients or increased trading volume we are seeking. If Cantor or we are unable to protect the intellectual property rights we own or license from Cantor, our ability to operate electronic marketplaces may be materially adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We license some of our patented technology from Cantor. The license arrangement is exclusive, except in the event that (i) we are unwilling to provide to Cantor any requested services covered by the patents with respect to a marketplace and Cantor elects not to require us to do so, or we are unable to provide such services or (ii) we do not exercise our right of first refusal to provide to Cantor or its affiliates electronic brokerage services with respect to a marketplace, in which case Cantor retains a limited right to use the patents and patent applications solely in connection with the operation of that marketplace. We cannot guarantee that the concepts which are the subject of the patents and patent applications covered by the license from Cantor or that we own are patentable or that issued patents are or will be valid and enforceable or that such concepts will be marketable or profitable for our 19 business. Where patents are granted in the U.S., we can give no assurance that equivalent patents will be granted in Europe or elsewhere, as a result of differences in local laws affecting patentability and validity. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that Cantor’s issued patents or our issued patents are valid and enforceable, or that third parties competing or intending to compete with us will not infringe any of these patents. Despite precautions we or Cantor has taken or may take to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to monitor unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property rights. We have had to resort to costly litigation to protect and defend certain of our intellectual property rights; some rulings to date have not been in our favor. We are currently involved in costly litigation to protect and defend certain of our intellectual property rights and may be subject to such litigation in the future. Some rulings to date have not been in our favor. See ‘‘Item 3. Legal Proceedings.’’ We may have to continue to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend ourselves from claims of invalidity or unenforceability. We may incur substantial costs and diversion of resources as a result of litigation, even if we win. In the event we do not win, we may have to pay the attorneys’ fees and costs of the other party. We may also have to expend resources to modify existing products or lose opportunities to generate potential future revenues or create future barriers to entry. The outcome of these cases may result in an adverse financial impact on our business, including a charge to earnings as a result of impairment of our intellectual property or payments, required by any adverse decision or loss of intellectual property rights. Such results may be unpredictable and may from time to time have a material impact on our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows in a given period. If we infringe on the intellectual property of others, we could become involved in costly litigation and suffer adverse results. Intellectual property rights of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents or copyrights containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. We are currently defending a patent infringement claim. See ‘‘Item 3. Legal Proceedings.’’ In addition, patent applications in the U.S. are generally confidential until a patent is issued. As a result, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to pay damages, to obtain licenses to develop and market the products and services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our operations, adversely affect our market position, lead to increased competition in the marketplaces in which we provide our products and services and otherwise have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in a given period. Defense and litigation of third-party infringement claims against us, with or without merit, have been and may continue to be costly to us. If our software licenses from third parties are terminated, our ability to operate our business may be materially adversely affected. We license database and other software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are terminable if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. If any of these relationships were terminated or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. However, we cannot assure you that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. 20 If the strength of our brand names is diluted, the value of our proprietary rights may decrease. We own many Internet domain names, including ‘‘www.espeed.com.’’ The regulation of domain names in the U.S. and in foreign countries may change and the strength of our brand names could be diluted. We may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We use our eSpeed registered trademark and service mark for the products and services described herein and have registered that trademark and service mark in a number of jurisdictions around the world. We are not presently aware of any third-party objections to our use or registration of our eSpeed registered trademark or service mark in any countries, or of any third-party trademark or service marks that are likely to pose an impediment to our use or registration of our eSpeed registered trademark or service mark in any countries. Nevertheless, there is always a possibility that an objection by a third-party trademark or service mark owner could potentially affect the registration, and/or limit our use, of our eSpeed registered trademark or service mark in one or more countries, thereby requiring us to adopt and use another trademark or service mark for our products and services in such country or countries. We have been named in a purported class action litigation, the defense of which is likely to be costly, and an adverse decision could result in a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in a given period. In the first quarter of 2005, we were named in a number of purported class action complaints against us, Cantor and certain affiliated entities, as well as three of our executive officers Howard Lutnick, Lee Amaitis and Joseph Noviello, and one former officer, Jeffrey Chertoff. The class action was purportedly filed on behalf of all persons who purchased the securities of eSpeed from August 12, 2003 to July 1, 2004, alleging that we made ‘‘material false positive statements during the class period’’ and violated certain provisions of the Exchange Act, and certain rules and regulations thereunder. See ‘‘Item 3. Legal Proceedings.’’ Defending ourselves from these purported class action claims is likely to be costly. Although we believe such claims are without merit, outcomes are unpredictable and an adverse decision could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a given period. Due to intense competition, our market position and financial performance have suffered and may continue to suffer. The electronic trading and Internet-based financial services markets are highly competitive, and many of our competitors are more established and have greater financial resources than us. Many of our competitors also have greater market presence, financial, engineering and marketing capabilities and technological and personnel resources than we do. As a result of this intense competition, our market position and financial performance have suffered in the past and may continue to suffer as a result of competitive pressures. We expect that competition will intensify in the future. In particular, our market position and financial performance may continue to suffer if our competitors: • develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly; • adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services; • aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into or expand their market share to build client relationships in market segments in which we have significant market share today; and • leverage relationships with clients and strategic partners more effectively or exploit more recognized brand names to market and sell their services. Our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include interdealer brokerage firms, multi-dealer trading companies, technology companies and market data and information vendors, 21 securities and futures exchanges, electronic communications networks, crossing systems, software companies, consortia, business-to-business marketplace infrastructure companies and niche market energy and other commodity business-to-business Internet-based trading systems. BrokerTec Global LLC, a global electronic bond trading platform, owned by ICAP, an interdealer broker in the financial markets, is a significant competitor for us in electronic trading of government securities. In foreign exchange, we compete with EBS and Reuters, as well as a number of smaller electronic trading platforms. The futures market has a number of different order-routing and ISV solutions for electronic trading, including Trading Technologies and other providers. GFI Group, Inc. is currently active in credit derivatives, a market in which we compete with them. We believe that we may also face future competition from large computer software companies, media and technology companies and some securities brokerage firms that are currently our clients as well as from any future strategic alliances, joint ventures, or other partnerships created by one of more of our competitors. The number of businesses providing Internet-based financial and non-financial services is rapidly growing, and other companies, in addition to those named above, have entered into or are forming joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. Others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. If we experience computer systems failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our operations could be harmed. We internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations. Our data centers could be subject to failure due to environmental factors, power outage and other factors. Accordingly, we may be subject to system failures and outages which might impact our revenues and relationship with customers. In addition, we are subject to risk in the event that systems of our partners, customers, clients or vendors, including Cantor and BGC, are subject to failures and outages. We also rely and expect to rely on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, clearance organizations and software and hardware vendors. Our systems, or those of our third-party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; • slower response times; • delays in our clients’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • financial losses; • litigation or other client claims; and • regulatory sanctions. We experienced systems and telecommunications failures in connection with the September 11 Events. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional systems failures in the future from power or telecommunications failure, acts of God or war, terrorist attacks, human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name. The financial markets in which we operate are generally affected by seasonality. Traditionally, the financial markets around the world experience lower volume during the summer and at the end of the year due to a general slowdown in the business environment and, therefore, our 22 transaction volume levels may decrease during those periods. The timing of the holidays also affects transaction volume. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance in a given period. We operate in a rapidly evolving business environment. If we are unable to adapt our business effectively to keep pace with these changes, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. The pace of change in our market is extremely rapid. Operating in such a rapidly changing business environment involves a high degree of risk. Our ability to succeed will depend on our ability to adapt effectively to these changing market conditions. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, we may not be able to compete effectively. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary software, network distribution systems and technologies. Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological changes, changes in use and client requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop, license and defend intellectual property useful in our business; • enhance our existing services; • develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective clients; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. The development of proprietary electronic trading technology entails significant technical, financial and business risks. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify, adapt and defend our technology. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standard, or that we will be able to successfully defend any challenges to any technology we develop. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could make our clients hesitant to use our electronic marketplaces. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service vendors, including Cantor and BGC and associated clearing corporations, and our clients may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could make our clients hesitant to use our electronic marketplaces. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. The September 11 Events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Our losses Our previous headquarters were in the World Trade Center. As a result of the September 11 Events, our offices in the World Trade Center were destroyed, and we lost approximately 180 of our 23 employees, including many members of our senior management. The destruction of our assets, the loss of all those employees, including product development personnel, and the need to relocate the surviving employees have negatively impacted our business. Cantor’s losses Cantor and TradeSpark lost an aggregate of 478 employees and critical equipment and systems as a result of the September 11 Events. Cantor also lost its headquarters. Such losses have negatively impacted our revenues and may continue to adversely impact our revenues in the future since, among other things, Cantor is not currently trading many of the financial products its voice brokers historically traded using our eSpeed system. In addition, the loss of Cantor’s assets and brokers will negatively affect our strategy to convert certain of the products that those brokers were trading in voice-assisted transactions to products that are traded fully electronically over our eSpeed system, or to provide integrated hybrid voice-assisted trading services to such voice-brokers. If we were to lose the services of members of management and employees who possess specialized market knowledge and technology skills, we may not be able to manage our operations effectively or develop new electronic marketplaces. Our future success depends, in significant part, on the continued service of Howard Lutnick, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lee Amaitis, our Vice Chairman, Kevin Foley, our President, Paul Saltzman, our Chief Operating Officer, and our other executive officers, managers and sales and technical personnel who possess extensive knowledge and technology skills in our markets. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement for Mr. Lutnick or other executive officers if the need should arise. Any loss or interruption of Mr. Lutnick’s services could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or develop new electronic marketplaces. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Foley and Saltzman, we have not entered into employment agreements with any of our other executive officers or other personnel, including Mr. Lutnick or Mr. Amaitis. Although we have obtained $15 million in ‘‘key person’’ life insurance on the life of Mr. Lutnick, we do not have ‘‘key person’’ life insurance policies on any of our other executive officers or personnel. Mr. Foley and Mr. Saltzman, while solely employees of eSpeed, are also partners of Cantor. All of the other members of our senior management team are also officers, partners or key employees of Cantor or BGC and most have substantial investments in Cantor through partnership unit ownership. As a result, they dedicate only a portion of their professional efforts to our business and operations. We cannot assure you that the time these persons devote to our business and operations in the future will be adequate and that we will not experience an adverse effect on our operations due to the demands placed on our management team by their other professional obligations. We intend to strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our clients. Our ability to do so will depend, in large part, upon the individual employees who represent us in our dealings with clients. The market for qualified programmers, technicians and sales persons is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as electronic commerce has experienced growth. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. If the value of the dollar against the other currencies in which we pay expenses continues to decline, our profitability could suffer. Because our business is global, dramatic changes in currency rates can impact our results. Significant downward movements in the U.S. Dollar against other currencies in which we pay expenses may have an adverse impact on our financial results if we do not have an equivalent amount of income denominated in the same currency. For example, the British Pound has appreciated significantly since the third quarter of 2003. If adverse economic and political conditions occur, substantial declines in the U.S. and global financial services markets may result and our results of operations and profitability could suffer. The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may 24 cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume and turnover. These events could have a material adverse effect on our results and profitability. These factors include: • economic and political conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world; • terrorist attacks or war; • concerns over inflation and wavering institutional/consumer confidence levels; • the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; • fluctuating interest and exchange rates; • legislative and regulatory changes; and • currency values. Because we expect to continue to expand our operations internationally, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. We operate integrated hybrid voice-assisted and fully electronic marketplaces throughout Europe and Asia and we plan to further expand our operations throughout these regions and other regions in the future. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry. These risks include: • less developed automation in exchanges, depositories and national clearing systems; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • fluctuations in exchange rates; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business. These may include laws, rules and regulations relating to any aspect of the securities business, including sales methods, capital structure, record-keeping, broker-dealer and employee registration requirements and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction. The growth of the Internet as a means of conducting international business has also raised many legal issues regarding, among other things, the circumstances in which countries or other jurisdictions have the right to regulate Internet services that may be available to their citizens from service providers located elsewhere. In many cases, there are no laws, regulations, judicial decisions or governmental interpretations that clearly resolve these issues. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to use the Internet to expand our international operations, and creates the risk that we could be subject to disciplinary sanctions or other penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations. As we enter new financial markets, we may not be able to successfully adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. We are leveraging our eSpeed system to enter new financial markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software, electronic distribution networks and technology for use in other markets. Even if we do adapt our software, networks and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. We cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities 25 will be successful. If these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. We intend to create electronic marketplaces for many financial markets and extend into others, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. If we or our customers or affiliates acquire other companies, we may not be able to integrate their operations effectively. Our business strategy contemplates expansion through the acquisition of exchanges and other companies providing services or having technologies and operations that are complementary to ours. In addition, BGC has experienced significant growth through acquisitions of brokers both in the U.S. and abroad in recent periods. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations and products; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings; and • potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure you that we or our customers or affiliates will be able to integrate successfully any operations, personnel, services or products that might be acquired in the future, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Because our business is subject to extensive government and other regulation, we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct our operations and our customers and affiliates may be subject to limitations on their operations as a result of government regulation. The Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other agencies extensively regulate the U.S. financial industry. Our international operations may become subject to similar regulations in specific jurisdictions. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are required to comply strictly with the rules and regulations of these agencies. As a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. Most aspects of our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: • the way we deal with our clients; • our capital requirements; • our financial and Securities and Exchange Commission reporting practices; • required record-keeping and record retention procedures; • the licensing of our employees; and • the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. If we or our affiliates, including Cantor or BGC, fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we or our affiliates may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as a broker-dealer. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business. These agencies have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish non-compliance with their rules and regulations. We cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with, and will not be subject to, claims or actions by these agencies. The products and services we offer through our integrated hybrid voice-assisted and fully electronic marketplaces are likely to be regulated by federal, state and foreign governments. Our ability to 26 provide such services will be affected by these regulations. In addition, as we expand our business to other financial markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional federal, state and foreign regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. Further, the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules and regulations with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by regulated companies such as our subsidiaries, affiliates and customers. Net capital is the net worth of a broker or dealer, less deductions for certain types of assets. If a firm fails to maintain the required net capital, it may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASD, and suspension or expulsion by these regulators could ultimately lead to the firm’s liquidation. If these net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations of our customers, affiliates or subsidiaries that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from broker-dealer subsidiaries could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business by us, our customers and affiliates and subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may become subject to net capital requirements in foreign jurisdictions. Because brokerage services involve substantial risks of liability, we may become subject to risks of litigation. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients frequently make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. We and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of systems and services provided by us, and third parties may seek recourse against us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could result in our obligation to pay substantial damages. If we cannot deter employee misconduct, we may be harmed. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities from us. In either case, this type of conduct could result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to secure additional financing. We anticipate, based on management’s experience and current industry trends, that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, capital expenditure and regulatory net capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we believe that there are a significant number of capital intensive opportunities for us to maximize our growth and strategic position, including, among other things, acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances, reorganizations, recapitalizations or other investments. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds to: • increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; • support more rapid growth in our business; • develop new or enhanced services and products; • respond to competitive pressures; 27 • acquire complementary technologies; • enter into strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures; • acquire companies with marketplace or other specific domain expertise; and • respond to unanticipated requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing when needed on terms that are acceptable, if at all. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated and may fluctuate in the future, and future sales of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We have also repurchased our shares from time to time, and we may cease doing so at anytime. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated widely since our initial public offering and may continue to fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the financial marketplaces in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, seasonality, changes in general valuations for companies in our business segment, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Future sales of our shares also could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, strategic alliances or otherwise, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these stockholders might sell shares of Class A common stock could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. We have registered under the Securities Act 30,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock, which are reserved for issuance upon exercise of options, restricted stock and other incentive compensation granted under our incentive compensation plan. These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates. In addition, we have registered under the Securities Act 425,000 shares of our Class A common stock issuable under our stock purchase plan. We also will be issuing new shares of our Class A common stock in connection with our matching program for our 401(k) plan. The maximum number of new shares we will be issuing in connection with our 401(k) plan is $3,000 worth per employee per year. Since June 9, 2002, approximately 5.9 million shares of our Class A common stock that have been distributed to partners of Cantor as part of a deferred stock distribution by Cantor have been eligible for resale in the public market subject to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act. The availability for sale of such number of shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, we have issued shares of our Class A common stock, warrants and convertible preferred stock and have granted registration rights in connection with certain of our strategic alliances. See ‘‘Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.’’ During the year ended December 31, 2005, we repurchased an aggregate of 3.5 million shares of our Class A common stock for a total of $28.9 million. The reacquired shares have been designated treasury shares and will be used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2005, our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $58.7 million of our outstanding Class A common stock. We will consider making additional stock repurchases in 2006, and we may cease making repurchases at anytime. Unless we add an independent director to our Board of Directors or one of our executives resigns from our Board of Directors by the date of our next annual meeting, we will be out of compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements. One of our independent directors, William J. Moran, resigned from our Board of Directors in November 2005 and a replacement has not been appointed. We are required to replace Mr. Moran 28 with an independent director or remove one of our executive officers on our Board of Directors by the earlier of our next annual meeting or one year from the effective date of the resignation to be in compliance with the continued listing requirements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH CANTOR, BGC AND THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES Because we continue to depend on Cantor’s and BGC’s businesses, events which adversely affect Cantor’s or BGC’s business, or that of respective affiliates or customers, including a sale, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up recapitalizations of Cantor or BGC, may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Since inception, we have recognized a significant portion of our revenues in connection with our relationship with Cantor and its affiliates, including BGC, which was formed in October 2004. Consequently, our business was adversely affected by the effect of the September 11 Events on Cantor’s business. See ‘‘Risk Factors — The events of September 11, 2001 have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business.’’ In addition, any other future events which adversely affect Cantor’s or BGC’s business or operating results, including a sale, dissolution, liquidation, winding-up or recapitalization of all or a material portion of Cantor’s or BGC’s business, could have a material adverse effect on our most significant source of revenues. We also are a general creditor of Cantor and BGC to the extent that there are transaction revenues and software solutions fees owing to us from those entities. Events that adversely affect Cantor’s or BGC’s financial position and its ability to remit to us our share of transaction revenues and software solutions fees could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Conflicts of interest and competition with Cantor and BGC may arise. Various conflicts of interest between us and Cantor or BGC may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, the election of new directors, payment of dividends, incurrence of indebtedness, tax matters, financial commitments, marketing functions, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements, issuances of our capital stock, sales or distributions by Cantor of its shares of our common stock and the exercise by Cantor of control over our management and affairs. Three of our directors and a majority of our officers also serve as directors, officers and/or partners of Cantor or BGC and/or their respective affiliates. Simultaneous service as an eSpeed director or officer and service as a director or officer of Cantor or BGC, or status as a partner of Cantor could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when such directors, officers and/or partners are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and for Cantor or BGC. Mr. Lutnick, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the sole stockholder of the managing general partner of Cantor and indirectly of BGC. As a result, Mr. Lutnick controls Cantor and BGC. Cantor owns shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock representing approximately 88.8% of the Total Voting Power of our capital stock. Similarly, our Vice Chairman, Lee Amaitis, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BGC and a partner of Cantor. Although all related party transactions between eSpeed and Cantor, BGC and related entities are approved by our Audit Committee, Mr. Lutnick’s simultaneous service as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and his control of Cantor and BGC as well as Mr. Amaitis’ simultaneous service with us and BGC, as well as the Cantor partnerships interests held by both men, could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when Mr. Lutnick or Mr. Amaitis is faced with decisions that could have varying implications for us and for Cantor and BGC. Our relationship with Cantor and BGC results in agreements that are between related parties. As a result, the prices charged to us or by us for services provided under agreements with Cantor or BGC may be higher or lower than prices that may be charged by third parties and the terms of these agreements may be more or less favorable to us than those that we could have negotiated with third parties. However, transactions between us and Cantor, BGC and/or their other affiliates are subject to the approval of a majority of our Audit Committee, which is comprised of independent directors. In addition, Cantor can compete with us under certain circumstances. 29 Because our Joint Services Agreement with Cantor and its affiliates has a perpetual term and contains non-competition provisions and restrictions on our ability to pursue strategic transactions, this agreement may become burdensome to our business. Although Cantor and BGC have agreed, subject to certain conditions, not to compete with us in providing electronic brokerage services, Cantor and BGC are currently engaged in securities transaction and other financial instruments execution and processing operations and other activities that are related to the electronic trading services we provide. Our Joint Services Agreement obligates us to perform technology support and other services for Cantor and its affiliates, including BGC, at cost, whether or not related to our electronic brokerage services, sets forth the ongoing revenue sharing arrangements between Cantor, including BGC, and its affiliates and us and subjects us and Cantor and its affiliates to non-competition obligations. The Joint Services Agreement precludes us from entering into lines of business in which Cantor, BGC and their affiliates, now or in the future may engage, or providing, or assisting any third party in providing, voice-assisted brokerage services, clearance, settlement and fulfillment services and related services, except under limited circumstances. Although we believe neither Cantor nor BGC has plans to form, acquire or commence any other operations similar to ours, the Joint Services Agreement permits Cantor and its affiliates, including BGC, to perform, in limited circumstances, electronic brokerage operations. In addition, the Joint Services Agreement imposes limitations on our ability to pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, partnerships, business combinations, acquisitions and similar transactions. Because the Joint Services Agreement has a perpetual term, even in the event of a breach by one of the parties, and does not provide for modification under its terms, this agreement may become burdensome for us, may distract us from focusing on our internal operations, may deter or discourage a takeover of our company and may limit our ability to expand our operations. Because agreements between us and Cantor and its affiliates, including BGC, are between related parties, we may receive lower service fees from, and pay higher service fees to, Cantor and BGC than we would with respect to third-party service providers. In connection with the transactions which occurred when eSpeed was initially spun off from Cantor, we entered into Assignment and Assumption Agreements, an Administrative Services Agreement, a Joint Services Agreement and several other agreements with Cantor relating to the provision of services to each other and third parties, which agreements have been amended and revised from time to time, including agreements with respect to BGC. Because Cantor controls us, the prices charged to us or by us for services provided under the agreements may be higher or lower than prices that may be charged by third parties and the terms of these agreements may be generally less favorable to us than those that we could have negotiated with third parties. Because we depend on services and access to operating assets provided by third parties to Cantor and BGC, we may not have recourse against those third parties. Many of the assets and services provided by Cantor and BGC under the terms of the Administrative Services Agreement are leased or provided by third-party vendors. As a result, in the event of a dispute between Cantor or BGC and a third-party vendor, we could lose access to, or the right to use, as applicable, office space, personnel, corporate services and operating assets. In such a case, we would have no recourse with respect to the third-party vendor. Our inability to use these services and operating assets for any reason, including any termination of the Administrative Services Agreement between us and Cantor or the agreements between Cantor and third-party vendors, could result in serious interruptions of our operations. Our reputation may be affected by actions taken by Cantor or BGC and their affiliates. Cantor and BGC and their affiliates are currently our most significant clients. Cantor holds direct and indirect ownership and management interests in numerous other entities, including BGC, that engage in a broad range of financial services and securities-related activities. Actions taken by, and events involving, Cantor, BGC or their affiliates which are perceived negatively by the securities markets, or 30 the public generally, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, cash flows or operations or could affect the price of our Class A common stock. In addition, events that negatively affect the financial condition of Cantor or BGC may negatively affect us. These events could cause Cantor or BGC or their affiliates to lose clients that may trade in our marketplaces, could impair Cantor’s or BGC’s ability to perform its obligations under the Joint Services Agreement, the Administrative Services Agreement and other agreements Cantor or BGC enters into with us and could cause Cantor or BGC or their affiliates to liquidate investments, including by selling or otherwise transferring shares of our common stock. If we become subject to litigation and other legal proceedings, we may be harmed. From time to time, we and Cantor or BGC may become involved in litigation and other legal proceedings relating to claims arising from our and their operations in the normal course of business. We cannot assure you that these or other litigation or legal proceedings will not materially affect our ability to conduct our business in the manner that we expect or otherwise adversely affect us. See ‘‘Item 3. Legal Proceedings.’’ RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Because the voting control of our common stock is concentrated among the holders of our Class B common stock, the market price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by disparate voting rights. As of December 31, 2005, Cantor beneficially owned approximately 88.8% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. As long as Cantor beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability, without the consent of the public stockholders, to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and to control our management and affairs. In addition, it will be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change in control of our company. In certain circumstances, the shares of our Class B common stock issued to Cantor may be transferred without conversion to our Class A common stock. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have substantially identical rights, except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders in general. This differential in the voting rights and our ability to issue additional Class B common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Delaware law and our charter may make a takeover of our company more difficult and dilute your percentage of ownership of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law, such as its business combination statute, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock, which our Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval and with rights senior to those of our common stock, as well as additional shares of our Class B common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. Any such issuances would make a takeover of our company more difficult and may dilute your percentage ownership of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Second Amended and Restated By-Laws include provisions, which restrict the ability of our stockholders to take action by written consent and provide for advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control or management of our company, even if such transactions would have significant benefits to our stockholders. As a result, these provisions could limit the price some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. Delaware law may protect decisions of our Board of Directors that have a different effect on holders of our Class A and Class B common stock. Stockholders may not be able to challenge decisions that have an adverse effect upon holders of our Class A common stock if our Board of Directors acts in a disinterested, informed manner with respect 31 to these decisions, in good faith and in the belief that it is acting in the best interests of our stockholders. Delaware law generally provides that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders, regardless of class or series, and does not have separate or additional duties to either group of stockholders, subject to applicable provisions set forth in a company’s charter. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 