ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Because we depend on a small number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue, the loss of a single client or any significant reduction in the volume of services we provide to any of our significant clients could result in a substantial decrease in our revenue and have a material adverse impact on our financial position. During the year ended December 31, 2010, three clients accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue, with Sun Microsystems representing approximately 17% of our net revenue, Hewlett-Packard representing approximately 14% of our net revenue, and Symantec representing approximately 12% of our net revenue. In 2009, three clients accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue, with Sun Microsystems representing approximately 22% of our net revenue, Hewlett-Packard representing approximately 16% of our net revenue and Symantec accounting for approximately 10% of our net revenue. In 2008, Hewlett-Packard accounted for approximately 20% of our net revenue and was the only client that accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. On February 5, 2010, we received written notice from Sun Microsystems that they had elected to terminate the Global Inside Sales Program Statement of Work agreement dated March 31, 2009, effective as of February 28, 2010. The notice followed the acquisition of Sun Microsystems by Oracle Corporation and affected the contract sales services that we were performing for Sun. The Global Inside Sales Program services accounted for approximately 13% of our fiscal 2009 annual net revenue. The Global Inside Sales agreement had a minimum term with notice periods to August 31, 2010. We entered into a settlement agreement on March 8, 2010, and received a cash payment of $4,550,000 from Oracle Corporation for the buyout of the Global Inside Sales agreement. The settlement payment was recognized as revenue in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, Oracle agreed to reimburse us $347,000 for employee severance costs related to terminating employees who worked on the Global Inside Sales program. This reimbursement was recognized in payroll and payroll tax expense to offset the employee severance costs. As of December 31, 2010, none of our previous programs with Sun Microsystems were continuing. A client that provides business process call center services that has been outsourcing its Asia call center activities to us was acquired in December 2010. We are currently in discussions with this client’s new parent company to provide managed call center services for their new facility. This may take affect in the next three to nine months. This is likely to result in some decrease in revenue compared to the outsourced call center services we now provide this client. The outcome of this negotiation is presently unknown. The potential impact on revenue is not determinable at this time. It’s possible that our current agreement with this client could terminate without transitioning to a new managed services arrangement if we are not able to come to mutually agreeable terms. Services to this client accounted for approximately 6% of our 2010 annual net revenue and 8% of our fourth quarter 2010 net revenue. 14 Table of Contents We expect that a small number of clients will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of our significant clients or client initiated changes to our client programs may cause a significant decrease in our revenue. In addition, our software and technology clients operate in industries that experience consolidation from time to time, which could reduce the number of our existing and potential clients. Any loss of a single significant client or changes to client programs may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Our clients may, from time to time, restructure their businesses or get acquired by another company, which may adversely impact the revenues we generate from those clients. Sun Microsystems, a significant client, was acquired by Oracle Corporation in 2010, and thereafter elected to terminate certain of our services as described above. Any restructuring, termination or non-renewal of our services by any of our significant clients could reduce the volume of services we provide and further reduce our expected future revenues, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Current macro-economic conditions could continue to negatively impact our results of operations. The current unfavorable macro-economic conditions have contributed to our clients reducing their overall marketing spending and our clients’ customers reducing their purchase of our clients’ products and services. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad does not improve from its current condition or continues to deteriorate, our clients or prospective clients could reduce or delay their purchases of our services, and our clients’ customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our clients’ products and services, which would adversely impact our revenues and our profitability. Our business plan requires us to effectively manage our costs. If we do not achieve our cost management objectives, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our business plan and expectations for the future require that we effectively manage our cost structure, including our operating expenses and capital expenditures. To the extent that we do not effectively manage our costs, our financial results may be adversely affected, particularly if the current unfavorable macro-economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad continue to contribute to our clients reducing their overall marketing spending and our clients’ customers reducing their purchases of our clients’ products and services, thereby negatively affecting our revenue. We have strong competitors and may not be able to compete effectively against them. Competition in our industry is intense, and such competition may increase in the future. Our competitors include providers of service contract sales and lead generation services, enterprise application software providers, providers of database marketing services, e-commerce service providers, online marketing services, and companies that offer training management systems. We also face competition from internal marketing departments of current and potential clients. Additionally, for portions of our service offering, we may face competition from outsource providers with substantial offshore facilities which may enable them to compete aggressively with similar service offerings at a substantially lower price. Many of our existing or potential competitors have greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, which could further impact our ability to address competitive pressures. Should competitive factors require us to increase spending for, and investment in, client acquisition and retention or for the development of new services, our expenses could increase disproportionately to our revenues. Competitive pressures may also necessitate price reductions and other actions that would likely affect our business adversely. Additionally, there can be no assurances that we will have the resources to maintain a higher level of spending to address changes in the competitive landscape. Failure to maintain or to produce revenue proportionate to any increase in expenses would have a negative impact on our financial position, cash flows and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our agreements with our clients allow for termination with short notice periods. Our service sales agreements and our lead generation agreements generally allow our clients to terminate such agreements without cause with 90 to 180 days notice and 15 to 30 days notice, respectively. Our clients are under no obligation to renew their engagements with us when their contracts come up for renewal. In addition, our agreements with our clients are generally not exclusive. Our agreements with Hewlett-Packard, a significant client, expire at various dates from October 2011 through May 2012, and can generally be terminated prior to expiration with ninety days notice. Our agreements with Symantec, a significant client, expire at various dates from May 2011 through June 2012, and can generally be terminated prior to expiration with ninety days notice. We had various agreements with Sun Microsystems, our largest client during 2010, with various termination provisions. On February 5, 2010, we received written notice from Sun Microsystems that they had elected to terminate the Global Inside Sales Program Statement of Work agreement dated March 31, 2009, effective as of February 28, 2010. The notice followed the acquisition of Sun Microsystems by Oracle Corporation and affected the contract sales services that we were performing for Sun. The Global Inside Sales Program services accounted for approximately 13% of our fiscal 2009 annual net revenue. The Global Inside Sales agreement had a minimum term with notice periods to August 31, 2010. We entered into a settlement agreement on March 8, 2010, and received a cash payment of $4,550,000 from Oracle Corporation for the buyout of the Global Inside Sales agreement. The settlement payment was recognized as revenue in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, Oracle agreed to reimburse us $347,000 for employee severance costs related to terminating employees who worked on the Global Inside Sales program. This reimbursement was recognized in payroll and payroll tax expense to offset the employee severance costs. A client that provides business process call center services that has been outsourcing its Asia call center activities to us was acquired in December 2010. We are currently in discussions with this client’s new parent company to provide managed call center services for their new facility. This may take affect in the next three to nine months. This is likely to result in some decrease in revenue compared to the outsourced call center services we now provide this client. The outcome of this negotiation is presently unknown. The potential impact on revenue is not determinable at this time. It’s possible that our current agreement with this client could terminate without transitioning to a new managed services arrangement if we are not able to come to mutually agreeable terms. Services to this client accounted for approximately 6% of our 2010 annual net revenue and 8% of our fourth quarter 2010 net revenue. Our revenue will decline if demand for our clients’ products and services decreases. A significant portion of our business consists of marketing and selling our clients’ products and services to their customers. In addition, a significant percentage of our revenue is based on a “pay for performance” model in which our revenue is based on the amount of our clients’ products and services that we sell. Accordingly, if a particular client’s products and services fail to appeal to its customers for reasons beyond our control, such as preference for a competing product or service, our revenue may decline. In addition, revenue from our lead generation service offering could decline if our clients reduce their marketing efforts. Any efforts we may make in the future to expand our service offerings may not succeed. To date, we have focused our business on providing our service offerings to enterprises in selected vertical markets that retain our services and/or license our software in an effort to market and sell their offerings to their business customers. We may seek to expand our service offerings in the future to other markets, including other industry verticals or seek to provide other related services to our clients. Any such effort to expand could cause us to incur significant investment costs and expenses and could ultimately not result in significant revenue growth for us. In addition, any efforts to expand could divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial and other resources to unproven businesses. We have signed clients to our channel contract sales solution to increase revenue from our clients’ resellers. While this solution has been adopted by a number of resellers of our clients, there is no assurance that all major resellers will use this solution, which may limit us from achieving the full revenue potential of this solution. 16 Table of Contents Any acquisitions or strategic transactions in which we participate could result in dilution, unfavorable accounting charges and difficulties in successfully managing our business. As part of our business strategy, we review from time to time acquisitions or other strategic transactions that would complement our existing business or enhance our technology capabilities. Future acquisitions or strategic transactions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the use of cash, large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization of intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could cause our financial performance to suffer. Furthermore, acquisitions or other strategic transactions entail numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties assimilating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the combined companies; • diversion of management’s attention; • risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We perform a valuation analysis on all of our acquisitions as a basis for initially recognizing and measuring intangible assets including goodwill in our financial statements. We are required to test for impairment the carrying value of our goodwill at the reporting unit level at least annually, and we are required to test for impairment the carrying value of these assets as well as our other intangible assets that are subject to amortization and our tangible long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Such events or changes in circumstances may include a persistent decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. During the year ending December 31, 2008, we took a non-cash charge of approximately $13.7 million for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets from our acquisitions. Subsequent to this impairment write-down, we had $3.5 million in goodwill and $1.6 million of unamortized intangibles on our balance sheet at December 31, 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2009 and again in the fourth quarter of 2010, we performed our annual impairment test as of October 31 and noted that no impairment existed at that time. At December 31, 2010, we have $5.3 million in goodwill and $432,000 of unamortized intangibles on our balance sheet. In the future, our test of impairment could result in further adjustments, or in write-downs or write-offs of assets, which would negatively affect our financial position and operating results. In 2007, we invested in Market2Lead, Inc. (“Market2Lead”), a software-as-a-service provider of business-to-business automated marketing solutions. Rainmaker provided Market2Lead with growth financing of $2.5 million in secured convertible and term debt. In 2008, one-half of the debt was converted into preferred shares of Market2Lead. In 2009, we impaired approximately half the equity value. In 2010, we impaired the remaining equity value. In May 2010, we received payment from Market2Lead for the $1,250,000 in remaining term debt. We no longer carry any values on our balance sheet related to Market2Lead. We cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully integrate any operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and operating results. Our business strategy may include further expansion into foreign markets, which would require increased expenditures, and if our international operations are not successfully implemented, they may not result in increased revenue or growth of our business. On January 25, 2007, we acquired the business of CAS Systems, which had operations near Montreal, Canada. On July 19, 2007, we acquired Qinteraction, which operated a call center in Manila, Philippines. In the first quarter of 2009, we established our Rainmaker Europe subsidiary in the United Kingdom. On January 29, 2010, we acquired Optima, headquartered near London, England. Our growth strategy may include further 17 Table of Contents expansion into international markets. Our international expansion may require significant additional financial resources and management attention, and could have a negative effect on our financial position, cash flows and operating results. In addition, we may be exposed to associated risks and challenges, including: • regional and economic political conditions; • foreign currency fluctuations; • different or lesser protection of intellectual property rights; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • different pricing environments; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; and • foreign government regulations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in creating international demand for our services and software or that we will be able to effectively sell our clients’ products and services in international markets. Our growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to add new clients. Key elements of our growth strategy include adding new clients, extending the term of existing client agreements and growing the business of our existing clients. Competition for clients is intense, and we may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to add and launch new clients within the time frames projected by us, we may not be able to achieve our targeted results in the expected periods. Our success depends on our ability to successfully manage growth. Any future growth will place additional demands on our managerial, administrative, operational and financial resources. We will need to improve our operational, financial and managerial controls and information systems and procedures and will need to train and manage our overall work force. If we are unable to manage additional growth effectively, our business will be harmed. The length and unpredictability of the sales and integration cycles could cause delays in our revenue growth. Selection of our services and software can entail an extended decision making process on the part of prospective clients. We often must educate our potential clients regarding the use and benefit of our services and software, which may delay the evaluation and acceptance process. For the service contract sales portion of our solution, the selling cycle can extend to approximately 9 to 12 months or longer between initial client contact and signing of an agreement. Once our services and software are selected, integration with our clients’ systems can be a lengthy process, which further impacts the timing of revenue. Because we are unable to control many of the factors that will influence our clients’ buying decisions or the integration process of our services and software, it can be difficult to forecast the growth and timing of our revenue. We have incurred recent losses and may incur losses in the future. We incurred a net loss in each of the four quarters of 2008 and in three of the four quarters of both 2009 and 2010. Our accumulated deficit through December 31, 2010 is $106.9 million. We may continue to incur losses in the future. Factors which may cause us to incur losses in the future include: • the growth of the market for our sales and marketing solutions; • the demand for and acceptance of our services; 18 Table of Contents • the demand for our clients’ products and services; • the length of the sales and integration cycle for our new clients; • our ability to expand relationships with existing clients; • our ability to develop and implement additional services, products and technologies; • the success of our direct sales force; • our ability to retain existing clients; • the granting of additional stock options and/or restricted stock awards resulting in additional stock-based compensation expense; • new product and service offerings from our competitors; • general economic conditions, especially given the very difficult and challenging macroeconomic environment and the difficulty in predicting demand during these uncertain times; • regulatory compliance costs; • our ability to integrate acquisitions and the costs and write-downs associated with them, including the amortization of intangibles; • our ability to expand our operations, including potential further international expansion; and • the loss of a significant client. We will need to raise additional capital to meet our planned growth objectives, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We may wish to secure additional capital for the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies that are complementary to ours, or to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. To date, we have raised capital through both equity and debt financings. On April 25, 2007, we completed a follow-on public offering of our common stock in which we issued an additional 3.5 million shares and raised $27 million in net proceeds. On January 28, 2011, we filed a form S-3 registration statement and on February 18, 2011, we filed a form S-3/A amended registration statement for the potential issuance of up to $15 million of securities in the form of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, units, and/or debt securities, subject to SEC rules limiting any issuance under such registration statement to one-third of our nonaffiliate market capitalization (“public float”) over any period of 12 calendar months for so long as our public float is less than $75 million. We may choose any combination of such securities depending on the market conditions at the time of issuance, if any. Any additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and interest expenses that will affect our financial results. Additional funding may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to delay or reduce the scope of our operations. At December 31, 2010, our unrestricted cash balance was $12.2 million, and our net working capital was $4.2 million. We expect we will need to raise additional funds over the next twelve months to meet our planned growth objectives. If we are unable to raise additional funds, our planned growth objectives may be limited, and we may need to reduce the size of our operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and if we do not meet market expectations, our stock price could decline. Our future operating results may not follow past trends in every quarter. In any future quarter, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Factors which may cause our future operating results to be below expectations include: • the growth of the market for our sales and marketing solutions; • the demand for and acceptance of our services; 19 Table of Contents • the demand for our clients’ products and services; • the length of the sales and integration cycle for our new clients; • our ability to expand relationships with existing clients; • our ability to develop and implement additional services, products and technologies; • the success of our direct sales force; • our ability to retain existing clients; • the granting of additional stock options and/or restricted stock awards resulting in additional stock-based compensation expense; • new product and service offerings from our competitors; • general economic conditions; • regulatory compliance costs; • our ability to integrate acquisitions and the costs and write-downs associated with them, including the amortization of intangibles; • our ability to expand our operations, including potential further international expansion; and • the loss of a significant client. We are subject to certain financial covenants under our loan agreement with Bridge Bank. If we are unable to satisfy these covenants or obtain a waiver, the lender could demand immediate repayment of their loans made to us. The Company is a party to a loan agreement with Bridge Bank, which is secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets. We are required to comply with certain financial covenants under the loan agreement with Bridge Bank, including not incurring a quarterly non-GAAP profit or loss negatively exceeding by more than 10% the amount of the non-GAAP profit or loss recited in the Company’s operating plan approved by Bridge Bank, and maintaining unrestricted cash with Bridge Bank equal to the greater of $2.0 million or the aggregate principal amount of the indebtedness from time to time outstanding with Bridge Bank plus $500,000. If we are not able to comply with such covenants, the Company’s outstanding loan balance could become due and payable immediately and our existing credit facilities with Bridge Bank could be cancelled. Unless we are able to obtain a waiver from Bridge Bank for any covenant violations, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010, we did not meet the performance to plan financial covenant as our quarterly non-GAAP loss exceeded by 10% the amount of quarterly non-GAAP loss in our operating plan approved by Bridge Bank for our first and second quarters’ results of operations. We received a waiver from Bridge Bank for the violation of this covenant for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010. For the three months ended September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, we met this performance to plan financial covenant. We may experience seasonality in our sales, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As we continue to grow our service offerings, we will experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenue as companies’ spending on marketing can be stronger in some quarters than others partially due to our clients’ budget and fiscal schedules. In addition, since our lead generation service offering has lower gross margins than our other service offerings, we may experience quarterly fluctuations in our financial performance as a result of a seasonal shift in the mix of our service offerings. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales and technical personnel, the quality of our services may decline, and our ability to execute our growth strategies may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the contributions of our executive officers and key sales and technical personnel and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified sales, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for personnel is intense as these personnel are limited in supply. We have at times experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties in the future, which could limit our future growth. The loss of certain key personnel, particularly Michael Silton, our chief executive officer, and Steve Valenzuela, our chief financial officer, could seriously harm our business. We rely heavily on our communications infrastructure, and the failure to invest in or the loss of these systems could disrupt the operation and growth of our business and result in the loss of clients or our clients’ customers. Our success is dependent in large part on our continued investment in sophisticated computer, Internet and telecommunications systems. We have invested significantly in technology and anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to do so in the future to remain competitive. These technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles, which require us to anticipate technology developments. We may be unsuccessful in anticipating, managing, adopting and integrating technology changes on a timely basis, or we may not have the capital resources available to invest in new technologies. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime, disruptions or increased costs. In the event that one of our operations facilities has a lapse of service or damage to such facility, our clients could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays, and we might incur additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Our disaster recovery computer hardware and systems located at our facilities in California, Texas, the Philippines and England have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring at one of our operations facilities. In the event of a disaster in which one of our operations facilities is irreparably damaged or destroyed, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our service. While we have not experienced extended system failures in the past, any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or cause clients to fail to renew their contracts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Temporary or permanent loss of these systems could limit our ability to conduct our business and result in lost revenue. We have made significant investments in technology systems that operate our business operations. Such assets are subject to reviews for impairment in the event they are not fully utilized. We have made significant investments in technology and system improvements related to servicing clients and capitalized those costs while the technology was being developed. We have invested $6.5 million in client technology and system improvements, which has a carrying value of $2.0 million as of December 31, 2010, and is generally amortized over two to five years. If unforeseen events or circumstances prohibit us from using these systems, we may be forced to impair one or more of these systems, which could result in a non-cash impairment charge to our financial results. We expect to invest additional amounts into technology and system improvements in the future which would bear similar risks. 21 Table of Contents Defects or errors in our software could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our services and result in significant costs to us. Our software is complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. We have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have from time to time found defects in our software and we may discover additional defects in the future. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before releasing software. Consequently, we or our clients may discover defects or errors after our software has been implemented. We have in the past implemented, and may in the future need to implement, corrections to our software to correct defects or errors. The occurrence of any defects or errors could result in: • our inability to execute our services on behalf of our clients; • delays in payment to us by customers; • damage to our reputation; • diversion of our resources; • legal claims, including product liability claims, against us; • increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions; and • increased insurance costs. Our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all of the costs resulting from any legal claims. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our current liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, even if we succeed in any litigation, we are likely to incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. If we are unable to safeguard our networks and clients’ data, our clients may not use our services and our business may be harmed. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses and other security problems. An individual who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Security measures that we adopt from time to time may be inadequate. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we may lose our intellectual property rights and be liable for significant damages. We cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights and information will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If third parties infringe or misappropriate our trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade names or other proprietary information, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, third parties may assert infringement claims against us that we violated their intellectual property rights. These claims, even if not true, could result in significant legal and other costs and may be a distraction to management. In addition, protection of intellectual property in many foreign countries is weaker and less reliable than in the U.S., so if our business further expands into foreign countries, risks associated with protecting our intellectual property will increase. 22 Table of Contents Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions as well as our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. While we believe that we have complied with all applicable income tax laws, there can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. We have been audited from time to time and should additional taxes be assessed, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We conduct sales, marketing, and other services through our subsidiaries located in various tax jurisdictions around the world. While our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies which we believe are reasonable, the price charged for these services could be challenged by the various tax authorities resulting in additional tax liability, interest and/or penalties. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional sales tax could adversely harm our business. We file sales tax returns in certain states within the U.S. as required by law and collect and remit sales tax on certain client contracts for a portion of the sales and marketing services that we provide. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of the states do not apply sales or similar taxes to the vast majority of the services that we provide. However, one or more states could seek to impose additional sales or use tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales, use or similar taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could adversely affect our results of operations and business. We are from time to time involved in litigation incidental to our business, which in the event of an adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to claims, asserted or unasserted, or named as a party to lawsuits or investigations. Litigation, in general, can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with any certainty and in the case of more complex legal proceedings, such as intellectual property and securities litigation, the results are difficult to predict at all. We are not aware of any asserted or unasserted legal proceedings or claims that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of our operations. We may, however, incur substantial expenses and devote substantial time to defend these claims as they arise, whether or not such claims are meritorious. In addition, in the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liability and may be required to implement changes in our business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 3— “Legal Proceedings” for a description of certain pending legal proceedings against the Company in the Philippines. Risks Related to Our Industry and Other Risks We operate in a rapidly changing industry and have recently entered new lines of business, all of which make our operating results difficult to predict. The industry in which we operate is rapidly changing and evolving. The evolution of this industry makes our risks, capital needs and operating results difficult to predict. Any failure to adapt our services in response to changing market and technological requirements could adversely affect our operating results. In connection with our 2009 acquisition of the eCommerce technology of Grow Commerce, we have also entered into new lines of business to integrate the Grow Commerce assets to advance our eCommerce strategy. We have limited experience in these new lines of business, and we will be required to devote substantial financial, technical, 23 Table of Contents managerial and other resources to them. We cannot assure you that these new lines of business will be successful. We are subject to government regulation of distribution and direct marketing, which could restrict the operation and growth of our business. The Federal Trade Commission’s, or FTC’s, telesales rules prohibit misrepresentations of the cost, terms, restrictions, performance or duration of products or services offered by telephone solicitation and specifically addresses other perceived telemarketing abuses in the offering of prizes. Additionally, the FTC’s rules limit the hours during which telemarketers may call consumers. The Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 contains other restrictions on facsimile transmissions and on telemarketers, including a prohibition on the use of automated telephone dialing equipment to call certain telephone numbers. The Federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 contains restrictions on the content and distribution of commercial e-mail. A number of states also regulate telemarketing and some states have enacted restrictions similar to these federal laws. In addition, a number of states regulate e-mail and facsimile transmissions. State regulations of telesales, e-mail and facsimile transmissions may be more restrictive than federal laws. Additionally, our eCommerce services are subject to U.S. and foreign export laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable statutes and regulations could result in penalties and/or restrictions on our ability to provide services. There can be no assurance that additional federal or state legislation, or changes in regulatory implementation or judicial interpretation of existing or future laws, would not limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. The demand for sales and marketing services is highly uncertain. Demand and acceptance of our sales and marketing services is dependent upon companies’ willingness to allow third parties to provide these services. It is possible that these solutions may never achieve broad market acceptance. If the market for our services does not grow or grows more slowly than we anticipate at any time, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Increased government regulation of the Internet could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulations in the U.S. or elsewhere covering issues such as online privacy, copyright and trademark, sales taxes and fair business practices or which require qualification to do business as a foreign corporation in certain jurisdictions. Increased government regulation, or the application of existing laws to online activities, could inhibit Internet growth. A number of government authorities are increasingly focusing on online personal data privacy and security issues and the use of personal information. Our business could be adversely affected if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government authorities choose to investigate our privacy practices. In addition, the European Union has adopted directives addressing data privacy that may limit the collection and use of some information regarding Internet users. Such directives may limit our ability to target our clients’ customers or collect and use information. A decline in the growth of the Internet could decrease demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business and otherwise harm our business. Failure by us to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the rules of the SEC could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are required to comply with the management certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies that results in a 24 Table of Contents reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements, and our stock price may be adversely affected as a result. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our consolidated financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and our stock price may be adversely affected. Terrorist acts and acts of war may harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses, and financial position. Terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage to our employees, facilities, clients, our clients’ customers, and vendors which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses, financial position and results of operations. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot be presently predicted. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Risks Associated with Our Stock Our charter documents and Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts, even if a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides our board of directors the authority, without stockholder action, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board determines when we will issue preferred stock and the rights, preferences and privileges of any preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation also provides for a classified board, with each board member serving a staggered three-year term. In addition, our bylaws establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals and for nominating candidates for election as directors. Delaware law also contains provisions that can affect the ability of a third party to take over a company. For example, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive. Our common stock price is volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the price for our common stock fluctuated between $0.87 per share and $1.84 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the price for our common stock fluctuated between $0.47 per share and $1.83 per share. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely, including due to: • quarter to quarter variations in results of operations; • loss of a major client; • changes in the economic environment which could reduce our potential; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • changes in, or our failure to meet, the expectations of securities analysts; • new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; 25 Table of Contents • announcements of strategic relationships or acquisitions by us or our competitors; • other events or factors that may be beyond our control; • dilution resulting from the raising of additional capital; or • other factors discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A—“Risk Factors”. In addition, the securities markets in general have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in the past. The trading prices of securities of companies in our industry have fluctuated broadly, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These general market and industry factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our stock price is volatile, and we could face securities class action litigation. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subjects of securities class action litigation. If we were sued in a securities class action, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could cause our stock price to fall. We may have difficulty obtaining director and officer liability insurance in acceptable amounts for acceptable rates. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. If we fail to meet the Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements, our common stock will be delisted. Trading of our common stock moved from the Nasdaq Capital Market to the Nasdaq Global Market on January 8, 2007. The Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements are more onerous than the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we experience losses from our operations, are unable to raise additional funds or our stock price does not meet minimum standards, we may not be able to maintain the standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, which include, among other things, that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share and minimum shareholders’ equity of $10 million (subject to applicable grace and cure periods). Our common stock has traded below the minimum $1.00 closing bid price during both 2009 and 2010. If, as a result of the application of such listing requirements, our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, our stock would become harder to buy and sell. Consequently, if we were removed from the Nasdaq Global Market, the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock might decline. As a result, the ability to resell shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our directors, executive officers and their affiliates own a significant percentage of our common stock and can significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2010, our directors, executive officers and entities affiliated with them together beneficially control approximately 19% of our outstanding shares. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to disproportionately influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of all directors, and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Accordingly, such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, which, in turn, could depress the market price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Shares eligible for sale in the future could negatively affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur. This might also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the issuance of securities. As of December 31, 2010, we had 23,275,199 outstanding shares of common stock which included 2,457,063 unvested shares issued pursuant to restricted stock awards granted to certain employees and directors. These restricted shares will become available for public sales subject to the respective employees’ and directors’ continued employment or service with the company over vesting periods of not more than four years. In addition, there were an aggregate of 1,473,430 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants, including 673,431 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options outstanding under our option plan and 799,999 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the outstanding warrants issued to the investors in our private placement transaction completed on February 7, 2006. These warrants expired on February 7, 2011. We may issue and/or register additional shares, options, or warrants in the future in connection with acquisitions, employee compensation or otherwise. On July 19, 2007, we completed a stock purchase agreement with the shareholders of Qinteraction. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the Company issued 559,284 shares of its common stock, representing approximately $4.8 million in Rainmaker common stock based upon the five-day average closing stock price before and after July 23, 2007, the date on which the transaction was announced. Such shares were initially subject to a contractual prohibition of sale with shares available for sale from closing as follows: 241,890 shares were subject to 6 months lockup which has now expired and these shares are now freely tradable, 241,891 shares were subject to 12 months lockup which has now expired and these shares are now freely tradable. In addition, 75,503 of the shares of the common stock consideration have been placed in escrow to secure certain customary indemnity obligations under the Purchase Agreement. Two-thirds of the escrow was scheduled to be released after 12 months from closing and the remaining one-third was scheduled for release after 15 months from closing. The release of such shares from escrow is subject to post-closing conditions, potential adjustments and offsets. No shares have been released from escrow as of yet as the Company has filed a claim against the escrow. The agreement also provided for a potential additional payment at the end of twelve months following the closing, based on the achievement of certain financial milestones which the Company had determined have not been achieved, and which would have resulted in the issuance of up to $3.5 million in additional Rainmaker common stock and a payment of $4.5 million in cash. Based upon the financial milestone measurement, the Company determined that no contingent payment had been earned. Accordingly, no additional purchase price was recorded. On January 29, 2010, we completed a stock purchase agreement with the shareholders of Optima. Under the terms of the acquisition, we issued 480,000 shares of Rainmaker common stock. Such shares are initially subject to a contractual prohibition of sale with shares available for sale from closing as follows: 25% of such shares became freely tradeable after 6 months, 50% of such shares became freely tradeable after 12 months and all of such shares may be freely traded after 18 months, or July 29, 2011. The agreement also provides for two potential additional payments of $375,000 each in a combination of stock and/or cash contingent on certain performance metrics in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, and subject to post closing conditions. Based upon the performance metric measurement, the Company determined that no contingent payment had been earned in 2010. Accordingly, the Company recorded a gain on fair value re-measurement. On January 28, 2011, we filed a form S-3 registration statement and on February 18, 2011, we filed a form S-3/A amended registration statement for the potential issuance of up to $15 million of securities in the form of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, units, and/or debt securities, subject to SEC rules limiting any issuance under such registration statement to one-third of our nonaffiliate market capitalization (“public float”) over any period of 12 calendar months for so long as our public float is less than $75 million. We may choose any combination of such securities depending on the market conditions at the time of issuance, if any. 27 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 