Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Performance. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. The following section discusses many of these risks and uncertainties, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is vulnerable to fluctuations in general economic conditions. Our business tends to be adversely affected by slow or depressed business conditions in the market as a whole. Many of our clients treat all or a portion of their market research expenditures as discretionary. As global macroeconomic conditions decline and our clients seek to control variable costs, new bookings tend to slow, existing bookings become increasingly vulnerable to subsequent cancellations and delays, and our sales backlog may convert to revenue more slowly than it has historically. A portion of our business involves longer-term tracking studies, which are often renewable on an annual basis. Non-renewal of a large tracking study can have an immediate disproportionate impact on our revenues, and we may have a lag time in adjusting our cost structure to reflect the effects of the non-renewal. Any of the above factors may result in a material adverse impact to our growth, revenues, and earnings. Failure to maintain our brand reputation and recognition could impair our ability to remain competitive. We believe that maintaining our good brand reputation and recognition is critical to attracting and expanding our current client base as well as attracting and retaining qualified employees. If our reputation and name are damaged through our participation in surveys involving controversial topics or if the results of our surveys are inaccurate or are misused or used out of context by one of our clients, we may become less competitive or lose market share. If we are unable to maintain adequate capacity and demographic composition of our existing online panel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to maintain sufficient capacity of our online panel and its specialty sub-panels. Our ability to do this may be harmed if we lose panel capacity or are unable to attract and maintain an adequate number of replacement panelists and specialty sub-panel members. There are currently no industry or other benchmarks for determining the optimal size and composition of an online respondent panel. Among other factors, panelist response rates vary with differing survey content, and the frequency with which panelists are willing to respond to survey invitations is variable. We constantly reassess our panel size and demographics as survey requests are made and, based upon availability of existing panelists to fulfill project requests, determine our need to recruit additional panelists. We are not always able to accommodate client requests to survey low-incidence, limited populations with specific demographic characteristics. If our need to recruit 12 Table of Contents panelists or specialty sub-panel members increases significantly, our operating costs will rise. Further, our business will be adversely affected if we do not achieve sufficient response rates with our existing panelists or our panel narrows and we are unable to spend the funds necessary to recruit additional panelists. We face competitive pressures within our industry and must continuously replace completed work with new projects. The market research industry includes many competitors, some of which are much larger than we are, have a greater global presence, and/or have specialized products and services we do not offer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of our services, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products to meet changing market needs or prices. No one client accounts for more than 10% of our revenues and most of our revenues are derived on a project by project basis. We must continuously replace completed work with new projects from both existing and new clients, and these competitive pressures may make it more difficult for us to do so and to sustain and grow our revenues. Our outstanding debt obligations could impact our financial condition or future operating results. At June 30, 2009, we had $22.5 million outstanding under our Credit Agreement, which provides for amortizing term loans with quarterly payments and, subject to certain conditions, the availability of a maximum amount of $5.0 million under a revolving credit facility. The affirmative, negative and financial covenants of our Credit Agreement could limit our future financial flexibility and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Additionally, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in acceleration of all amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement, which would materially impact our financial condition unless accommodations could be negotiated with our lenders. No assurance can be given that we would be successful in doing so in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those presently contained in our Credit Agreement. The associated debt service costs of the borrowing arrangement under our Credit Agreement will continue to be reflected in operating results. The outstanding debt may limit the amount of cash or additional credit available to us, which could restrain our ability to expand or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressures, or pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. A breach of our Internet security measures, security concerns, or liability arising from the use of the personal information of our Internet panel, could adversely affect our business. A failure in our Internet security measures could result in the misappropriation of private data. As a result, we may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Internet security concerns could cause some online panelists to reduce their participation levels, provide inaccurate responses or end their membership in our Internet panel. This could harm our credibility with our current clients. If our clients become dissatisfied, they may stop using our products and services. In addition, dissatisfied and lost clients could damage our reputation. A loss of online 13 Table of Contents panelists or a loss of clients would hurt our efforts to generate increased revenues and impair our ability to attract potential clients. We could be subject to liability claims by our online panelists for any misuse of the demographic personal information. These claims could result in costly litigation. We could also incur additional costs and expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if our privacy practices are investigated by a governmental body. We must continue to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, sales and client support personnel. Project managers with industry expertise are important to our ability to retain and expand our business. Intense competition for these personnel exists, and we may be unable to attract, integrate or retain the proper numbers of sufficiently qualified personnel that our business plan assumes. In the past, we have from time to time experienced difficulty hiring and retaining qualified employees. There are few, if any, educational institutions that provide specialized training related to market research. Therefore, employees must be recruited in competition with other industries. In the past, competition for highly skilled employees has resulted in additional costs for recruitment, training, compensation and relocation or the provision of remote access to our facilities. We may continue in the future to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. To the extent that we are unable to hire and retain skilled employees in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. If our new senior management team is unsuccessful in rebuilding our business, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues, operations, results, or stock value. During fiscal 2009, we rebuilt virtually our entire senior management team by recruiting talent from outside the Company and also by promoting from within. Our success will be dependent upon the ability of our new senior management team to gain proficiency in leading our Company, effectively implement our corporate strategy and initiatives, and develop key professional relationships. If our new senior management team is unable to achieve success in these areas, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues, operations, results or stock value. We may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the remaining borrowing capacity we have under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient for our expected short-term and foreseeable long-term operating needs. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to unanticipated business conditions, to repay indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. If our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek additional borrowings. Prevailing credit market conditions may negatively affect debt availability and cost, and, as a result, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would further restrict our operations. Our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in 14 Table of Contents regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between U.S. and foreign tax rates and laws, currency exchange fluctuations, problems in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods, issues related to repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, Internet access restrictions, protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions, political instability, and anti-U.S. sentiment or terrorist activity against U.S. interests abroad. We have little or no control over these risks. For example, we have encountered more restrictive privacy laws in connection with our business operations in Europe, which have inhibited the growth of our European Internet panel. As we increase our global operations in the future, we may experience some or all of these risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on off-shore providers in countries, such as India and Costa Rica, to provide certain of our programming services, as well as telephone and online data collection. Political or economic instability in countries where such support services are provided, or a significant increase in the costs of such services, could adversely affect our business. From time to time, laws and regulations are proposed in the jurisdictions where we operate that would restrict or limit the benefits of off-shore operations, and enactment of any such legal restrictions could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. The laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property in such countries against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to liability for publishing or distributing content over the Internet. We may be subject to claims relating to content that is published on or downloaded from our websites. We may also be subject to liability for content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites. For example, as part of our surveys panelists sometimes access, through our websites or linkages to our client’s or other third party websites, content provided by our clients, such as advertising copy, that may be incomplete or contain inaccuracies. We also recruit panelists to participate in research sponsored and hosted by our clients on the client’s website, and we cannot completely control breaches of privacy policies, warranties, or other claims that may be made by those third parties. We may be accused of sending bulk unsolicited email and have our email blocked by one or more Internet service providers and, therefore, our online data collection efforts may suffer. Although we carry general and professional liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential liability claims for publishing or distributing content over the Internet, or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any claims of this type, with or without merit, would result in the diversion of our financial resources and management personnel. Any failure in the performance of our technology infrastructure or the Internet backbone could harm our business. Any system delays or failures, including network, software or hardware failures, that cause an interruption in our ability to communicate with our Internet panel, collect research data, or protect 15 Table of Contents visual materials included in our surveys, could result in reduced revenue, impair our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, earthquake, flooding, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. The redundancy of our systems may not be adequate, as we depend upon third-party suppliers to protect our systems and operations from the events described above. We have experienced technical difficulties and downtime of individual components of our systems in the past, and we believe that technical difficulties and downtime may occur from time to time in the future. The impact of technical difficulties and downtime may be severe. We have developed, however have not fully implemented, a formal disaster recovery plan, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures in our systems. Major components of the Internet backbone itself could fail due to terrorist attack, war or natural disaster. Further, our servers could be the subject of cyber attacks or outages could be experienced with Internet service providers. Our business is particularly vulnerable to such occurrences because we not only would suffer the effects experienced by businesses in general, we would be unable to perform online surveys, which represent a significant portion of our business. Thus, we would have to find alternative means to conduct surveys or would be unable to effectively service the needs of many of our clients. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our business may be harmed if we cannot maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Stock Market. Variations in our operating results may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly and we have and may continue to incur losses in any given quarter. Our future results of operations have and may again fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Other factors, such as general market conditions and investor’s perceptions of our longer term prospects, also may cause fluctuations in the price of our common stock. To maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market we must satisfy certain minimum financial and other continued listing standards, including, among other requirements (amounts below are in thousands of U.S. Dollars, except for share and per share data): • minimum $10,000 stockholder’s equity, • minimum 750,000 publicly traded shares, • minimum $5,000 market value of publicly held shares, • $1.00 per share minimum bid price, and • two registered and active market makers. Citing extraordinary market conditions, on October 16, 2008 and again on December 19, 2008, March 23, 2009 and July 13, 2009, Nasdaq suspended application of the requirements related to minimum market value of listed securities and minimum bid price. On August 3, 2009, the requirements were reinstated with a new measurement period commencing on that date. Any failure to meet the market value requirement must continue for 10 consecutive days and may be cured within 30 days after notification by Nasdaq of non-compliance by meeting the standard for 10 consecutive business days. Any failure to meet the minimum bid price requirement must continue for 30 consecutive business days and may be cured within 180 days after notification by Nasdaq of non-compliance by meeting the standard for 10, or in Nasdaq’s discretion 20 or more, consecutive business days. If we fail to meet these requirements, we would have the option to apply to transfer our securities to the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would provide us with an additional 180 days to 16 Table of Contents meet the $1.00 minimum bid requirement. If we fail to meet the minimum bid requirement after that additional 180 days have elapsed, Nasdaq may provide written notification to us regarding the de-listing of our common stock. At that time, we would have the right to request a hearing to appeal the Nasdaq de-listing determination. Since November 14, 2008, the bid price of our common stock has been below $1.00 per share. As of August 25, 2009, the bid price of our common stock was $0.82 per share and our approximate market value for listed securities was $44.2 million. There can be no assurance that we will meet the continued listing requirements for the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or that any appeal of a decision to de-list our common stock will be successful. If our common stock loses its status on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, shares of our common stock would likely trade in the over-the-counter market bulletin board, commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” If our stock were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is de-listed, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity of our common stock. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, liquidity, value and marketability of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or forward-looking statements we have made, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, some of which are outside our control, including declines in general economic conditions or the budgets of our clients, changes in the demand for market research and polling products and services, currency fluctuations, the timing of client projects, and competition in the industry, and others which are partially within our control, including the amount of new business generated, effective management of the professional services aspects of our business, including utilization and realization rates, the mix of domestic and international business, and the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services. An inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow may impact our operating and other activities. The potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. Furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or forward-looking statements we have made. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. The trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts’ recommendations regarding our securities, and our performance relative to securities analysts’ expectations for any quarterly period. Further, even though our stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, our stock has had and may continue to have low trading volume and high volatility. The historically low trading volume of our stock makes it more likely that a significant fluctuation in volume, either up or down, will significantly impact the stock price. Because of the relatively low trading volume of our stock, our stockholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and applicable law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our board of directors into three classes, eliminates the right of stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting, and provides our board of directors with the power to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The preferred stock could have voting, dividend, liquidation, and other rights established by the board of directors that are superior to those of our common stock. Our board of directors also adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock outstanding as of March 29, 2005, and one right attaches to each share issued thereafter until a specified date. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise of each right shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to the exercise price of the right divided by 50% of the then market price of our common stock. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that impose restrictions on stockholder action to acquire our company. The effect of these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could discourage or prevent third parties from seeking to obtain control of us, including transactions in which the holders of common stock might receive a premium for their shares over prevailing market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 