RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Industry Our business has been and may continue to be materially affected by changes to, or interpretation of, government regulation around the world that may apply to online gaming. The Company and our licensees are subject to applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Our licensees hold government licenses to operate Internet gaming sites in Malta. Some jurisdictions have introduced regulations attempting to restrict or prohibit Internet gaming, while other jurisdictions have taken the position that Internet gaming is legal and have adopted or are in the process of considering legislation to regulate Internet gaming. While the U.K. and other European countries such as Malta and Gibraltar are adopting a regulated online gaming approach, there are some opposing views. Some countries, including Italy, Germany and France, where there are state-owned monopolies, are taking action aimed at banning foreign online gaming operators. Such actions by these European Union (E.U.) member states are in conflict with a decision of the European Court of Justice that challenges the monopolies and have prompted the European Commission (EC) to look at creating new legislation that could harmonize online gaming within the E.U., which is in line with the EC’s goal to encourage a free and open cross-border market. There is no indication that any such directives will be introduced in the near term. In the meantime, however, the EC has initiated infringement proceedings against some member states in relation to perceived breaches of Articles 43 and 49 of the EC Treaty (which articles enshrine the principles of freedom of establishment and movement of services). Any decision of the European Court of Justice or legislation promulgated by the EC that effectively prohibits online gaming in E.U. member states could have a severe material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. As companies and consumers involved in Internet gaming are located around the globe, including our licensees and their players, there is uncertainty regarding which government has authority to regulate or legislate the industry. Legislation designed to prohibit Internet gaming was enacted on October 13, 2006 in the United States (UIGEA), and may be adopted in other jurisdictions. Future decisions may have a material impact on our operations and financial results. There is a risk that governmental authorities may view us or our licensees as having violated the local law of their end users, despite CryptoLogic’s requirement that each licensee is licensed to operate an Internet gaming business by the governmental authority of the country in which the gaming servers associated with the licensees’ gaming operations are located. Therefore, there is a risk that civil and criminal proceedings, including class actions brought by or on behalf of public entities or private individuals, could be initiated against us, our licensees, Internet service providers, credit card processors, advertisers and others involved in the Internet gaming industry and could involve substantial litigation expense, penalties, fines, injunctions or other remedies or restrictions being imposed upon us or our licensees or others while diverting the attention of key executives. Such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that prohibiting legislation will not be proposed and passed in potentially relevant jurisdictions to legislate or regulate various aspects of the Internet or the Internet gaming industry. The burden of compliance with any such legislation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There have recently been a number of legal developments associated with the manner in which the business of gaming, and in particular, Internet gaming, is treated in the U.K. and Continental Europe. Some of these developments can be considered as positive and some as negative. In this regard a brief summary of the regulatory situation in the U.K. and Europe follows: 4 United Kingdom In September 2007, the U.K. Gambling Act went into force, which regulates online gaming for the first time in that jurisdiction. Most of the underlying codes in relation to entities established in the U.K., or marketing into the U.K. have now been enacted. However, there is no assurance that the U.K. regulatory regime as interpreted by the Gambling Commission, the Gambling Act’s regulator, will provide a commercially-viable market and may create restrictions that would have a material adverse effect on CryptoLogic’s customers, business, revenues, operating results and/or financial condition. Continental Europe France and Germany: France and Germany in particular appear to be moving towards imposing greater restrictions on internet gaming operators, both by virtue of proposed changes to legislation and through heightened enforcement measures. In June of 2008, according to the French budget minister, France is set to begin a “controlled opening up” of online gambling markets over the next 18 months. It is possible that adverse legal developments in these countries could have a material adverse impact on the Company and/or its licensees. As of January 1, 2008, an extensive ban outlawing almost all forms of online gambling has been ratified by at least 13 of 16 German states. This ban, known as the German Interstate Treaty (“GST”), bans all Web-based gambling or brokering of all wagering and betting games over the Internet, specifically including the placement of bets with companies located in other countries. The GST, however, is currently subject to an appeal before the European Commission. Italy: Recent willingness by the Italian government to regulate certain forms of Internet gaming could be perceived as indicative of a liberalization of the Internet gaming industry as a whole in that country. However, at present, the form of regulation put forward has failed to create attractive market conditions for many operators. As such, notwithstanding the fact that this market may appear to be liberalizing, in practice, they have not liberalized in a manner, or to a degree, that is helpful to the Company or its licensees. The Company and its licensees remain at risk that Italy may take aggressive action against parties whose operations at are not licensed pursuant to the regulatory regimes established by this country. Spain: Madrid’s regional government has recently implemented new legislation to regulate Internet gaming but it only permits services to be supplied by the licensed entity to Madrid residents. Therefore obtaining a license may be of little commercial value to any operator. Other regions may follow suit. However Spain historically has taken little or no enforcement action against operators of Internet gaming which are based outside the jurisdiction. There is no guarantee however that this position will remain the same if the system of regulation becomes more widespread (so as to create a value in obtaining a license). Holland: CryptoLogic’s licensees presently operate in the Dutch market and the Dutch government has consistently taken steps to support and protect Holland Casino’s monopoly including taking legal action against Internet gaming operators. In the event that the Dutch government seeks to take further steps to protect the online business of Holland Casino by discouraging other operators from operating in the Dutch marketplace, either through changes in legislation or enforcement measures, the Company’s licensees (and CryptoLogic accordingly) could be adversely impacted. In 2008, in a narrow vote, the Dutch parliamentarians decided not to allow its state-sponsored casino operator, Holland Casino, to operate its own casino and poker room software which was to be supplied by CryptoLogic. CryptoLogic was fully compensated for its development work. Scandinavia: Governments in most Scandinavian countries have attempted to discourage their citizens from gambling with online operators by taxing their citizens’ winnings. Generally speaking, winnings realized through a state 5 sponsored operator are not taxable, but winnings from other sources can be subject to inconsistent application of taxation law in relation to domestic and non-domestic products in the E.U. Until such time as the tax authorities in the various countries make an official pronouncement on the manner in which these tax laws will be applied, it is unclear as to what impact these tax policies will have on the business of the Company’s licensees. In Norway, The government banned online gambling in December 2008, a ban that will come into force by the end of 2009. The ban, challenged by the E.U., means only state-owned gambling services will remain legal. In Denmark, the state monopoly on online gambling is being reconsidered by Danish government in light of European Union criticism. United States Since the enactment of UIGEA in October 2006, the Company has prohibited its licensees from taking any wagers from the U.S. The UIGEA made it illegal to accept any funds connected with unlawful Internet gaming, although some U.S. enforcement agencies claimed that previous existing legislation similarly outlawed both the supply and related payments. Although CryptoLogic historically derived a majority of its revenues from sources outside of the U.S., given that the Company had previously derived licensing revenue and provided payment processing solutions (through its e-cash services) on behalf of some licensees who took wagers from the U.S., there is no guarantee that the U.S. Department of Justice will not seek to prosecute the Company, its officers or directors for alleged historic transgressions or similarly prosecute its licensees or their directors or shareholders. Such proceedings could result in criminal penalties, substantial fines, damages and sequestration of assets. They also could damage the reputation of the Company, divert the time of the Company’s key executives and have a material adverse effect on the business, revenues, operating results and/or financial condition of the Company. U.S. banks have ceased to accept online gaming transactions. This has inhibited the growth of the industry and our business. With the enactment of the UIGEA, financial institutions in the United States ceased to accept online gaming transactions. This event continued to have a negative impact on the Internet gaming industry as a whole, on our licensees, and on the Company, as evidenced by lower revenues and earnings in 2007 and 2008. There can be no assurance that other financial institutions or credit card issuers outside the United States will not enact additional restrictions. Any such developments would have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. The loss of a major payment option could have a material adverse affect on our business. In the occurrence online gaming transactions are again accepted in the United States, we would expect revenues and earnings to increase. There can be no assurance that our systems and measures in place will or can guarantee protection against fraudulent activities and unauthorized access from minors, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, revenue, operating results and financial conditions. We attempt to mitigate these concerns with systematic controls and a dedicated fraud team. There is an audit trail for every transaction contrary to land-based gaming activities that are primarily cash processors. As well, we establish relationships with financial institutions that are subject to stringent banking regulations in their respective jurisdictions. The adoption of new laws or changes to or the application of existing laws relating to Internet commerce may affect the growth of our business. In addition to regulations pertaining specifically to online gaming, we may become subject to any number of laws and regulations that may be adopted with respect to the Internet and electronic commerce. New laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. As well, current laws, which predate or are incompatible with the Internet and electronic commerce, may be applied and enforced in a manner that restricts the electronic commerce market. The application of such pre-existing laws regulating communications or commerce in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, libel and personal privacy are applicable to the Internet. 6 The adoption of new laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business or could otherwise have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Most major economies are in a deep recession and unless these economies improve it will adversely impact our business. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. Access to public financing has been negatively impacted by both the rapid decline in value of sub-prime mortgages and the liquidity crisis affecting the asset-backed commercial paper market. These factors may impact the ability of the Company to obtain equity or debt financing in the future on terms favourable to the Company. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, the Company’s operations could be adversely impacted and the trading price of the Common Shares may be adversely affected. Our business depends on the reliability of the infrastructure that supports the Internet and the viability of the Internet. The growth of Internet usage has caused frequent interruptions and delays in processing and transmitting data over the Internet. There can be no assurance that the Internet infrastructure or the Company’s own network systems will continue to be able to support the demands placed on it by the continued growth of the Internet, the overall online gaming industry or that of our customers. The Internet’s viability could be affected if the necessary infrastructure is not sufficient, or if other technologies and technological devices eclipse the Internet as a viable channel. End-users of our software depend on Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), online service providers and our system infrastructure for access to the Internet gaming sites operated by our licensees. Many of these services have experienced service outages in the past and could experience service outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures, stability or interruption. Our licensees may lose customers as a result of delays or interruption in service, including delays or interruptions relating to high volumes of traffic or technological problems. As a result, we may not be able to meet a level of service that we have contracted for, and we may be in breach of our contractual commitments, which could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Internet gaming is a developing industry and therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to develop and our products and services will continue to be in demand. The Internet gaming industry continues to evolve rapidly and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. The demand and acceptance for new products and services are subject to a level of uncertainty and growing competition, and if our production services do not continue to receive market acceptance, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Internet gaming software and electronic commerce services are subject to security risks, which may inhibit the growth of the industry and the acceptance of our products and services. Our Internet gaming software and electronic commerce services are reliant on technologies and network systems to securely handle transactions and user information over the Internet, which may be vulnerable to system intrusions, unauthorized access or manipulation. As users become increasingly sophisticated and devise new ways to commit fraud, our security and network systems may be tested and subject to attack. We have experienced such 7 system attacks in the past and implemented measures to protect against these intrusions. However, there is no assurance that all such intrusions or attacks will or can be prevented in the future, and any system intrusion/attack may cause a delay, interruption or financial loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition. We may be vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on other parties. Our electronic commerce product relies on ISPs to allow our licensees’ customers and servers to communicate with each other. If ISPs experience service interruptions, it may prevent communication over the Internet and impair our ability to carry on business. In addition, our ability to process e-commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for system problems, we are strengthening and enhancing our current facilities and the capability of our system infrastructure and support. Nevertheless, any system failure as a result of reliance on third parties, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We face growing competition from known competitors and new entrants in the Internet gaming, e-commerce and broader entertainment industries. Licensees of our software compete with existing and established recreational services and products, in addition to other forms of entertainment. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance our products and services to keep pace with technological developments, respond to evolving customer requirements and achieve continued market acceptance. We compete with a number of public and private companies, which provide electronic commerce and/or Internet gaming software. In addition to known current competitors, traditional land-based casino operators and other entities, many of which have significant financial resources, an entrenched position in the market and name-brand recognition, may provide Internet gaming services in the future, and thus become our competitors. As well, such companies may be able to require that their own software, rather than the software of others, including our gaming software or our e-cash systems and support, be used in connection with their payment mechanisms. The barriers to entry into most Internet markets are relatively low, making them accessible to a large number of entities and individuals. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry that create certain barriers to entry include reputation, technology, financial stability and resources, proven track record of successful operations, critical mass (particularly relating to online poker), regulatory compliance, independent oversight and transparency of business practices. While these barriers will limit those able to enter or compete effectively in the market, it is likely that new competitors will be established in the future, in addition to our known current competitors. Increased competition from current and future competitors has and may in the future result in price reductions and reduced margins, or may result in the loss of our market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our revenues are generated from a concentration of key licensees. In fiscal 2008, our top 7 licensees accounted for approximately 81% (2007: 79%) of our total revenue. In addition, all our key licensees operate from one licensing jurisdiction. The loss of one or more of these key licensees, or the loss of their license to operate in the licensing jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. 8 Our future revenues depend on licensees renewing their contracts. Licensing contracts generally have three-year terms, are exclusive, and have renewal provisions, which provide us with a long term ongoing revenue stream. Contracts are subject to renewal, renegotiation and may be contingent on certain performance requirements. There can be no assurance that license agreements will be renewed or that there will not be a material change in the terms of the contract, which could adversely affect our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with chargebacks. We are subject to exposure in regard to chargebacks, which may also result in possible penalties and elimination of the payment option. Chargebacks are any deposit transaction credited to a user’s account that is later reversed or repudiated. While the Company has fraud control measures to minimize exposure and provision for chargebacks, this factor could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial conditions. Our operations are global, which adds complexity to our ability to execute on our strategies. As companies and consumers involved in Internet gaming, including the players of our licensees, are located around the globe, there is uncertainty regarding exactly which government has jurisdiction or authority to regulate or legislate with respect to various aspects of the industry. The uncertainty surrounding the regulation of Internet gaming in the various jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There are certain difficulties and risks inherent in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks, and changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, of jurisdictions in which we, our subsidiaries and our licensees operate, and in which our licensees’ customers are located, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain or increase revenue derived from international operations or that we will be able to penetrate linguistic, cultural or other barriers to new foreign markets. Fluctuations in the value of U.S. dollar impact our reported results. Our financial results are reported in U.S. currency, which is subject to fluctuations in respect of the currencies of the countries in which we operate, including British pounds, euro, and Canadian dollars. This was a significant challenge in 2008, as the U.S. dollar – the Company’s reporting currency – appreciated substantially against the euro and the British pound, currencies in which CryptoLogic transacts a significant amount of business. In the future, fluctuations in the exchange rate of world currencies could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. We may utilize a hedging program from time to time and/or take advantage of the natural hedge in having operations in multiple currencies to mitigate a portion of our currency risks, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our effective tax rate may change if certain estimates and assumptions are successfully challenged. We are subject to income taxes in Ireland, Canada, Cyprus, Malta and other jurisdictions. Our tax calculations involve estimations in several areas including, but not limited to, transfer pricing. Tax authorities may 9 disagree with our estimations and assess additional taxes. We regularly review the likely outcomes of such assessments in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, actual outcomes may differ and could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. In particular, the carrying value of future tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the jurisdiction where we have recognized the deferred tax assets. We are subject to litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business. We, and certain of our subsidiaries, may be involved in litigation arising in the ordinary course and conduct of business. The outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, from time to time, third parties have asserted and may continue to assert patent, trademark, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies or business methods that we consider important. There can be no assurance that the assertion of such claims will not result in litigation or that we would prevail in any such litigation or be able to obtain a license for the use of any infringed intellectual property from a third party or, if such a license is required, that it would be available on terms acceptable to us. If a third-party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may continue to claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs and/or licensing fees in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. As such, the outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and could have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We may fail to protect our intellectual property and thereby reduce our competitive position. Our Company has patents and trademarks in certain jurisdictions and is in the process of applying for further trademark registrations and patents, which may provide such protection in relevant jurisdictions. However, there can be no assurance that this will be sufficient to fully protect our proprietary technology. In addition, certain provisions of our license agreements, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, transfer and disclosure, may be found to be unenforceable in certain jurisdictions. We believe that patent, trademark, copyright and other legal protections are less significant to our success than other factors such as the knowledge, ability and experience of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent product enhancements, customer service and ongoing product support. 10 We also have a proprietary interest in our name. The names “CryptoLogic” and “WagerLogic” have become known in the Internet gaming industry. Accordingly, our competitive position could be affected if our name was misappropriated and our reputation in any way compromised. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our technology or independent development by others of technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Any misappropriation of our name, technology or development of competitive technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Due to the complex, sophisticated and global nature of the business, there can be no assurance that there has been no breach of third parties’ intellectual property rights by the Company, and any adverse judgment in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We depend on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends on our ability to attract such skilled personnel in the future. Competition for personnel is intense. In order to retain our employees, we provide many of them with cash and stock-based awards that can be realized over time to increase longer-term commitments. We cannot be assured that we can retain our key personnel in the future. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, could make it difficult for us to meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances. Under paragraph 42 of the Articles of Association of the Company, our directors and senior officers are fully indemnified out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, expenses and liabilities which they may incur by reason of any contract entered into or any act in or about the execution of their respective offices, and for all acts done honestly and in good faith and in the best interests of the Company, and for all acts done for which they had reasonable grounds for believing such action was lawful, except such (if any) as they shall incur by or through their own willful act, neglect or default respectively. Under current U.S., Guernsey and Canadian law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees Under current U.S., Guernsey and Canadian law, we may not be able to enforce, in whole or in part, agreements that prohibit some of our employees from competing with us or working for our competitors after they cease working for us. It may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. Competitors and others have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees. While our employees are required to sign standard agreements concerning confidentiality and ownership of inventions, we may not be able to prevent them from working with our competitors and providing their expertise to such companies. If we are unable to enforce covenants not to compete, our competitors may gain access to employees who are knowledgeable about certain of our proprietary information, which could harm our business. 11 There is no assurance that we will continue to effectively develop and manage growth in our business. We have a history of growth. The expansion of our business and the increasing complexity of our product offerings, coupled with the rapid evolution of our markets, and increasing competition that will put pressure on margins have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational resources and to increase demands on our internal systems, procedures and controls. Our future operating results will depend on management’s ability to develop and manage growth, enhance our products and services to respond to market demand, deal with competition and evolving customer requirements, manage our system infrastructure and requirements to meet the growing demands of our business, hire and retain significant numbers of qualified employees, accurately forecast revenues and control expenses. A decline in the growth rate of our revenues without a corresponding and timely slowdown in our expenses, or our inability to manage or build future growth efficiently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our operations may be subject to risks associated with future acquisitions and investments. As part of our business strategy, we have and may continue to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses or technology that offer complementary products, services, and technologies. Any acquisition or investment will be accompanied by risks, including the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; the potential diversion of the attention of management from our business; the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of our Company or returns from the investment or acquired businesses; changing technology approach and requirements, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and the impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of and integration of the investment, acquisition or new personnel. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common shares has experienced significant fluctuation and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common shares may be adversely affected by various factors, such as proposed Internet gaming legislation or enforcement of existing laws, the loss of a customer, the announcement of new products or enhancements, innovation and technological changes, quarterly variations in revenue and results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by financial analysts, speculation in the press or analyst community and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries, including the Internet and gaming. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These company-specific or broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price for our common shares. Anti-online gaming legislation could also impact our ability to remain listed. There is no assurance that there will always be a liquid market for our shares. Although our common shares are listed and traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the London Stock Exchange’s Main Market, this should not imply that there will always be a liquid market in our common shares. In addition, pursuant to the Arrangement business reorganization completed in 2007 described on page 1 of this annual report, exchangeable shares of an indirect subsidiary of the Company, CEC were issued, and are listed and traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Because of separate listings, the trading prices of the common shares and CEC shares may not reflect equivalent values. Company-specific or broader market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the exchangeable shares, and there can be no assurance that there will continue to be an active market for these securities. 12 Civil liabilities or judgments against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state securities laws may not be enforceable. The Company is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Guernsey with principal operating offices in Ireland. All of the Company’s directors and officers reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all the directly owned assets of the Company are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process within the United States against the Company or its directors and officers or to enforce against them any of the judgments, including those obtained in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of the U.S. courts, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. 