Risk Factors This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Related to our Company and Industry We may incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have a net loss of Rs. 383.34 million ($ 7.49 million) for the year ended March 31, 2012 with an accumulated deficit of Rs.13,990 million ($273.46 million) as at March 31, 2012. We may in the future incur additional net losses and suffer negative operating cash flows. We expect to increase our expenditures as we continue to expand our services, promote our brand, and invest in the expansion of our infrastructure. We have incurred and in the future may incur expenses in connection with investments in data centers and infrastructure. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant additional revenues in order to become profitable. Our business model is not yet proven in the consumer space, and we cannot assure you that we will improve our profitability or that we will not incur operating losses in the future. If we are unable to become profitable and continue to sustain losses, we will be unable to build a sustainable business and our results of operations will be adversely affected. In this event, the price of our ADSs and the value of your investment may decline. Our profits may be impacted consequent to the withdrawal of incentive for exports availed under the Serve from India Scheme on account of changes in Indian Government policy. The Government of India had introduced “the Served from India Scheme” (the “Scheme”) in order “to accelerate growth in export of services so as to create a powerful and unique Served from India brand, instantly recognized and respected world over.” Under the Scheme, all service providers (the exporter of various services) are entitled to a customs duty credit called ‘Duty credit scrip’ at 10% of the foreign exchange earned during the financial year. A service provider will be eligible for such duty credit scrip only on satisfaction of two conditions: (a) the service provider should export services; and (b) the service provider should earn foreign exchange. This duty credit may be used for settling the customs duty payable to the Government of India on the import of any capital goods including spares, office equipment and professional equipment, office furniture and consumables, provided it is part of their main line of business. The new Foreign Trade (2009-2014) policy announced by The Commerce Ministry of Government of India, on August 27, 2009 has explicitly excluded the telecom Sector, which is the sector in which we operate, from the purview of Served From India Scheme (SFIS). As a result of this new policy document, we are not eligible for the export incentive on Foreign Exchange earnings from all existing business streams other than E-learning and Infrastructure management services prospectively. The loss of credits from the above scheme may adversely impact the financial condition and operating results. Effective August 2009 and subsequent notification in 2011, this benefit was withdrawn for our exports, which has adversely affected our results of operations. The global economic environment, increased pricing pressure and decreased utilization rates could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Spending on technology products and services in most parts of the world has been rising for the past several years. However, there was a decline in the growth rate of global IT purchases due to the economic slowdown and we believe the market may not recover in near term. With regard to the domestic Indian economy, pricing and competition continue to be under pressure. Lead times for orders or contracts have become much longer, as we have longer credit periods. These factors have affected the growth in demand for our corporate connectivity and consumer services. Overseas economic performance also has a bearing on our Infrastructure and e-Learning businesses segments. Currency fluctuations will also lead to variations in revenue. The National Long Distance (‘NLD’) / International Long Distance (‘ILD’) business and eLearning may be affected in terms of prices and growth. 9 Table of Contents Reduction in IT spending and extended credit terms arising from or related to the economic slowdown, and any resulting pricing pressures, reduction in billing rates, increased credit risk may adversely impact our revenues, gross profits, operating margins and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may affect the results or our operations or the value of our ADSs. The exchange rate between the rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. We use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts, to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on accounts receivable and payable and forecast cash flows denominated in US dollar. We may not purchase derivative instruments for a sufficient amount to adequately insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks, and over the past year, we have incurred significant losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations that have not been offset in full by our hedging strategy. For the year ended March 31, 2012, we have recognized a gain of Rs.37.65 million ($0.74 million) on foreign exchange translations. If foreign exchange currency markets continue to be volatile, such fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. Also, the volatility in the foreign currency markets may make it difficult to hedge our foreign currency exposures effectively and make them expensive. Further, the policies of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may change from time to time which may limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposures adequately. On August 2, 2011, the RBI issued Comprehensive Guideline on Derivatives to the banks/dealers with regard to suitability and appropriateness policy for offering derivative products to users. In addition, a high-level committee appointed by the Reserve Bank of India had recommended that India move to increased capital account convertibility, and proposed a framework for such increased convertibility. Full or increased capital account convertibility, if introduced, could result in increased volatility in the fluctuations of exchange rates between the rupee and US dollar. Our US customers may leave us exposed to fluctuation in revenues based on currency fluctuations. We may encounter legal confrontations as the Information Technology Act 2000 lacks specificity as to issues on online processes and/or Internet. We believe that the Information Technology Act of 2000, (As amended by IT (Amendment) Act 2008 (the “ITA”), an Indian regulation, does not address all areas of online processes or the Internet. In exercise of the powers conferred by ITA 2000, the Government of India issued rules in April 2011 called Information Technology rules with stringent privacy norms for Internet Service Providers and the intermediary who is handling sensitive personal information. The ITA has mandated the service providers to maintain transactions, receipts, vouchers in specific formats. The records should be produced for inspection and audit by a government nominated agency or person. The Government of India is authorized to audit security and privacy protection measures. We are exposed to risks relating to unauthorized access, non-compliance of regulations by our franchisees for the cybercafés. Such events may negatively affect our reputation, and violations of the Information Act may result in fines, litigation or cause us to incur legal costs, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Intense competition in our businesses could prevent us from improving our profitability and we may be required to further modify the rates we charge for our services in response to new pricing models introduced by new and existing competition which would significantly affect our revenues. Our corporate network/data services compete with well-established companies, including Bharti Airtel, Tata Communications Limited or TCL, Reliance Infocomm, HCL Infinet, Tata Teleservices, Tulip Telecom Limited and the government-owned telecom companies, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited or BSNL, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited or MTNL. A significant number of competitors have entered India’s Internet service provider industry. The large players, especially the state run telecommunication companies, may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including greater financial resources, which could allow them to charge prices that are lower than ours in order to attract subscribers. These factors have resulted in periods of significant reduction in actual average selling prices for consumer Internet Service Provider, or ISP, services. We expect the market for Internet access and other connectivity services to remain extremely price competitive. Increased competition may result in operating losses, loss of market share and diminished value in our services, as well as different pricing, service or marketing decisions. In addition, competition may generally cause us to incur unanticipated costs associated with research and product development. Additionally, we believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on factors outside our control, such as the availability of skilled employees in India, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services, and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to their clients’ needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors, or that we will not lose key employees or customers to such competitors, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Margin squeeze may affect the results or our operations. Our margins have been stagnant recently due to competitive pricing pressure. Competition will continue to increase with the entry of new competitors into the enterprise service category. However, these competitors generally would prefer to operate with a few global customers who have business interest in India. They may attract customers for managed hosting services with their capability of superior network and competitive pricing. We expect the market for such services to remain extremely price competitive. Increased competition may result in the reduction of profit margin which would impact our results of operations. Procuring power at lower costs for data centers by the competitors may put us at a disadvantage in terms of pricing for our data center operations. The single largest operating cost in data centers is power, and if a competitor were to have a source of power at a significantly lower cost, it could be a disadvantage to us. Currently all data centers are now located in proximity to, or at the edge of major urban centers such as Mumbai, inexpensive land and labor allow companies to locate new data centers in remote locations. We may neither be in a position to develop data centers at remote locations where power is cheap nor procure power at cheaper rates for our data centers. If our competitors procure power at lower cost, they may have an advantage over us with respect to pricing. Our inability to offer competitive pricing may result in loss of customers and will impact our business and result of operations. We have added a number of new lines of business in the past years, including the operation and licensing of public Internet cafés, as well as the provision of broadband services, security services, e-learning software development services, managed network services, infrastructure management services and cloud offerings. The risks we face in developing Internet service market include our inability to: • continue to develop and upgrade our technology; • maintain and develop strategic relationships with business partners; • offer compelling online services and content; We cannot assure you that we will successfully address the risks or difficulties described above. Failure to do so could lead to an inability to attract and retain corporate customers for our network/data services and subscribers for our Internet access services as well as the loss of advertising revenues. Despite our best efforts to optimize costs, our future operating results could fluctuate in part because our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term while future revenues are uncertain, and any adverse fluctuations could negatively impact the price of our ADSs. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. A significant portion of our investment and cost base is relatively fixed in the short term. Our revenues for the foreseeable future will depend on many factors, including the following: • the range of corporate network/data services provided by us and the usage thereof by our customers; • the number of subscribers to our ISP services and the prevailing prices charged. • the timing and nature of any agreements we enter into with strategic partners of our corporate network/data services division; • services, products or pricing policies introduced by our competitors; • capital expenditure and other costs relating to our operations; 11 Table of Contents • the timing and nature of our marketing efforts; • our ability to successfully integrate operations and technologies from any acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations or investments; • the introduction of alternative technologies; and • technical difficulties or system failures affecting the telecommunication infrastructure in India, the Internet generally or the operation of our websites. • The range of web hosting services provided by us and the subscription thereof by our customers. We plan to continue to expand and invest in network infrastructure. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. We cannot assure you that our revenues will increase in proportion to the increase in our expenses. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenues shortfall. This could lead to a shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. You should not rely on yearly comparisons of our results of operations as indicators of future performance and operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our ADSs may decline. Security breaches could damage our reputation or result in liability to us. Our facilities and infrastructure must remain secure, and be perceived by our corporate and consumer customers to be secure, because we retain confidential customer information in our database. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer hacking, computer viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems beyond our control. If a person circumvents our security measures, he or she could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on our systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions to our operations. We may be required to make significant additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The security services that we offer in connection with our business customers’ networks cannot assure complete protection from computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptive problems and the occurrence of these problems could result in claims against us or liability on our part. These claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in costly litigation and could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to attract and retain customers for our service offerings. We face a competitive labor market for skilled personnel and therefore are highly dependent on our existing key personnel and on our ability to hire additional skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key personnel including our senior management team, including our Chairman, Raju Vegesna. Each of our employees may voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified technical, marketing and sales personnel. The labor market for skilled employees in India is extremely competitive, and the process of hiring employees with the necessary skills is time consuming and requires the diversion of significant resources. We may not be able to continue to retain or integrate existing personnel or identify and hire additional personnel in the future. The loss of the services of key personnel or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could disrupt the implementation of our business strategy, upon which the success of our business depends. The failure to keep our technical knowledge confidential could erode our competitive advantage. Our technical know-how is not protected by intellectual property rights such as patents, and is principally protected by maintaining its confidentiality. We rely on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements. As a result, we cannot be certain that our know-how will remain confidential in the long run. Employment contracts with certain of our employees who have special technical knowledge about our products or our business contain a general obligation to keep all such knowledge confidential. In addition to the confidentiality provisions, these employment agreements typically contain non-competition clauses. 12 Table of Contents If either the confidentiality provisions or the non-competition clauses are unenforceable, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of our know-how. In the event that confidential technical information or know-how about our products or business becomes available to third parties or to the public, our competitive advantage over other companies in the wireless based IP/VPN industry could be harmed which could have a material adverse effect on our current business, future prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. Further, from the year 2011, there has been an increased focus on corporate governance by the U.S. Congress and by the SEC in response to the recent credit and financial crisis in the United States. As a result of this increased focus, additional corporate governance standards have been promulgated with respect to companies whose securities are listed in the United States, including by way of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank, and more governance standards are expected to be imposed on companies whose securities are listed in the United States in the near future. Indian regulatory authorities are increasingly focused on standards of accounting, auditing, public disclosure and corporate governance and may impose new regulations that are lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, it may become more expensive and/or more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance due to increase in premium rates. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties and our SEC reporting obligations. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations, our business and reputation may be harmed. We may inadvertently fail to comply with local laws of other countries in connection with the negotiation and execution of operational agreements. As part of our international business, we may negotiate with and enter into contracts with strategic partners, clients, suppliers, employees and other third parties in various countries. We may inadvertently fail to comply with their laws may result in lawsuits or penalties, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our financial results are impacted by the financial results of entities that we do not control. We have a significant, non-controlling minority interest in MF Global Sify Securities India Private Limited (formerly known as Man Financial Sify Securities India Private Limited) which was accounted for under IFRS using the equity method of accounting until March 23, 2012. Under this method, we generally are obligated to report as “share of profit of equity accounted investee” a pro rata portion of the net income after tax of any such Company in our statement of operations even though we do not control such Company, subject to limitations in the case of losses that exceed our cost of investment. Thus, our reported results of operations can be significantly increased or decreased depending on the results of MF Global Sify Securities India Private Limited or other companies in which we may make similar investments even though we may have only a limited ability to influence these activities. Effective March 23, 2012, such investment was treated as ‘non-current asset held for sale’ and the equity method of accounting was discontinued. On August 2, 2012, we have completed the sale of our entire stake in MF Global Sify Securities India Private Limited. Our inter-city network is leased from other service providers and is dependent on their quality and availability. We have provided inter-city connectivity for our connectivity customers through lease arrangements rather than through capital investment in assets for connectivity business. Our ability to offer high quality telecommunications services depends, to a large extent, on the quality of the networks maintained by other operators, and their continued availability, neither of which is under our control. However, the abundance of supply of inter-city connectivity provides us with the ability of switching to companies offering better services. Although we always use more than one service provider where required, there can be no assurance that this dependence on external parties would not affect our network availability. Any prolonged loss of network availability could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The legal system in India does not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. We hold no patents, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our services or proprietary information. In addition, the laws of India do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination of our services. For example, the legal processes to protect service marks in India are not as effective as those in place in the United States. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time-consuming and costly. We could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and the content and functionality of our websites or other service offerings overlap with competitive offerings. Our defenses against these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our Company. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our current infrastructure and its scalability may not accommodate increased use while maintaining acceptable overall performance. Currently, only a relatively limited number of customers use our corporate network, our Internet service provider services and our Internet portal. We must continue to add to our network infrastructure to accommodate additional users, increasing transaction volumes and changing customer requirements. We may not be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our websites or upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. Our systems may not accommodate increased use while maintaining acceptable overall performance. Service lapses could cause our users to use the online services of our competitors, and numerous customer defections may adversely affect our results of operations. Our increasing work with governmental agencies may expose us to additional risks. We are increasingly bidding for work with governments and governmental agencies for data centers and other projects. Projects involving governments or governmental agencies carry various risks inherent in the government contracting process, including the following: • Such projects may be subject to a higher risk of reduction in scope or termination than other contracts due to political and economic factors such as changes in government, pending elections or the reduction in, or absence of, adequate funding; • Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous than other contracts and may include, among other things, extensive rights of audit, more punitive service level penalties and other restrictive covenants. Also, the terms of such contracts are often subject to change due to political and economic factors; • Government contracts are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other contracts. Any negative publicity related to such contracts, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity, may adversely affect our business or reputation; • Participation in government contracts could subject us to stricter regulatory requirements, which may increase our cost of compliance; and • Such projects may involve multiple parties in the delivery of services and require greater project management efforts on our part. Any failure in this regard may adversely impact our performance. 14 Table of Contents • In addition, we operate in jurisdictions in which local business practices may be inconsistent with international regulatory requirements, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery regulations prescribed under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which, among other things, prohibits giving or offering to give anything of value with the intent to influence the awarding of government contracts. Although we believe that we have adequate policies and enforcement mechanisms to ensure legal and regulatory compliance with the FCPA, and other similar regulations, it is possible that some of our employees, subcontractors, agents or partners may violate any such legal and regulatory requirements, which may expose us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including penalties. If we fail to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, our business and reputation may be harmed. We do not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends to date because of the accumulated losses in the previous years. We may not pay a cash dividend in the near future in anticipation of meeting the fund requirements for facilitating future expansion plans of the Company. Investors who purchase our ADS may not see immediate returns. Risks Related to the ADSs and Our Trading Market The interests of our significant shareholder, Mr Raju Vegesna, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may differ from your interests. Effective as of October 30, 2010, upon the consummation of the private placement to an entity controlled by Mr Raju Vegesna, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the company, Mr Raju Vegesna beneficially owns approximately 86.3% of our outstanding equity shares. Mr P.S.Raju serves on our Board of Directors as a nominee of Infinity Capital Ventures, LP, an entity controlled by Mr Raju Vegesna. As a result, Mr Raju Vegesna will be able to exercise control over many matters requiring approval by our Board of Directors and / or shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a sale of our company. Under Indian law, a simple majority is sufficient to control all shareholder action except for those items, which require approval by a special resolution. If a special resolution is required, the number of votes cast in favour of the resolution must not be less than three times the number of votes cast against it. Examples of actions that require a special resolution include: • altering our Articles of Association; • issuing additional shares of capital stock, except for pro rata issuances to existing shareholders; • commencing any new line of business; and • commencing a liquidation. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of Mr Raju Vegesna could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders or holders of our ADSs. Mr. Vegesna, or the entities that he controls, could delay or prevent a change of control of our Company even if a transaction of that sort would be beneficial to our other shareholders, including the holders of our ADSs. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our ADS holders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our ADS could be adversely affected. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of such investor’s equity interest in us. Under the Companies Act, 1956, or the Indian Companies Act, a Company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. 15 Table of Contents ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, Citibank N.A, (the “Depository”) will mail to holders of our ADSs any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the Depository to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depository receives voting instructions from a holder of our ADSs in time, relating to matters that have been forwarded to such holder, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by such holder’s ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the Depository to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that the holders of our ADSs will receive voting materials in time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to the Depository. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be eligible to vote. Under Indian law, subject to the presence in person at a shareholder meeting of persons holding equity shares representing a quorum, all resolutions proposed to be approved at that meeting are voted on by a show of hands unless a shareholder present in person and holding at least 10% of the total voting power or on which an aggregate sum of not less than Rs.50,000 has been paid-up, at the meeting demands that a poll be taken. Equity shares not represented in person at the meeting, including equity shares underlying ADSs for which a holder has provided voting instructions to the Depository, are not counted in a vote by show of hands. As a result, only in the event that a shareholder present at the meeting demands that a poll be taken will the votes of ADS holders be counted. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted on a poll. Accordingly, you may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our equity shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the SEC’s proxy rules, which regulate the form and content of solicitations by United States-based issuers of proxies from their shareholders. To date, our practice has been to provide advance notice to our ADS holders of all shareholder meetings and to solicit their vote on such matters through the Depository, and we expect to continue this practice. The form of notice and proxy statement that we have been using does not include all of the information that would be provided under the SEC’s proxy rules. The market price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our ADSs has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. Many factors could cause the market price of our ADSs to rise and fall. Some of these factors include: • perception of the level of political and economic stability in India; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcement of technological innovations; • conditions or trends in the corporate network/data services, Internet and electronic commerce industries; • the competitive and pricing environment for corporate network/data services and Internet access services in India and the related cost and availability of bandwidth; • the perceived attractiveness of investment in Indian companies; • acquisitions and alliances by us or others in the industry; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts; • market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole; • introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in the market valuations of other Internet service companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • our failure to integrate successfully our operations with those of any acquired companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. 16 Table of Contents The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly Internet-related companies, have been and continue to be extremely volatile with negative sentiment prevailing. Volatility in the price of our ADSs may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results, which may adversely affect the value of your investment and the price of our ADS’s. An active or liquid market for the ADSs is not assured. We cannot predict that an active, liquid public trading market for our ADSs will continue to exist. Although ADS holders are entitled to withdraw the equity shares underlying the ADSs from the Depository at any time, there is no public market for our equity shares in India or the United States. The loss of liquidity could increase the price volatility of our ADSs. The future sales of securities by us or existing shareholders may reduce the price of our ADSs. Any significant sales of our equity shares or ADSs or a perception that such sales may occur might reduce the price of our ADSs and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We may issue additional equity shares to raise capital and to fund acquisitions and investments, and the parties to any such future transactions could also decide to sell them. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, the cost of capital, and ability to execute our business plan. Access to capital markets is critical to our ability to operate. We may require additional financing in the future for the development of our business. Declines and uncertainties in the global capital markets over the past year have severely restricted raising new capital and have affected companies’ ability to continue to expand or fund new projects. If these economic conditions continue or become worse, our future cost of equity or debt capital and access to the capital markets could be adversely affected. Our ability to obtain future financing will depend on, among other things, our financial condition and results of operations as well as the condition of the capital markets or other credit markets at the time we seek financing. In addition, an inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms due to our low stock price, or upon our delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market if we fail to satisfy a listing requirement, could affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. We can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, we may continue to seek capital through the public or private sale of securities, if market conditions are favorable for doing so. If we are successful in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, stockholders will likely experience substantial dilution. If we are unable to enter into the necessary financing arrangements or sufficient funds are not available on acceptable terms when required, either due to market fluctuations or regulations imposed by the Indian governmental authorities, we may not have sufficient liquidity and our business may be adversely affected. We may be required to list our Equity Shares on an Indian stock exchange. If we were to list our Equity Shares on an Indian stock exchange, conditions in the Indian securities market may require compliance with new and changing regulations framed by Securities Exchange Board of India, listing requirements of stock exchange, corporate governance, accounting and public disclosure requirements which might add uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. The Ministry of Finance of the Government of India (‘MoF’) issued a press release dated March 31, 2006, making amendments to the ‘Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (through Depository Receipt Mechanism) Scheme 1993’ (‘the Scheme’). The amendments included a statement that unlisted Companies which had accessed FCCBs, ADR/GDRs in terms of guidelines of May 22, 1998 and are not making profit, be permitted to comply with listing condition on the domestic stock exchanges within three years of having started making profit. Further, the press release states that no fresh issues of FCCBs, ADR/GDRs by such companies will be permitted without listing first in the domestic exchanges. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to raise further capital for funding the ongoing and future expansion plans of the company. We may be required by the Government of India to list on Indian stock exchange. We may not be able to comply with any timeline for listing and other standards imposed on us, and we are uncertain as to the consequences to us of any non-compliance. If we were to list our equity shares on an Indian stock exchange, we have to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the SEBI rules and regulations and stock exchange listing requirements which may create uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies We are incorporated in India, and a significant majority of our assets and employees are located in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ADSs will be affected by changes in exchange rates, interest rates, Government of India policies, including taxation policies, as well as political, social and economic developments affecting India. Changes in the policies of the Government of India could delay the further liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally, which could impact our business and prospects. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology and telecom companies, foreign investment, exchange rate regime and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. In recent months, Pakistan has been experiencing significant instability and this has heightened the risks of conflict in South Asia. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and the market for our services. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of July 25, 2008 in Bangalore, the attacks of November 26 to 29, 2008 in Mumbai, the attack at New Delhi High Court on September 7, 2011 and other acts of violence have the potential to affect us or our clients. In addition, such attacks may destabilize the economic and political situation in India. Furthermore, such attacks could cause a disruption in the delivery of our services to our clients, and could have a negative impact on our business, personnel, assets and results of operations, and could cause our clients or potential clients to choose other vendors for the services we provide. Terrorist threats, attacks or war could make travel more difficult, may disrupt our ability to provide services to our clients and could delay, postpone or cancel our clients’ decisions to use our services. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties, suffer significant financial losses and be unable to complete our client engagements in a timely manner, if at all. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. In addition, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products or services from us. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to foreign investment restrictions under Indian law that limit our ability to attract foreign investors which, together with the lack of a public market for our equity shares, may adversely impact the value of our ADSs. Currently, there is no public trading market for our equity shares in India or elsewhere nor can we assure you that we will take steps to develop one. Our equity securities are only traded on NASDAQ through the ADSs. Under prior Indian laws and regulations, our Depository could not accept deposits of outstanding equity shares and issue ADRs evidencing ADSs representing such equity shares without prior approval of the Government of India. The Reserve Bank of India has announced fungibility regulations permitting, under limited circumstances, the conversion of ADSs to equity shares and the reconversion of equity shares to ADSs provided that the actual number of ADSs outstanding after such reconversion is not greater than the original number of ADSs outstanding. If you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you will not be able to trade those equity shares on any securities market and, under present law, likely will not be permitted to reconvert those equity shares to ADSs. 18 Table of Contents If in the future a market for our equity shares is established in India or another market outside of the United States, those shares may trade at a discount or premium to the ADSs. Under current Indian regulations and practice, the approval of the Reserve Bank of India is not required for the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident Indian to a resident India as well as for renunciation of rights to a resident of India, unless the sale of equity shares underlying the ADSs is through a recognized stock exchange or in connection with the offer made under the regulations regarding takeovers. Since exchange controls still exist in India, the Reserve Bank of India will approve the price at which the equity shares are transferred based on a specified formula, and a higher price per share may not be permitted. Holders who seek to convert the rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and repatriate that foreign currency from India will have to obtain Reserve Bank of India approval for each transaction. We cannot assure you that any required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency can be obtained. The Government of India may change its regulation of our business or the terms of our license to provide Internet access services, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and VPN services without our consent, and any such change could decrease our revenues and/or increase our costs, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our business is highly regulated as per extant telecom policy of the Government of India (the “GOI”). Our ISP license issued in the year 1998 runs for a term of 15 years. If we are unable to renew the ISP license for any reason, we will not be able to carry on the said business beyond license term, which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. The GOI has right to revoke, terminate or suspend or take over entire operations for reasons such as national security or similar reasons without compensation to us. In view of increasing cyber threats and attacks, the GOI may require telecom licensees (including ISPs) at their costs to provide monitoring facility across its network, and facilities for capture and retention of data in terms of traffic flow, usage details, etc. This would result in significant increase in costs and possible lesser usage due to perceived invasion of privacy by customers. Certain government departments have been making queries whether use of Session Initiation Protocol, or SIP, terminal to make calls to phones abroad is permissible within ISP license. We believe that such overseas phone calls are permitted, since, SIP terminal is a “computer” as defined in Information Technology Act, 2000. We may have to make a significant investment as capital outlay in SIP terminals to make it a PC-equivalent, if the government authorities issue regulations governing SIP usage contrary to our beliefs, which would have a material effect on our results of operations. Our profits may be impacted due to the increase in licence fee on the NLD/ILD licence and inclusion of pure internet service undersuch licence fee by the Department of Telecommunications, Government of India. Effective July 2012, the Government of India amended the NLD/ILD/ISP licence agreements with respect to Annual Licence Fee. Under such amendment, all services under the NLD/ILD licence shall be subject to an increased licence fee from the existing 6% to 7% from July 2012 to March 2013 and 8% from April 2013 onwards. In addition, the Government has also amended the ISP licence and brought the same under such licence fee of 7% from July 2012 till March 2013 and 8% from April 2013 onwards. Such amendments to the NLD / ILD licence agreements will significantly impact the financials of the Company by way of additional cash outflow due to increased licence fees. Increase in License fees paid for licensed spectrum to Department of Telecommunications (‘DoT’) may adversely affect our cost and inturn our cashflow and profitability DoT may increase significantly the license fees to be paid for using the licensed spectrum fees. This will adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that there would not be any increases of license fees in future. 19 Table of Contents In the event that the Government of India or the Government of another country changes its tax policies in a manner that is adverse to us, our tax expense may materially increase, reducing our profitability. The statutory corporate income tax rate in India was 30% during fiscal year 2011 and was subject to a 7.5% surcharge, 2% education tax and 1% secondary and higher education tax, resulting in an effective tax rate of 33.22%. For fiscal year 2012, the statutory corporate income tax rate is still 30% and subject to a 5% surcharge and 2% education tax and 1% secondary and higher education taxes resulting in an effective tax rate of 32.445%. We cannot assure you that the surcharge will be in effect for a limited period of time or that additional surcharges will not be implemented by the Government of India. We may be subject to tax claims by the Government of India against us in the future. Defending these claims would be expensive, time consuming and may divert our management’s attention and resources from our operations. Our working capital position may be impacted negatively consequent to the recent amendment to the Finance act levying Service tax based on negative list of services. In the Finance Bill, 2012, the Government of India has levied service taxes based on a negative list of services. Consequently, all services are likely to become taxable, except exempted services. This may increase the outflow of funds by way of service tax which will impact the working capital funds of the Company. Risks Related to the Internet Market in India Our success will depend in large part on the increased use of the Internet by consumers and businesses in India. However, our ability to exploit the Internet service provider and other data service markets in India is inhibited by a number of factors. If India’s limited Internet usage does not grow substantially, our business may not succeed. The success of our business depends on the acceptance of the Internet in India, which may be slowed or halted by high bandwidth costs and other technical obstacles in India. Bandwidth, the measurement of the volume of data capable of being transported in a communications system in a given amount of time, remains expensive in India, especially when compared to many countries where bandwidth penetration is quite high. Although prices for international and domestic leased lines were substantially reduced recently, they are still high due to, among other things, capacity constraints and lack of competition. If the cost of bandwidth is not further reduced, or increases significantly, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may fail to exploit the market for WiMax services because of lack of access to spectrum. The ability to provide fast and easy connectivity across cities will be a competitive advantage in future as more companies look to provide connectivity to their offices. WiMax, or wireless digital communications, gains significance for ubiquitous connectivity in cities, which will enable fast connectivity in the last mile to the service provider’s network. We have not participated in the spectrum auction for WiMax, given the high prices. The Department of Telecommunications, or DoT, has auctioned and allocated Broadband Wireless Access (“BWA”) spectrum to three operators per circle, which may limit the competition and competitive advantage for the consumer. Our inability to secure BWA at cost-effective prices may adversely affect our business and results of operations,, as our competitors with greater financial resources obtain spectrum for BWA services. We may be compelled to surrender the spectrum that was allotted to us earlier. The Government of India has asked us to surrender 2.3GHz range of spectrum allotted to us in 2003 and the same was auctioned as BWA spectrum. The Government also has asked the company to make payment for 3.3GHz spectrum from the date of allotment or to surrender the same. The other range of spectrum that we won, 5.7 GHz, is also close to capacity utilization and will need to be augmented in future. Enterprise connectivity will need licensed bands of spectrum for assured quality and security, so the non-availability of spectrum would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In the event of the surrender of the spectrum 2.3 GHz and 3.3 GHz, it may hamper our future plans for expansion of services may be adversely affected, and there are no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional replacement spectrum. We may lose our broadband services to retail segment to competitors, and we do not control the delivery of broadband services to the homes of our customers. Our broadband business depends upon Cable Television Operators (CTOs) for delivery of services. This has proved difficult, leaving large areas uncovered and open to the competition representing a significant opportunity loss. In future, as competitors launch WiMax services, they will have extensive connectivity and will be able to offer broadband services everywhere without constraints. This will severely curb our ability to compete and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The future of broadband services to home may revolve around WiMax wireless capability. Since WiMax capability is to be brought under the 3G spectrum in the near future, we may not be able to compete with our larger, well-financed competitors, and such competitors may gain market share and our customers may terminate their engagements with us. Our brand’s perception therefore, is directly impacted by an external party over whom we have little or no control in the matter of service delivery, and our customers may attribute usage problems to us rather than their CTOs. Our connectivity business may stagnate with a declining contribution. In the connectivity business, realization will be lower year on year based on the market conditions. Every year when annual contracts come up for review, customers contract for more bandwidth or more links at a lower overall unit price. This is offset somewhat by lower bandwidth costs, which we negotiate with our service providers. This impacts us in two ways: first, despite an increase in sales volume, we may not see a commensurate rise in revenues; and secondly, margins in our business are continually shrinking. Therefore, our revenue from our connectivity business may stagnate with declining bandwidth costs. We may not be able to retain and acquire customers for our data centers. In the field of Internet data center services, competition from data center operators may attract customers away from us or make it more difficult for us to attract new customers. If competitors are successful in the market, it could be difficult for us to retain and/or acquire customers. Furthermore, once customers cease using our services and choose another service provider, it may be difficult for us to reacquire them in future, or may require substantial costs to reacquire such customers, and we despite such customer acquisition spending, we may be unsuccessful in retaining such customers. In order to improve our competitiveness, we are developing data centers at NOIDA in UP, India and Raballe in Mumbai. If we are unable to attract adequate customers to these centers, we will not be able to achieve the revenues initially anticipated, which could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our datacenters may not be competitive enough in terms of green features. We may fail to convert our existing Datacenters and/or build new Datacenters under the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Commercial Interior (CI) programme of United States Green Building Council (USGBC). LEED certification is an internationally recognized programme and is considered one of the highest standards for energy efficient constructions. The datacenter uses several green features such as site ecology, water conservation, smart energy meters and equipments, reduction of CO2 emissions, high recycle content, effective waste management and eco-friendly interiors. Increased demand for green datacenter may hamper our marketing of our existing datacenters that are not LEED certified. We may lose relevance and revenues if we do not position our business models in line with current and future technology trends. Technology trends, such as cloud computing and software-as-a-service, allow new business models that could replace current lines of business unless we are aware of them and positioning ourselves to take advantage of the transition. The markets for our service are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and frequent introduction of new services. We may not successfully identify new opportunities, develop and bring new services to market in a timely manner. Unless we are able to adopt and deploy these advances in technology and infrastructure, we may lose our competitive position in the marketplace, which would adversely affect our revenues and may lead to increased customer attrition, as our customers switch to providers that utilize such information technology infrastructure. We may fail to augment our skills and capability to best manage our services over Internet Protocol and data networks. We have been able to build a reputation and maintain our lead because of our expertise and capability with the delivery and management of services over Internet Protocol and data networks. As the competition builds up their capability and experience, if we do not augment our skills and capabilities to keep our qualitative lead over them, we are at the risk of losing market share. Infrastructure such as networks are considered by customers as a commodity, and the only differential that we offer is our ability to manage and monitor services over them in a superior manner. It may not be possible for us to retain our brand equity if we do not resort to huge investments for brand development. Our competitors offering similar services are all large telecom companies who make substantial investments in building their brand image across their services. Conversely, we are focused on IT infrastructure services over data telecom networks and we believe that we enjoy the reputation of a specialist in these services. However, if we do not build up awareness as well as our brand and reputation over time, the sheer weight of investments in brand development by the larger telecommunication providers will dilute our brand recognitions and competitive advantages. 21 Table of Contents We may not meet the selection criteria set for high value contracts by the Governments. As we participate in bidding for large Government of India contracts, as well as business from large corporations, we increasingly come under scrutiny for the net assets value of our balance sheet as well as lack of profitability. Unless we increase capacity quickly and become profitable, we could be excluded from major government projects because we fail to meet their selection criteria, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business depends on our software development of our capability. As we offer our enterprise application services to an increasing base of large corporations, we run the risk of not being able to meet their needs for scaling and sophistication in future if we do not build the capacity to develop applications software to meet with future needs. We may not have adequate resources to develop our capability as a result of emerging sophistication required for such services. The failure to develop such resources may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may fail to offer end-to-end managed services to sustain our position. The telecommunications market is evolving towards service providers who offer end-to-end managed services that include managing everything down to desktops. If we are to continue to lead the market, we need to extend our library of services to ensure that our portfolio of services helps graduate the market to managed services where we can maintain leadership. It may be difficult for us to offer end-to-end managed services to sustain our leadership in managed services without significant capital expenditures which expenses would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. We may not get repeat corporate orders to optimize the capacity utilization. As we expand the network to small cities and towns, there is an operational cost involved in both the establishment and operation of these nodes. While the expansion is facilitated by a corporate order, we have to subsequently get additional business for capacity utilization in these nodes to make them profitable. If we are not able to do this rapidly by scaling up the business through these towns, we run the risk of overcapacity on the network in new areas, which results in a higher cost structure and lower margins. Absence of policy support will hamper Internet and Data Services. We have, and continue to be, subject to Indian regulations regarding the VPN license requirements, including the percentage of foreign holdings to offer VPN services as well the need for NLD/ILD licenses to offer VPN services and carrier voice services. The growth and development data and internet sector is dependent on a policy support of Department of Telecommunications Regulatory changes, as well the as continuing lack of policy initiatives to vitalize the data and Internet sector continue to be a risk. We cannot influence enabling policies that facilitate the growth and development of data and Internet connectivity in India. The absence of policy support for internet and data services may hamper the growth of such services in future, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Constant improvement of technology standards/ skills and evolving tools and applications are essential to sustain our position in remote management of IT infrastructure. We are relatively unknown outside India, and in comparison to other established IT players which have a large base of customers. If we are not able to constantly upgrade our technology standards and skills, and if we are unable to scale for critical mass in the near term, our competitive position would be adversely affected. Management of IT infrastructure is dependent on sophisticated tools and applications to remotely monitor the IT infrastructure and assets of customers. If we are unable to retain our competitive advantages in terms of the evolving tools & applications, or the maturity of our processes, we may lose customers and be at a competitive disadvantage compared with our larger competitors. 22 Table of Contents The continued recession in the United States affects sales of our e-Learning and IMS services. The continued economic recession and uncertainty in the United States may cause reduced demand for our eLearning products, as our customers may reduce their training budgets and programming. Additionally, we may not be able to acquire new customers due to the economic situation prevailing in United States. A prolonged period of reduced customer demand for our eLearning services may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Emergence of Enterprise Software Suites may hamper our growth in eLearning stream. The emergence of competitors such as Oracle, IBM, SAP, SumTotal and SABA offering enterprise software suites for eLearning for large organizations to develop their own learning programs could be a threat to our business in future. We may lose our business to our competitors, and if we are unable to acquire new customers or retain our existing customers, our revenues and results of operations may suffer. If we do not continue to develop and offer compelling content, products and services, our ability to attract new customers or maintain the engagement of our existing consumers could be adversely affected. In order to increase advertising revenues , we need to continue to increase the number of users of our sports, recipes and entertainment video contents through our websites. In order to attract consumers and generate increased engagement on our website portals, we believe we must offer compelling content, products and services. If we are not able to attract and keep new users in a constantly evolving user base, we are likely to lose page views, and advertisers may reduce or cease publishing advertisements in our websites. It is important for us to provide necessary contents through our websites to attract more users. However, acquiring, developing and offering new content, products and services, as well as new functionality, features and enhanced performance of our existing content, products and services, may require significant costs and time to develop. In addition, consumer tastes are difficult to predict and subject to rapid change. As a result of increased competition, it will be difficult for us to attract new users if we do not provide dynamic content to attract website visitors and attract new advertisers. If we are unable to increase our website views and advertising revenues, our results of operations will be affected. Even if we successfully develop and offer compelling content, products and services, we may not be able to attract new consumers and maintain or increase our existing customers’ use of our products and services. The expected growth for broadband services to retail segment may come down. As the economy slows down and the consumer confidence erodes, the demand for personal computers would drop significantly. We believe that a reduction in consumer confidence and the sale of consumer goods is likely to result in a drop in demand for broadband services until the cycle is reversed, as consumers delay or reduce their discretionary spending and personal computer usage. If this trend continues, reduced broadband usage may impact our revenue and result of operations. The market penetration rates of personal computers and online access in India are far lower than such rates in the United States. Alternate methods of obtaining access to the Internet, such as satellite internet and wireless internet are steadily becoming popular in metro centers and slowly replacing the wire line internet. There can be no assurance that the number or penetration rate of personal computers in India will increase rapidly. This may impact our ability to increase our revenue and may affect our results of operations. Our pricing for broadband services to retail segment may not be competitive. Service providers such as BSNL are frequently reducing rates so the Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is constantly coming down .We have to continually respond with promotions and value added services to compete with such service providers. If we are unable to compete on pricing terms with our competitors, we may lose customers and fail to attract new customers, which may adversely impact our revenue and results of operations. The high cost of accessing the Internet in India limits our pool of potential customers and restricts the amount of revenues that our Internet access services division might generate. The growth of our consumer services is limited by the cost to Indian consumers of obtaining the hardware, software and communications links necessary to connect to the Internet in India. If the costs required to access the Internet do not significantly decrease, most of India’s population will not be able to afford to use our services. Any long term absence of affordability to access internet at reasonable cost may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the acceptance and growth of electronic commerce in India, which is uncertain, and, to a large extent, beyond our control. Many of our existing and proposed services are designed to facilitate electronic commerce in India. The e-commerce in India is at a very early stage as compared to western world. The market potential for e-commerce is yet to be exploited. Demand and market acceptance for these services by businesses and consumers, therefore, are still remain uncertain. Many Indian businesses have deferred purchasing Internet access and deploying electronic commerce initiatives for the following reasons: • inconsistent quality of service; • the need to deal with multiple and frequently incompatible vendors; • inadequate legal infrastructure relating to electronic commerce in India; • a lack of security of commercial data, such as credit card numbers; and • very few Indian companies accepting credit card numbers over the Internet. If usage of the Internet in India does not increase substantially and the legal infrastructure and network infrastructure in India are not developed further, we may not realize any benefits from our investment in the development of electronic commerce services. Risks Related to the Internet Our business may not be compatible with delivery methods of Internet access services developed in the future. We face the risk that fundamental changes may occur in the delivery of Internet access services in India. Currently, Internet services are accessed primarily by computers and are delivered by modems using telephone lines. As the Internet is becoming accessible by cellular telephones, personal data assistants, television set-top boxes and other consumer electronic devices, and becomes deliverable through other means involving digital subscriber lines, coaxial cable or wireless transmission mediums, we will have to develop new technology or modify our existing technology to accommodate these developments. Our pursuit of these technological advances, whether directly through internal development or by third-party license, may require substantial time and expense. We may be unable to adapt our Internet service business to alternate delivery means and new technologies may not be available to us at all. We provide wireless connectivity on the 5.7 GHz spectrum allotted to us by the Wireless Planning Commission. The spectrum allocation may be inconsistent with industry standards. The current capacity may be insufficient to offer a breadth of services. The Government may issue instructions to release the spectrum that we hold. High cost of spectrum acquisition may be inconsistent with our revenue and cost models. We may not keep up with the pace of change that takes place in wireless technologies. The launch of DTH (Direct to Home) relay by service providers such as Tata Teleservices, Reliance, Dishnet and Sun TV may weaken the presence of Cable TV Operators (CTOs) in providing connectivity to homes through cables. Due to such competition, we may lose business from the CTOs for providing internet services through cables. We are subject to quality of service (QOS) guidelines issued by TRAI. Failure to comply with one or more guidelines may expose us into fines/penalties. TRAI has issued the following guidelines to the ISPs for improving the quality of service: • All Internet service providers shall provide adequate information to subscribers regarding Internet/broadband services being offered and marketed by them. • All Internet service providers shall provide information regarding contention ratios or the number of users competing for the same bandwidth, adopted by them to provide Internet/broadband service in their tariff plans submitted to TRAI, manual of practice, call centers and on their websites • All Internet service providers shall publish quarterly contention ratio for different Internet/broadband services on their website to facilitate subscribers to take informed decision. • All Internet service providers must use the contention ratios better than specified ratios for different services to ensure sufficient bandwidth for providing good quality of service to their subscribers. 24 Table of Contents Fixing up a contention ratio, may put standalone ISPs, like ours, at a disadvantage as cost of delivery of Internet bandwidth may increase. Telecom companies offering similar internet services are tempted to offer significantly lower prices and incentives as they own the last mile and at the same time by bundling telephony along with Internet enhance their otherwise idle last mile. Under such circumstances, it will be very difficult for us to compete with big Telcos which can offer broadband services by cross subsidizing with voice/other services. In the event of our failure to comply with one or more of the above guidelines, we may expose ourselves to fines/penalties. We may be liable to third parties for information retrieved from the Internet. We could become liable if confidential information is disclosed inappropriately on or through our websites. Others could also sue us for the content and services that are accessible from our websites through links to other websites or through content and materials that may be posted by our users in chat rooms or bulletin boards. The laws in India relating to the liability of companies which provide Internet services, like ours, for activities of their users, are still relatively unclear. Investigating and defending these claims is expensive, even if they do not result in liability Allegations of impropriety, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. 