Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If the risks we face, including those listed below, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively impacted, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, which may cause you to lose all or part of your investment. 36NEXT PAGE Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our substantial number of multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer and commercial business loans. Approximately 43.3% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005, consists of multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer and commercial business loans. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans accounted for approximately 9.9% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. Our commercial business and consumer loans accounted, respectively, for approximately 7.7% and 25.7% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. In addition, we plan to increase our emphasis on consumer, commercial real estate and commercial business lending. Because of our planned increased emphasis on and increased investment in consumer, commercial real estate and commercial business lending, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could decrease our net profits. For further information concerning the risks associated with multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer loans and commercial business loans, see "Lending Activities" and "Asset Quality" in Item I. We plan to increase residential and commercial construction and development lending activities, which will increase the risk in our loan portfolio. Our construction and development loan portfolio represented 2.7% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2005. Generally, we consider construction loans to involve a higher degree of risk than one- to four-family residential loans, because funds are advanced on the security of projects under construction and of uncertain value until completed. We intend to increase our residential and commercial construction lending, to the extent opportunities are available in our market area and meet our underwriting criteria. This increased emphasis on construction lending, particularly on commercial projects, may require us to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could decrease net profits. For further information concerning the risks associated with construction and development lending, see "Lending Activities - Construction and Development Lending" and "- Asset Quality" in Item 1. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest we receive on loans and investments that we make than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. For a further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and "Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk" in Item 7A. 37NEXT PAGE If economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers' ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates that cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. In addition, we have a significant amount of real estate loans. Accordingly, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of collateral securing our loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. In this regard, a substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in north and central eastern Indiana. These factors could expose us to an increased risk of loan defaults and losses and have an adverse impact on our earnings. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. The amount of common stock we control, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and state and federal statutory provisions could discourage hostile acquisitions of control. Our board of directors and executive officers beneficially own 17.6% of our common stock, and have additional stock options for 342,802 shares, which are exercisable within 60 days of March 3, 2006. In addition, our employee stock ownership plan controlled 9.6% of our common stock at that date. This inside ownership together with provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging attempts to acquire MutualFirst, pursue a proxy contest for control of MutualFirst, assume control of MutualFirst by a holder of a large block of common stock and remove Mutual First's management, all of which certain stockholders might think are in their best interests. These provisions include, among other things: (a) staggered terms of the members of the board of directors; (b) an 80% shareholder vote requirement for approval of any merger or consolidation of MutualFirst into any entity that directly or indirectly owns 5% or more of MutualFirst voting stock if the transaction is not approved in advance by at least a majority of the disinterested members of MutualFirst's board of directors; (c) supermajority shareholder vote requirements for the approval of certain amendments to MutualFirst's articles of incorporation and bylaws; (d) a prohibition on any holder of common stock voting more than 10% of the outstanding common stock; (e) elimination of cumulative 38NEXT PAGE voting by stockholders in the election of directors; (f) restrictions on the acquisition of our equity securities; and (g) the authorization of 5 million shares of preferred stock that may be issued with stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the Maryland business corporation law, which contains certain restrictions on an acquisition of control of MutualFirst. Furthermore, federal law requires regulatory approval of any acquisition of control of MutualFirst and imposes limits on the types of companies that can control us. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Mutual Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC. MutualFirst also is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. This regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 