D. Risk Factors,” that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Overview We are an online media company and MVAS provider in China and for the global Chinese communities. Advertising and MVAS are currently our major sources of revenues, and we derive the majority of these revenues from our operations in China. Our advertising business in China has been robust in recent years because of strong local economy, growth in Internet users and the shift of advertising budgets from traditional media to online media. Our advertising revenues in 2010 were boosted in part by the coverage of the World Cup, as well as continuing improvement of the business climate in China. For 2010, our MVAS revenues declined from the previous year, as a result of operator policy changes. Although mobile revenues stabilized in the last three quarters of 2010, our MVAS business will continue to be susceptible to the policy environment set by operators in China. In October 2009, prior to CRIC’s listing on the NASDAQ, we spun off SINA’s online real estate advertising business into our majority-owned subsidiary COHT and merged it with CRIC (the “Transaction”) to form an online and offline real estate information and consulting platform in China. As a result of the spin off, we stopped consolidating the financial results of COHT on October 1, 2009, and began to account for our interest in CRIC, which was 34% as of December 31, 2010, using the equity method of accounting. Income from equity investment in CRIC, which is recorded one quarter in arrears, totaled $13.1 million for 2010. We expect equity income from CRIC to make up a material portion of our future net income, the growth of which will depend in part on the ability of CRIC to grow its net income. In addition, the Company entered into certain license agreements with CRIC. The fair value of these license agreements were measured at $187.4 million and was recognized as deferred revenue and amortized on a straight line basis over the contract period of ten years. The amortized deferred revenue for 2010 and 2009 were $18.7 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Other factors affecting our future growth include: (1) our ability to increase awareness of our brand and continue to build user loyalty; (2) our ability to attract a larger audience to our network; and (3) our ability to attract new advertisers and increase the average spending of our existing advertisers. The performance of our advertising business also depends on our ability to react to risks and challenges, including: • our ability to compete with other Internet properties, including social networking services, other microblog sites, video sites, category-specific vertical sites, web browser and client, and achieve brand influence and market share; 49 Table of Contents • increased competition and potential downward pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on web page space; • the maintenance and enhancement of our brands in a cost effective manner; • development and retention of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; • expansion of our content portfolio, product offerings and network bandwidth in a cost-effective manner; • any change in government policy that would curtail or restrict our online advertising services; and • our ability to increase our advertising space at a sufficient rate. In order to support the development of our microblog Weibo and other initiatives, including expanding online video offerings, grow our online user base and user traffic, and attract new advertisers and partners, we expect to significantly increase our investments in product development and partnership expansion, expand the content and services on our network and procure more bandwidth and network equipment. We also expect to significantly increase our marketing efforts to drive greater brand awareness to our users, advertisers and partners. These investment increases may cause our gross margin and operating margin to significantly decline from 2010. Our MVAS business rebounded in 2009, resulting mainly from a relatively stable operating environment following years of abrupt changes in operator policies and government regulations. However, new operator policies were introduced in late 2009 and early 2010, resulting in a decline of our MVAS business in 2010. We believe policy changes from operators will continue to be a key risk for our MVAS business in the near future. Our ability to cope with sudden operator policy changes and stabilize our MVAS revenues are dependent on our ability to quickly react with new services or through new channels that meet the requirements of the new policies and are accepted by the market. The changing operator policies coupled with the fierce competition in the MVAS space have caused our MVAS business to experience declining gross margins in recent years. This trend may continue. However, we believe it is important for the Company to continue operation in MVAS business, because mobile Internet will be a significant opportunity for us, especially with the increasing adoption of 3G, smartphone handsets and tablets in China. Our relationships with mobile operators and other partners in the MVAS business as well as the expertise that we have gained on the mobile environment in China will be instrumental in developing SINA’s mobile Internet business. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our accumulated earnings were $571.4 million and $590.5 million, respectively. Our total cash, cash equivalent and short-term investments as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $882.8 million and $821.5 million, respectively. We have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily using the $97.5 million raised through the sale of preference shares, the $68.8 million raised from the sale of ordinary shares in the initial public offering, the $97.3 million raised from the sale of zero-coupon, convertible, subordinated notes in July 2003 and the $180.0 million raised from a private equity placement of our ordinary shares in November 2009, as well as cash generated from operations and the exercise of stock options. We repurchased approximately 2.5 million SINA ordinary shares in the open market for total consideration of $50 million during the first quarter of 2009. We intend to continue our investment in the development and enhancement of our products, content and services, as well as investment in sales and marketing. If we are unable to generate sufficient net income from our operations in the future, we may have to finance our operations from the current funds available or seek equity or debt financing. Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgment areas, including those related to revenues, customer programs and incentives, bad debts, equity investments, intangible assets and goodwill, stock-based compensation, income taxes, advertising expenses, estimated useful lives of assets, foreign currency, contingencies and litigation. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from such estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For further information on our critical accounting policies, see the discussion in the section titled “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” below and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: 50 Table of Contents Allowance for doubtful accounts The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts which reflects its best estimate of amounts that potentially will not be collected. The Company determines the allowance for doubtful accounts based on factors such as historical experience, credit-worthiness and age of receivable balances. If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate and result in an impairment of their ability to make payments, or if the operators decide not to pay the Company, additional allowances may be required which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Allowances for doubtful accounts charged to income were $1.2 million, $5.3 million and $3.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally from three to five years. Judgment is required to determine the estimated useful lives of assets, especially for computer equipment, including determining how long existing equipment can function and when new technologies will be introduced at cost-effective price points to replace existing equipment. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis, or more frequently, if facts and circumstances warrant a review. We make judgments about goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill may exist. The timing of an impairment test may result in charges to our Consolidated Statements of Operations in the current reporting period that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. Application of a goodwill impairment test requires judgment including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to the reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units and estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value of each reporting unit which could trigger impairment. More conservative assumptions of the anticipated future benefits from these reporting units could result in impairment charges, which would decrease net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheet. Conversely, less conservative assumptions could result in smaller or no impairment charges, higher net income and higher asset values. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on goodwill. Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of any impairment loss for long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets that management expects to hold or use is based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Equity investments Equity investments are comprised of investments in publicly-traded companies and privately-held companies. We account for our common stock equivalent equity investments in entities over which we have significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or otherwise control using the equity method. For equity investments over which we do not have significant influence, the cost method of accounting is used. For equity investments in shares that are not common stock or in-substance common stock and that do not have readily determinable fair value, the cost method accounting is used. The Company accounts for its investment in CRIC using the equity method of accounting. Following the acquisition date, we record our share of the results of CRIC one quarter in arrears within earnings in equity interests. We assess our equity investments for other-than-temporary impairment by considering factors including, but not limited to, stock prices of public companies in which we have an equity investment, current economic and market conditions, operating performance of the companies, including current earnings trends and undiscounted cash flows, and other company-specific information, such as recent financing rounds. The fair value determination, particularly for investments in privately-held companies, requires significant judgment to determine appropriate estimates and assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could affect the calculation of the fair value of the investments and the determination of whether an identified impairment is other-than-temporary. If an impairment is considered other-than-temporary, the Company will write down the asset to its fair value and take the corresponding charge to the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 51 Table of Contents Our marketable securities are held as available for sale and are reported at fair value. The treatment of a decline in the fair value of an individual security is based on whether the decline is other-than-temporary. Significant judgment is required to assess whether the impairment is other-than-temporary. Our judgment of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on an assessment of factors including our ability and intent to hold the individual security, severity of the impairment, expected duration of the impairment and forecasted recovery of fair value. Changes in the estimates and assumptions could affect our judgment of whether an identified impairment should be recorded as an unrealized loss in the equity section of our consolidated balance sheets or as a realized loss in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenue recognition Advertising Our advertising revenues are derived principally from online advertising and, to a lesser extent, sponsorship arrangements. Online advertising arrangements allow advertisers to place advertisements on particular areas of our websites, in particular formats and over particular periods of time. Sponsorship arrangements allow advertisers to sponsor a particular area on our websites in exchange for a fixed payment over the contract period. While the majority of our revenue transactions contain standard business terms and conditions, there are certain transactions that contain non-standard business terms and conditions. In addition, we have certain sales transactions that involve multiple element arrangements (arrangements with more than one deliverable) that may include placement on specific properties. As a result, significant contract interpretation is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for these transactions including: (1) how the consideration of an arrangement should be allocated among potential multiple elements; (2) when to recognize revenue on the deliverables; and (3) whether all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. Changes in judgments on these assumptions and estimates could materially impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition. MVAS We mainly rely on third-party operators for billing, collection and transmission of our MVAS to our users. We also rely on other service providers to provide content and to distribute MVAS or other services for us. Revenues are recorded on a gross basis when most of the gross indicators are met, such as we are considered the primary obligor in the arrangement, design and develop (in some cases with the assistance of third-parties) the MVAS, have reasonable latitude to establish price, have discretion in selecting the operators to offer our MVAS, provide customer services related to the MVAS and take on the credit risks associated with the transmission fees. Conversely, revenues are recorded on a net basis when most of the gross indicators are not met. The determination of whether we are the primary obligor for a particular type of service is subjective in nature and is based on an evaluation of the terms of the arrangement. If the terms of the arrangement with operators were to change and cause the gross indicators not being met, we would have to record our MVAS revenues on a net basis. In 2010, approximately 96% of our MVAS revenues were recorded on a gross basis. Consequently, recording MVAS revenues on a net basis would cause a significant decline in our total net revenues, but should not have a significant impact on our gross profit. Due to the time lag between when the services are rendered and when the operator billing statements are received, MVAS revenues are estimated based on our internal records of billings and transmissions for the month, adjusting for prior periods’ confirmation rates with operators and prior periods’ discrepancies between internally estimated revenues and actual revenues confirmed by operators. The confirmation rate applied to the estimation of revenue is determined at the lower of the latest confirmation rate available and the average of six months of historical rates if such historical average is available. If we have not yet received confirmation rates for six months, revenues would be deferred until billing statements are received from the operators. If subsequent billing statements from the operators differ significantly from management’s estimates, our revenues could be materially impacted. In the past, one of the operators has requested resettlement of billings that were settled in prior periods and on which payments have been received. We have accrued for such credits to revenue based on a historical rolling average and the true-ups between accrued amounts and actual credit memos issued have not been material. If operators request for a resettlement of billings for previous periods at an amount significantly higher than historical average, our revenues could be materially impacted. Changes in judgments on assumptions and estimates stated above for MVAS revenues could materially impact the timing and/or amount of revenue recognition. 52 Table of Contents In addition to the above, our revenue recognition policy requires an assessment as to whether collection is reasonably assured, which requires us to evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. Advertising expense Advertising expenses consist primarily of costs for promotion of corporate image, product marketing and direct marketing. We expense all advertising costs as incurred and classify these costs under sales and marketing expense. The nature of our direct marketing activities is such that they are intended to acquire subscribers for subscription-based and usage-based MVAS. We expense all such direct marketing expenses. Stock-based compensation Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the estimated fair value of the award and is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the estimated fair value of share options. The determination of the estimated fair value of stock-based compensation awards on the grant date using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables, including our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee share option exercise behaviors, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. Shares of our subsidiaries, which do not have quoted market prices, were valued based on the income approach, if a revenue model had been established, or the market approach, the results of which were considered with that of other approaches, including the replacement cost method, to assess reasonableness. Determination of estimated fair value of our subsidiaries required complex and subjective judgments due to their limited financial and operating history, unique business risks and limited public information on companies in China similar to ours. If different assumptions were used for estimating stock-based compensation expense or if a different valuation method was used, the change in our stock-based compensation expense could materially affect our gross profit, operating income, net income attributable to SINA and net income per share attributable to SINA. Furthermore, we are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and record stock-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. If actual forfeitures differ materially from our estimated forfeitures, we may need to revise those estimates used in subsequent periods. See Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding stock-based compensation. Income taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management is required to make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against a deferred tax asset. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the income taxes recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates related to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income, such as income from operations. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates and, thus, materially impact our financial position and results of operations. In order to assess uncertain tax positions, the Company applies a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for the tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. Under the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. In accordance with accounting guidance, undistributed earnings of a subsidiary are presumed to be transferred to the parent company and are subject to withholding taxes, unless the parent company has evidence of specific plans for reinvestment of undistributed earnings of a subsidiary that demonstrate that remittance of the earnings will be postponed indefinitely. The current policy adopted by the Company’s Board of Directors allows the Company to distribute PRC earnings offshore only if the Company does not have to pay a dividend tax. Based on the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, such policy would require the Company to indefinitely reinvest all earnings made in China since 2008 onshore or be subject up to 10% in withholding tax should it decides to distribute earnings accumulated since 2008 offshore. 53 Table of Contents Foreign currency Our reporting currency and functional currency are the U.S. dollar and our subsidiaries and VIEs in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan use their respective local currencies as their functional currencies. An entity’s functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Management must use judgment in determining an entity’s functional currency, assessing economic factors including cash flow, sales price, sales market, expense, financing and inter-company transactions and arrangements. Impact from exchange rate changes related to transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency is recorded as a gain and loss in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, while impact from exchange rate changes related to translating a foreign entity’s financial statements from its functional currency to our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, is disclosed and accumulated in a separate component under the equity section of our consolidated balance sheets. Translation gains or losses are not released to net income unless the associated net investment has been sold, liquidated or substantially liquidated. Management uses judgment in determining the timing of recognition of translation gains or losses. Such determination requires assessing whether translation gains or losses were derived from the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of an investment in a foreign entity. Different judgments or assumptions resulting in a change of functional currency or timing of recognition of foreign exchange gains or losses may materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Nonmonetary transactions We account for nonmonetary transactions based on ASC 845-10 “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets,” which requires the assets exchanged to be based on fair value unless one of the three conditions is met: (1) the fair value of the asset relinquished or received cannot be determined (within reasonable limits), (2) there is an exchange of inventory for inventory that will be sold in the same line of business to facilitate sales to customers, or (3) the transaction lacks commercial substance. The determination of fair value requires significant judgment in estimates and assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the calculation of the fair value. Disposal of a business We account for the disposal of a business by recognizing a gain or loss measured as the difference between the aggregate of (1) the fair value of any consideration received, (2) the fair value of any retained noncontrolling investment in the former business at the date the business is deconsolidated and (3) the carrying amount of any noncontrolling interest in the former business (including any accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest) at the date the business is deconsolidated; and (4) the carrying amount of the former business’s assets and liabilities. The determination of fair value requires significant judgment in estimates and assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the calculation of the fair value. Recent accounting pronouncements In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (the “FASB”) issued new guidance on revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables and certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. By providing another alternative for determining the selling price of deliverables, the guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables will allow companies to allocate arrangement consideration in multiple deliverable arrangements in a manner that better reflects the transaction’s economics and will often result in earlier revenue recognition. The new guidance modifies the fair value requirements of previous guidance by allowing “best estimate of selling price” in addition to vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) and other vendor objective evidence (“VOE”, now referred to as “TPE” standing for third-party evidence) for determining the selling price of a deliverable. A vendor is now required to use its best estimate of the selling price when VSOE or TPE of the selling price cannot be determined. In addition, the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration is no longer permitted under the new guidance. The new guidance for certain revenue arrangements that include software elements removes non-software components of tangible products and certain software components of tangible products from the scope of existing software revenue guidance, resulting in the recognition of revenue similar to that for other tangible products. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect adoption of this new guidance will have material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued revised guidance on “When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts.” The revised guidance specifies that an entity with reporting units that have carrying amounts that are zero or negative is required to assess whether it is more likely than not that the reporting units’ goodwill is impaired. If the entity determines that it is more likely than not that the goodwill of one or more of its reporting units is impaired, the entity should perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test for those reporting unit(s). Any resulting goodwill 54 Table of Contents impairment should be recorded as a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period adoption. Any goodwill impairments occurring after the initial adoption of the revised guidance should be included in earnings as required by Section 350-20-35. The revised guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. We do not expect adoption of this new guidance will have material impact on the consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued revised guidance on the “Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations.” The revised guidance specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The revised guidance also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The revised guidance is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. We do not expect adoption of this new guidance will have material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 55 Table of Contents A. Operating Results Net revenues Year Ended December 31, % of Change YOY YOY 2010 2009 2008 10 & 09 09 & 08 (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenues Advertising $ 290,814 72 % $ 227,895 64 % $ 258,499 70 % 28 % (12 )% Non-advertising: MVAS 86,183 22 % 119,341 33 % 103,318 28 % (28 )% 16 % Others 25,620 6 % 11,331 3 % 7,770 2 % 126 % 46 % 111,803 28 % 130,672 36 % 111,088 30 % (14 )% 18 % $ 402,617 100 % $ 358,567 100 % $ 369,587 100 % 12 % (3 )% Total net revenues increased 12% year-over-year in 2010 and decreased 3% year-over-year in 2009. The increase from 2009 to 2010 represented an increase in advertising revenues partially offset by a decrease in non-advertising revenues. The decrease from 2008 to 2009 was mainly due to the year-over-year decrease in advertising partially offset by an increase in non-advertising revenues. Advertising revenues as a percentage of total net revenues increased to 72% in 2010 from 64% in 2009 and 70% in 2008, while MVAS revenues decreased to 22% in 2010 from 33% in 2009 and 28% in 2008. Advertising. Advertising revenues increased 28% year-over-year in 2010. This growth was primarily due to successful coverage of the 2010 World Cup as well as the continuing improvement of the business climate in China. Substantially all of our advertising revenues are generated from China. Our top ten customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 19%, 16% and 17% of our advertising revenues in the PRC in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Automobile, fast-moving consumer goods, financial, telecommunication, information technology and internet services were our top advertising sectors in 2010, accounting for approximately 85% of total advertising revenues. We spun off our online real estate advertising business and merged it with CRIC in October 2009. Subsequent to the spin off, we stopped consolidating real estate advertising revenues. Real estate advertising revenues constituted approximately 12% of our total advertising revenues for 2009. Non-advertising. Non-advertising revenues consist of MVAS and, to a lesser extent, amortized deferred revenues and fee-based revenues. MVAS Year Ended December 31, % of Change YOY YOY 2010 2009 2008 10 & 09 09 & 08 (In thousands, except percentages) 2.0G products $ 64,852 75 % $ 84,432 71 % $ 64,005 62 % (23 )% 32 % 2.5G products 21,331 25 % 34,909 29 % 39,313 38 % (39 )% (11 )% $ 86,183 100 % $ 119,341 100 % $ 103,318 100 % (28 )% 16 % MVAS revenues decreased 28% year-over-year in 2010 and increased 16% year-over-year in 2009. The year-over year decline in MVAS revenues in 2010 primarily resulted from China Mobile implementing a series of policy changes, including the suspension of WAP billing, limiting the service offerings and partnerships allowed for each SMS service code, preventing television and radio promotion of certain IVR products and requiring additional notices and customer confirmations in the MVAS ordering process in late 2009 and early 2010. The year-over-year increase in MVAS revenues in 2009 was mainly due to relatively more stable operator policies, government regulations and business environment. Revenues from 2.0G products, including SMS, IVR and CRBT, decreased 23% year-over-year in 2010 after increasing 32% year-over-year in 2009. Revenues from SMS accounted for 46%, 45% and 33% of MVAS revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues from IVR were 25%, 23% and 25% of MVAS revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues 56 Table of Contents from SMS and IVR revenues declined 27% and 19%, respectively, in 2010 as a result of China Mobile implementing a series of policy changes. For 2009, revenues from SMS and IVR grew 60% and 2% year-over-year, respectively. The year-over-year change in product mix between SMS and IVR in 2009 mostly reflected the allocation of promotional activities to maximize the return on our marketing efforts. Revenues from 2.5G products decreased 39% and 11% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues from KJAVA accounted for 19%, 12% and 10% of MVAS revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. KJAVA revenues grew 10% year over year in 2010 mainly due to increased game offerings and sales promotion. Revenues from MMS accounted for 6%, 8% and 17% of MVAS revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. MMS revenues declined 48% in 2010, resulting from operator policy changes and decreased marketing effort. Revenues from WAP accounted for less than 1%, 9% and 11% of MVAS revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. WAP revenues dropped 98% in 2010, as a result of China Mobile suspending billing to WAP customers. In the past, operators have made significant changes to their policies on MVAS in accordance with policy derivatives from MII. The policy changes by the operators have significantly reduced our ability to acquire new MVAS subscribers and increased the churn rate of our existing monthly MVAS subscribers. In addition, our MVAS business has been impacted by other regulatory bodies in China, such as SARFT. The key policy changes made by operators in recent years include the following: • In December 2010, under policy derivatives from MII, China Mobile began requiring a subscription reminder to be sent for monthly MVAS subscriptions after receiving double confirmation of the subscription. Subscribers can cancel MVAS subscriptions by replying to the reminder notice. Such reminder notice has reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers. • In January 2010, China Mobile implemented a series of measures, including limiting the service offerings and partnerships allowed for each SMS service code, preventing the television and radio promotion of certain interactive IVR products and requiring additional notices and customer confirmations in the MVAS ordering process. As indicated above, SMS, IVR and MMS revenues have been significantly impacted by such measures. • In November 2009, China Mobile suspended billing to customers for WAP services. China Mobile has not yet indicated whether WAP billing will resume. Mobile operators, such as China Mobile and China Unicom, and governmental bodies, such as MII and SARFT, may announce additional measures or regulations in the future, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are in the process of developing and promoting new products that we believe are not subject to recent policy and regulations changes made by operators and governmental bodies. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to develop any such new products, that any such products will achieve market acceptance or that such products will not be affected by future changes in rules and regulations. Other non-advertising revenues Other non-advertising revenues include amortized deferred revenues and fee-based services, such as paid email services and causal games. In conjunction with the sale of our online real estate business to CRIC in October 2009, we signed certain license agreements with CRIC. The fair value of these license agreements were measured at $187.4 million, which was recognized as deferred revenue and amortized on a straight-line basis over the contract period of ten years. Amortized deferred revenues were $18.7 million and $4.7 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Costs of revenues Year Ended December 31, % of Change 2010 2009 2008 YOY 10 & 09 YOY 09 & 08 (In thousands, except percentages) Costs of revenues: Advertising $ 116,295 $ 99,835 $ 100,008 16 % * Non-advertising: MVAS 49,612 56,851 48,005 (13 )% 18 % Others 2,503 1,606 2,322 56 % (31 )% 52,115 58,457 50,327 (11 )% 16 % $ 168,410 $ 158,292 $ 150,335 6 % 5 % * Less than 1% Costs of revenues increased 6% and 5% year-over-year in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Costs of advertising revenues increased 16% in 2010, while the costs of MVAS revenues declined 13%. The changes in costs are generally consistent with the revenue 57 Table of Contents changes in the two categories. Costs of advertising revenues for 2009 were flat from the prior year, as we implemented cost control in light of the decline in advertising revenues. Costs of MVAS revenues for 2009 increased 18%, reflecting the increase in MVAS revenues and increasing competitive landscape. Advertising. Costs of advertising revenues consist primarily of expenses associated with the production of our websites, including fees paid to third parties for Internet connection, content and services, payroll-related costs, stock-based compensation and equipment depreciation expense. Costs of advertising revenues also include the business taxes on advertising sales in the PRC. Business taxes, net of business tax refund received, surcharges and cultural business construction fees, levied on advertising sales in China, in aggregate equalized approximately 8.5% of our advertising revenues generated in China. Costs of advertising revenues increased 16% year-over-year in 2010. The increase in costs of advertising revenues in 2010 was due to an increase in content fees of $7.9 million, business taxes of $4.9 million, direct labor cost of $3.3 million and third-party advertisement production cost of $2.4 million. These increases were partially offset by a $2.4 million reduction in stock-based compensation. Content fees increased in 2010 mainly resulting from the purchase of 2010 World Cup coverage and NBA content. Business taxes and advertisement production costs increased as a function of higher revenues. The higher direct labor cost was due to headcount and salary increases. Costs of advertising revenues was basically flat from 2008 to 2009, Internet connection costs increased $4.2 million in 2009, stock-based compensation increased $2.2 million ($0.5 million of the increase related to a private equity placement of SINA shares to New-Wave Investment Holding Company Limited (“New-Wave”), third-party production costs increased $1.6 million and direct labor costs increased $0.6 million, offset by a $5.2 million reduction in content fees (mostly related to 2008 Beijing Olympics content) and a $3.5 million decrease in business taxes, attributable to lower advertising revenues. Non-advertising. Costs of non-advertising revenues mainly consist of the fees paid to mobile operators for billing, transmissions and collection of MVAS revenues, fees or royalties paid to MVAS content and service providers and business taxes and surcharges levied in the PRC, which are approximately 3.3% for mobile-related revenues and 5.5% for other non-advertising revenues. Costs of MVAS revenues decreased 13% year-over-year in 2010 and increased 18% in 2009. The decrease in costs of MVAS revenues in 2010 was due to $6.3 million less fees paid to content and service providers, as a result of a decline in MVAS revenues. Compared to 2008, fees paid to content and service providers in 2009 increased $5.3 million while fees paid to operators increased $3.2 million. The increase in fees paid to content and service providers as well as operators reflects the increase in MVAS revenues and increasing competitive landscape. Costs of other non-advertising revenues also include costs for providing fee-based services. Gross margins Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Gross margins: Advertising 60 % 56 % 61 % Non-advertising: 53 % 55 % 55 % MVAS 42 % 52 % 54 % Others 90 % 86 % 70 % Overall 58 % 56 % 59 % Overall gross margin improved two percentage points in 2010 and declined three percentage points in 2009. Advertising. The improvement in advertising gross margin in 2010 was due to the increase in revenues without a proportional increase in costs. In addition, stock-based compensation declined in 2010. The decline in advertising gross margin in 2009 was mainly due to the decrease in advertising revenues without a proportionate decrease in costs. Stock-based compensation for 2010, 2009 and 2008 accounted for approximately 1%, 2% and 1% of our advertising revenues, respectively. We expect to increase our investment in absolute dollars in web content, especially in video, Internet connection and production costs to stay competitive in the market, which may cause our advertising gross margin to decline. Non-advertising. The majority of the costs associated with non-advertising revenues are variable costs. Gross margin for non-advertising revenues for 2010 was 53%, a decline of two percentage points from 2009 and 2008. Gross margin for MVAS for 2010 was 42%, a decline of ten percentage points from 2009. Gross margin for MVAS from 2008 to 2009 declined two percentage points. These year-over-year declines were mainly driven the increases in fees paid to mobile operators and third-party 58 Table of Contents content and service providers, as well as the decrease in WAP revenue, which were recognized on a net basis after deducting the fee paid to mobile operators. Operating expenses Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 % of Change % of Net % of Net % of Net YOY YOY Revenues Revenues Revenues 10 & 09 09 & 08 (In thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 77,996 19 % $ 85,133 24 % $ 79,784 22 % (8 )% 7 % Product development 34,048 8 % 33,777 9 % 30,371 8 % 1 % 11 % General and administrative 22,585 6 % 40,025 11 % 33,179 9 % (44) % 21 % Amortization of intangible assets 3,335 1 % 4,138 1 % 1,337 * (19 )% 209 % $ 137,964 34 % $ 163,073 45 % $ 144,671 39 % (15) % 13 % * Less than 1% Operating expenses decreased 15% year-over-year in 2010 and increased 13% in 2009. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of payroll, commissions and other employee-related expenses, advertising and promotional expenditures and business travel expenses. Sales and marketing as a percentage of net revenues was 19% in 2010, compared to 24% in 2009 and 22% in 2008. The decline in sales and marketing expenses from 2009 to 2010 both as a percentage of net revenues and in absolute dollars was primarily due to lower stock-based compensation costs and lower marketing expenditures overall. Compared to 2009, stock-based compensation decreased $3.6 million. The higher stock-based compensation in 2009 included 1.5 million in expenses related to the private equity financed shares issued to management and costs related to the accelerated vesting of certain restricted share units granted to key managers and employees. Compared to 2009, MVAS’s marketing expenses declined $3.5 million due to operator policy changes and marketing expenditure for the online real estate advertising business falling $1.3 million to zero in 2010 after the real estate advertising business spin off. Compared to 2008, stock-based compensation increased $3.9 million and payroll-related expenses increased $2.1 million, while corporate branding spending and MVAS promotions decreased $0.6 million in 2009. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the near future. Product development. Product development expenses consist primarily of payroll-related expenses incurred for the enhancements to and maintenance of our websites as well as costs associated with new product development and enhancements for products such as microblog, blog and video podcasting. Compared to 2009, stock-based compensation decreased $2.3 million, partially offset by an increase in payroll-related expenses of $2.2 million. Similar to sales and marketing, the higher stock-based compensation in product development expenses for 2009 was related to the private equity financed shares ($0.8 million) and accelerated vesting of certain employee restricted share units. The higher payroll-related expenses resulted from new hires as well as pay raises. Compared to 2008, payroll-related expenses increased $1.7 million and stock-based compensation increased $2.1 million in 2009. We expect product development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars in the near future. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of payroll-related costs, stock-based compensation, professional service fees and provisions for doubtful accounts. Our general and administrative expenses also include expenses relating to the transfer of the economic benefits generated from our VIEs in the PRC to our subsidiaries. Compared to 2009, stock-based compensation decreased $11.6 million and bad debt expense decreased $4.0 million. Similar to sales and marketing, the higher stock-based compensation in 2009 was related to the private equity financed shares ($7.9 million impact) and accelerated vesting of certain employee restricted share units. The lower bad debt expense was due to better collections, resulting in a lower bad debt rate and reversal in bad debt allowance arising from the receipt of payments previously written off. Compared to 2008, stock-based compensation increased $10.9 million, provision for allowance for doubtful accounts increased $1.8 million and payroll-related expenses increased $0.6 million in 2009. These were partially offset by the reduction in expenses relating to the transfer of the economic benefits generated from our VIEs in the PRC to our subsidiaries of $5.8 million and professional fees of $1.6 million. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the near future. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortizable intangible assets include purchased technology, database and software. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we launched a new UC Instant Messaging platform that was completely organically developed to replace the previously acquired platform. The use of the previously acquired technology UC Instant Messaging platform was discontinued as of March 31, 2010. As such, we charged $2.4 million in amortization expenses in the fourth quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter of 2010. Our real estate related database was disposed as a result of the sale of our online real estate business to CRIC. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on intangible assets, including estimates of amortization expenses for future periods. 59 Table of Contents Interest and other income, net Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Interest income $ 7,394 $ 8,379 $ 15,371 Other income 1,410 (8 ) 2,899 $ 8,804 $ 8,371 $ 18,270 Compared to 2009, our cash was placed in more liquid bank deposits, which had lower interest yields. Compared to 2008, interest income decreased in 2009 as a result of a significant drop in interest rates despite higher balances of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Other income consists primarily of net currency transaction gain or loss. We recorded a net currency transaction gain (loss) of $1.3 million, ($0.1 million) and $3.3 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net currency transaction gains were mainly a result of the Chinese RMB appreciating against the U.S. dollar. Earnings from equity investments, net In October 2009, we spun off our online real estate advertising business and merged it with CRIC. Beginning on October 1, 2009, we stopped consolidating the financial results of COHT and instead account for our interest in CRIC using the equity method of accounting. Our earnings from equity investment in CRIC, which is reported one quarter in arrears was $13.1 million for 2010. Gain on sale of business and impairment in equity investment The following summarizes other non-operating income items: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands, except percentages) CRIC $ (128,554 ) $ — $ — COHT — 376,564 3,137 Others — (1,509 ) (779 ) $ (128,554 ) $ 375,055 $ 2,358 % of total net revenues (32 )% 105 % * * Less than 1% In April 2008, we sold a 34% interest of our restructured online real estate advertising business COHT to E-House and recorded a gain of $3.1 million from the step up of our sold interests to fair value. Subsequently, in October 2009, we spun off COHT to merge it with CRIC and exchange it for an approximately 33% interest in CRIC. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a one-time gain of $376.6 million from this transaction. Our interest in the equity of CRIC was valued at $572.0 million based on its initial public offering price of $12.0 per American Depository Share. In 2010, based on an other-than-temporary impairment assessment, we recorded a $128.6 million charge to write down our equity investment in CRIC to its fair value. We determined the fair value of our investment in CRIC as of December 31, 2010, based on a closing stock price of $9.60. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Income tax expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands, except percentages) Current income tax provision $ 9,142 $ 7,093 $ 14,098 Deferred income tax (706 ) 1,230 (56 ) Total $ 8,436 $ 8,323 $ 14,042 Income from China operations $ 108,151 $ 81,890 $ 108,147 Effective tax rate for China operations 8 % 10 % 13 % Based on our current operating structure and preferential tax treatments available to us in China, the effective income tax rate for our China operations in 2010 was 8%, compared to 10% in 2009 and 13% in 2008. The lower effective tax rate for our PRC operations in 2010 as compared to 2009 was primarily due to additional tax holidays received from a newly established subsidiary 60 Table of Contents in Shanghai. The lower effective tax rate of our PRC operations for 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower provision of repatriation tax for earnings in VIEs and an additional tax holiday obtained by one of our subsidiaries. Prior to January 1, 2008, our subsidiaries and VIEs were governed by the Previous IT Law. Under the Previous IT Law, our subsidiaries and VIEs were generally subject to enterprise income taxes at a statutory rate of 33% (30% state income tax plus 3% local income tax) or 15% for qualified high and new technology enterprises. In addition to a preferential statutory rate, some of our high and new technology subsidiaries were entitled to special tax holidays of three-year tax exemption followed by three years at a 50% reduction in the tax rate, commencing the first operating year. Effective January 1, 2008, the EIT Law in China supersedes the Previous IT Law and unifies the income tax rate for domestic enterprises and FIEs at 25%. The EIT Law provides a five-year transitional period for certain entities that enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% and/or a preferential tax holiday under the Previous IT Law and were established before March 16, 2007, to gradually increase their rates to 25%. In addition, high and new technology enterprises continue to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%. The EIT Law also provides grandfather treatment for high and new technology enterprises that received special tax holidays under the Previous IT Law to continue to enjoy their tax holidays until expiration provided that specific conditions are met. As of December 2010, three of our subsidiaries were qualified as high and new technology enterprises under the new EIT Law. The EIT Law also provides that an enterprise established under the laws of a foreign country or region but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes and consequently be subject to the PRC income tax at the rate of 25% for its global income. The Implementing Rules of the EIT Law merely defines the location of the “de facto management body” as “the place where the exercising, in substance, of the overall management and control of the production and business operation, personnel, accounting, properties, etc., of a non-PRC company is located.” Based on a review of surrounding facts and circumstances, we do not believe that it is likely that our operation outside of the PRC should be considered a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. However, due to limited guidance and implementation history of the EIT Law, should we be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on worldwide income at a uniform tax rate of 25% retroactive to January 1, 2008. The EIT Law also imposes a withholding income tax of 10% on dividends distributed by an FIE to its immediate holding company outside of China, if such immediate holding company is considered as a non-resident enterprise without any establishment or place within China or if the received dividends have no connection with the establishment or place of such immediate holding company within China, unless such immediate holding company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Such withholding income tax was exempted under the Previous IT Law. The Cayman Islands, where the Company incorporated, does not have such tax treaty with China. According to the arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion in August 2006, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the FIE). The State Administration of Taxation further promulgated a circular, or Circular 601, on October 27, 2009, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and that a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant the tax treaty benefits. A majority of our FIEs’ operations in China are invested and held by Hong Kong registered entities. If we are regarded as a non-resident enterprise and our Hong Kong subsidiaries are regarded as resident enterprises, then our Hong Kong subsidiaries may be required to pay a 10% withholding tax on any dividends payable to us. If our Hong Kong entities are regarded as non-resident enterprises, then our PRC subsidiaries may be required to pay a 5% withholding tax for any dividends payable to our Hong Kong subsidiaries, however, it is still unclear at this stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to our Hong Kong subsidiaries and if our Hong Kong subsidiaries were not considered as “beneficial owners” of any dividends from their PRC subsidiaries, the dividends payable to our Hong Kong subsidiaries would be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. In accordance with accounting guidance, all undistributed earnings are presumed to be transferred to the parent company and are subject to the withholding taxes. Based on the subsequently issued interpretation of the new EIT, Article 4 of Cai Shui (2008) Circular No. 1, dividends on earnings prior to 2008 but distributed after 2008 are not subject to withholding income tax. The current policy approved by our Board allows us to distribute PRC earnings offshore only if we do not have to pay a dividend tax. Such policy may require us to reinvest all earnings made since 2008 onshore indefinitely or be subject to a significant withholding tax should our policy change to allow for earnings distribution offshore. As of December 31, 2010, the Company did not record any withholding tax on the retained earnings of its FIEs in the PRC as the Company intends to reinvest its earnings to further expand its business in China, and its FIEs do not intend to declare dividends on the retained earnings made since 2008 to their immediate foreign holding companies. The Company’s VIEs are wholly owned by the Company’s employees and controlled by the Company through various contractual agreements. To the extent that these VIEs have undistributed earnings, the Company will accrue appropriate expected tax associated with repatriation of such undistributed earnings. In December 2009, the State Administration of Tax in China issued a circular on strengthening the management of proceeds from equity transfers by non-China tax resident enterprises and requires foreign entities to report indirect sales of China tax resident enterprises. If the existence of the overseas intermediary holding company is disregarded due to lack of reasonable business purpose or substance, gains on such sale are subject to PRC withholding tax. The Company believes that there was reasonable business purpose for the merger of COHT with CRIC, which was to realize the business synergy created by the merger to form a real estate information services platform both online and offline with diversified revenue streams, serving both real estate businesses and consumers. The simultaneous initial public offering allowed the combined company to raise additional capital to fund its future growth. Due to limited guidance and implementation history of the circular, significant judgment is 61 Table of Contents required in the determination of a reasonable business purpose for an equity transfer by our non-China tax resident entity by considering factors, including but not limited to, the form and substance of the arrangement, time of establishment of the foreign entity, relationship between each step of the arrangement, relationship between each component of the arrangement, implementation of the arrangement and the changes in the financial position of all parties involved in the transaction. Although the Company believes that it is more likely than not the said transaction would be determined as one with a reasonable business purpose, should this not be the case, the Company would be subject to a significant withholding tax that could materially and adversely impact its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For further information on our tax structures and inherent risks see “If tax benefits available to us in China are reduced or repealed, our results of operations could suffer significantly and your investment in our shares may be adversely affected.” under Risk Factors in Part I Item 3.D. See also Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on income taxes. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 882,835 $ 821,518 $ 603,824 Working capital $ 760,635 $ 694,484 $ 498,524 SINA shareholders’ equity $ 1,239,308 $ 1,221,727 $ 620,505 We have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily using the $97.5 million raised through the sale of preference shares, the $68.8 million raised from the sale of ordinary shares in the initial public offering , the $97.3 million raised from the sale of zero-coupon, convertible, subordinated notes in July 2003 and the $180.0 million raised from the private equity placement of SINA ordinary shares to New-Wave in November 2009, as well as cash generated from operations and the exercise of stock options. On July 7, 2003, we issued $100 million aggregate amount of zero-coupon, convertible, subordinated notes (the “Notes”) due 2023 in a private offering, which resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $97.3 million. The Notes were issued at par and bear no interest. The Notes are convertible into our ordinary shares, upon satisfaction of certain conditions, at an initial conversion price of $25.79 per share, subject to adjustments for certain events. Upon conversion, we have the right to deliver cash in lieu of ordinary shares, or a combination of cash and ordinary shares. During 2007, one million dollars of the Notes were converted as SINA ordinary shares. We may redeem for cash all or part of the Notes on or after July 15, 2012, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes. The purchasers may require us to repurchase all or part of the Notes for cash on July 15 annually from 2007 through 2013, and on July 15, 2018, and upon a change of control, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes. We filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 for the resale of the Notes and the ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, which Registration Statement is no longer effective. One of the conditions for conversion of the Notes to SINA ordinary shares is that the sale price (defined as closing per share sales price) of SINA ordinary shares reaches a specified threshold for a defined period of time. The specified thresholds are (i) during the period from issuance to July 15, 2022, if the sale price of SINA ordinary shares, for each of any five consecutive trading days in the immediately preceding quarter, exceeds 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share, and (ii) during the period from July 15, 2022 to July 15, 2023, if the sale price of SINA ordinary shares on the previous trading day is more than 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share. The closing price of our ordinary shares on December 31, 2010, the last trading day of 2010, was $68.82. For the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the sale price of SINA ordinary shares exceeded 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share for five consecutive trading days. The Notes are therefore convertible into SINA ordinary shares for the quarter ending June 30, 2011 in accordance with threshold (i) described above. Upon a purchaser’s election to convert the Notes in the future periods, we have the right to deliver cash in lieu of ordinary shares, or a combination of cash and ordinary shares. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Board authorized, but did not obligate, the Company to repurchase up to $100 million of the Company’s ordinary shares on an opportunistic basis. Stock repurchases under this program may be made through open market purchases, in negotiated transactions off the market, in block trades pursuant to a 10b5-1 plan, which would give a third party independent discretion to make purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares, or otherwise and in such amounts as we deem appropriate. In 2009, we repurchased an aggregate of 2,454,956 shares in the open market, at an average price of $20.37 for a total consideration of $50.0 million. The repurchase program expired at the end of 2009. In September 2009, we entered into a definitive agreement for a private equity placement of SINA’s ordinary shares with New-Wave. At the closing in November 2009, we received gross proceeds of $180.0 million and New-Wave received 5,608,612 ordinary shares in SINA. We filed a Registration Statement on Form F-3 for, among other things, the resale of the ordinary shares issued in the private equity placement. 62 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, we had $882.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, we had issued 3.7 million new common shares to settle conversion requests equivalent to $96.1 million in convertible bond and the liability corresponding was extinguished. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance is sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, we may decide to enhance our liquidity position or increase our cash reserve for future acquisitions via additional capital and/or finance funding. The issuance and sale of additional equity would result in further dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could result in operating covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The following tables set forth the movements of our cash and cash equivalents for the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 116,595 $ 98,086 $ 114,000 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (235,910 ) 111,664 (23,960 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 11,977 155,299 12,407 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4,534 (1,946 ) 9,207 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (102,804 ) 363,103 111,654 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 746,423 383,320 271,666 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 643,619 $ 746,423 $ 383,320 Operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities for 2010 was $116.6 million. This was attributable to our net loss of $19.3 million, adjusted by non-cash write-down of equity investment value of $128.6 million, non-cash income from equity investment, net, of $12.6 million and non-cash expenses including stock-based compensation of $13.4 million, depreciation of $13.6 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $1.2 million, amortization of intangible assets of $3.3 million, and a net decrease in cash from working capital items of $10.8 million. The net decrease in working capital items was mainly due to the increase in accrued liabilities, such as content fees, business taxes payable, sales rebate, marketing expenses and accounts receivable, partially offset by the decrease in deferred revenue. The increase in accounts receivable resulted from the increase in our advertising sales while the decrease in deferred revenue reflecting the related amortization recorded. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2009 was $98.1 million. This was attributable to our net income of $412.3 million, adjusted by non-cash related gains on sales of business and equity investment, net, of $375.1 million and non-cash related expenses including stock-based compensation of $33.4 million, depreciation of $15.3 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $5.3 million, amortization of intangible assets of $4.4 million, the realized foreign exchange gains from liquidated subsidiaries of $2.0 million and a net increase in cash from working capital items of $0.7 million. The net increase in working capital items was mainly due to the increase in accrued liabilities, such as content fees, bandwidth costs, sales commissions, bonuses and marketing expenses and deferred revenues, offset by the increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2008 was $114.0 million. This was attributable to our net income of $81.2 million, adjusted by non-cash related expenses including depreciation of $16.0 million, stock-based compensation of $14.3 million, allowance for doubtful accounts of $3.5 million, amortization of intangible assets of $1.6 million and a net increase in cash from working capital items of $1.6 million, offset by the unrealized foreign exchange gains from liquidated subsidiaries of $2.0 million and gains from the sale of business and equity investments of $2.4 million. The net increase in working capital items was mainly due to the increase in accrued liabilities, such as content fees, bandwidth costs, sales commissions, bonuses and marketing expenses, deferred revenues and income tax payable, partially offset by the increase in account receivables that resulted from the significant increase in our advertising revenues. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2010 was $235.9 million. This was a result of the purchase of short-term investments of $558.2 million, equipment purchases of $20.9 million, and investments and prepayments on investments of $55.8 million, partially offset by the maturities of short-term investments of $399.0 million. Net cash provided by investing activities for 2009 was $111.7 million. Cash from the maturities of short-term investments was $191.6 million. This was offset by the purchase of short-term investments of $45.7 million, investments and prepayments on 63 Table of Contents investments of $17.1 million, sales of interest in subsidiary of $11.6 million, equipment purchases of $4.9 million and cash paid for acquisition of intangible assets of $0.6 million. Net cash used in investing activities for 2008 was $24.0 million. This was due to the purchase of short-term investments of $154.0 million, equipment purchases of $18.8 million and purchase of additional interest in a private company of $2.0 million, offset by the maturities of short-term investments of $150.9 million. Financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities for 2010 was $12.0 million. Cash from the issuance of ordinary shares relating to the exercise of share options was $12.5 million while payments of other financing activities were $0.5 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for 2009 was $155.3 million. Cash from the issuance of ordinary shares was $205.1 million comprising $180.0 million from the private equity placement of SINA ordinary shares to New-Wave and $25.4 million from the exercise of share options. Cash from noncontrolling interest shareholders’ capital contribution was $0.8 million. These were offset by the repurchase of ordinary shares pursuant to the repurchase program of $50.1 million and $0.5 million of payments for other financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities for 2008 was $12.4 million. Proceeds from the exercise of share options was $10.5 million and capital contribution from E-House was $2.5 million while payments for other financing activities were $0.6 million. C. Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, etc. Not applicable. D. Trend Information Other than as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we are not aware of any trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events for the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, income, profitability, liquidity or capital resources, or that caused the disclosed financial information to be not necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial conditions. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any unconsolidated third parties. In addition, we have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our shares and classified as shareholders’ equity, or that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. Moreover, we do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us. F. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010: Payments Due by Period Less Than One One to Three to More Than Total Year Three Years Five Years Five Years (In thousands) Operating leases obligation $ 18,607 $ 5,528 $ 13,079 $ — $ — Purchase commitments 98,129 64,713 33,016 177 223 Other long-term liabilities 2,266 — 528 — 1,738 Total contractual obligations $ 119,002 $ 70,241 $ 46,623 $ 177 $ 1,961 Operating lease obligations include the commitments under the lease agreements for our office premises. We lease office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through 2013. Rental expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $8.4 million, $7.6 million and $6.5 million, respectively. Based on the current rental lease agreements, future minimum rental payments required as of December 31, 2010 are $5.5 million, $8.2million and $4.9 million for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The majority of the commitments are from our office lease agreements in China. Purchase commitments mainly include minimum commitments for Internet connection fees associated with website production, content fees associated with website production and MVAS, advertising serving services and marketing activities. 64 Table of Contents Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees A. Directors and Senior Management The following table provides information with respect to our executive officers and directors as of March 31, 2011: Name Age Position Charles Chao 45 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) Herman Yu 40 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) Hong Du 39 Chief Operating Officer Tong Chen 44 Executive Vice President & Chief Editor Yan Wang 38 Chairman of the Board Pehong Chen 53 Independent Director Lip-Bu Tan 51 Independent Director Ter Fung Tsao 65 Independent Director Yichen Zhang 47 Independent Director Song-Yi Zhang 55 Independent Director Charles Chao has served as a director and Chief Executive Officer since May 2006. Mr. Chao has served as our President since September 2005 and as our Chief Financial Officer from February 2001 to May 2006. Mr. Chao served as our Co-Chief Operating Officer from July 2004 to September 2005. Mr. Chao served as our Executive Vice President from April 2002 to June 2003. From September 1999 to January 2001, Mr. Chao served as our Vice President, Finance. Prior to joining us, Mr. Chao served as an experienced audit manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an accounting firm. Mr. Chao is currently a director of Focus, an out-of-home media and advertising network company, NetDragon Websoft Inc., a company providing technology for online gaming, CRIC and several private companies. Mr. Chao holds a Master of Professional Accounting degree from University of Texas at Austin, an M.A. in Journalism from University of Oklahoma and a B.A. in Journalism from Fudan University in Shanghai, China. Herman Yu has served as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer since August 2007. Mr. Yu has served as our Acting Chief Financial Officer from May 2006 to August 2007 and Vice President and Corporate Controller from September 2004 to May 2006. Prior to joining SINA, Mr. Yu worked at Adobe Systems, as the Corporate Marketing Controller from June 2001 to September 2004 and as the Chief Auditor from January 1999 to May 2001. Mr. Yu also held various finance and accounting management positions at Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and VeriFone, Inc. Mr. Yu began his career with Arthur Andersen and is a California Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Yu is currently a director of Qunar.com, a travel search company, Lashou.com, an online group buying company, and Mecox Lane. Mr. Yu holds a Masters of Accountancy from the University of Southern California and a B.A. in Economics from the University of California. Hong Du has served as the Company’s Chief Operating Officer since February 2008. Ms. Du joined the Company in November 1999 and worked in the Business Development department until April 2004. From May 2004 to January 2005, Ms. Du served as Deputy General Manager of 1Pai.com, a joint venture between SINA and Yahoo! Ms. Du rejoined the Company in January 2005 and served as our General Manager of Sales Strategy from January 2005 to March 2005, General Manager of Sales from April 2005 to August 2005, Vice President of Sales from September 2005 to February 2007, and Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing from February 2007 to February 2008. Ms. Du is currently a director of CRIC. Ms. Du holds a B.S. in Applied Chemistry from Harbin Institute of Technology and an M.S. in MIS from San Francisco State University. Tong Chen has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Editor since February 2007. In 1997, Mr. Chen took part in the founding of SRSnet.com, a division of Beijing Stone Rich Sight Information Technology Co., Ltd. (currently known as Beijing SINA Information Technology Co. Ltd.), one of our subsidiaries, and he formally joined the Company in March 1998. Mr. Chen served as host of our SRSnet.com Sports Salon from April 1997 to August 1998, Chief Editor of our News Center from September 1998 to June 1999, our Content Director from June 1999 to June 2000, Executive Deputy General Manager of our China operations from June 2000 to May 2002, our Vice President and Chief Editor from May 2002 to November 2003 and our Senior Vice President and Chief Editor from November 2003 to February 2007. Mr. Chen holds an M.B.A. from China-Europe International Business School, an M.A. in Journalism from Renmin University of China, an M.A. in Communications from Beijing Institute of Technology and a B.S. in electronic engineering from Beijing University of Technology. Yan Wang has served as a director since May 2003 and is currently serving as our Chairman of the Board. Mr. Wang served as our Vice Chairman of the Board from May 2006 to May 2008. Previously, he served as our Chief Executive Officer from May 65 Table of Contents 2003 to May 2006, our President from June 2001 to May 2003, our General Manager of China Operations from September 1999 to May 2001 and as our Executive Deputy General Manager for Production and Business Development in China from April 1999 to August 1999. In April 1996, Mr. Wang founded the SRSnet.com division of Beijing Stone Rich Sight Limited (currently known as Beijing SINA Information Technology Co. Ltd.), one of our subsidiaries. From April 1996 to April 1999, Mr. Wang served as the head of our SRS Internet Group. Mr. Wang holds a B.A. in Law from the University of Paris. Pehong Chen has served as a director since March 1999. Mr. Chen has been the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Broadvision, Inc., a software applications company, since May 1993. Prior to founding Broadvision, Mr. Chen was Vice President of Multimedia Technology at Sybase, Inc., an enterprise software company, from 1992 to 1993. From 1989 to 1992, Mr. Chen founded and was president of Gain Technology, a multimedia software tools company, which was acquired by Sybase. Mr. Chen is currently a director of UFIDA Software Co., Ltd, a management software company. He received a B.S. in Computer Science from National Taiwan University, an M.S. in Computer Science from Indiana University and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Lip-Bu Tan has served as a director since March 1999. Mr. Tan is the Founder and Chairman of Walden International, an international venture capital firm founded in 1984. Mr. Tan is also President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an EDA company. Mr. Tan is currently a director of Flextronics International Ltd., an electronics manufacturing services company, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., a foundry in China, Inphi Corporation, a provider of high-speed analog semiconductor solutions, and several other private companies. He holds an M.S. in Nuclear Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an M.B.A. from the University of San Francisco and a B.S. from Nanyang University, Singapore. Ter Fung Tsao has served as a director since March 1999. Mr. Tsao has served as Chairman of Standard Foods Corporation (formerly known as Standard Foods Taiwan Ltd.), a packaged food company, since 1986. Before joining Standard Foods Taiwan Ltd., Mr. Tsao worked in several positions within The Quaker Oats Company, a packaged food company, in the United States and Taiwan. Mr. Tsao received a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Cheng Kung University in Taiwan, an M.S. in Sanitary Engineering from Colorado State University, and a Ph.D. in Food and Chemical Engineering from Colorado State University. Yichen Zhang has served as a director since May 2002. Since 2003, Mr. Zhang has been the Chief Executive Officer of CITIC Capital Holdings Limited (“CCHL,” formerly known as CITIC Capital Markets Holdings Ltd.), a China-focused investment management and advisory firm. Prior to founding CITIC Capital, Mr. Zhang was an Executive Director of CITIC Pacific and President of CITIC Pacific Communications. He was previously a Managing Director at Merrill Lynch responsible for Debt Capital Market activities for the Greater China region. Mr. Zhang began his career at Greenwich Capital Markets in 1987 and became Bank of Tokyo’s Head of Proprietary Trading in New York in the early 1990s. Mr. Zhang returned to China in the mid 1990s and advised the Chinese Ministry of Finance and other Chinese agencies on the development of the domestic government bond market. Mr. Zhang is a graduate of Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Song-Yi Zhang has served as a director since April 2004. Mr. Zhang currently serves as the Chairman of Mandra Capital. In addition, he has been an Advisory Director of Morgan Stanley based in Hong Kong since December 2000. From November 1997 to November 2000, Mr. Zhang was a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley and served separately as a Managing Director in its Asia Mergers, Acquisitions, Restructuring and Divestiture Group and Co-head of its Asia Utilities/ Infrastructure Group. Mr. Zhang is currently a director of Hong Kong Energy, an alternative energy and software development company, Lumena Resource Corp., a thenardite products producer, and China Longyuan Power Group Corporation Limited, a wind power generation company. Mr. Zhang holds a J.D. degree from Yale Law School. There are no family relationships among any of the directors or executive officers of SINA Corporation. Our Board of Directors has determined that the following directors, representing a majority of our directors, are “independent” as defined under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5605(a)(2): Yan Wang, Pehong Chen, Lip-Bu Tan, Ter Fung Tsao, Yichen Zhang, and Song-Yi Zhang. We intend to maintain a majority of independent directors on the Board. 66 Table of Contents B. Amounts of Compensation Paid and Benefits Granted Compensation In 2010, we paid an aggregate of approximately $1.2 million in cash compensation to our executive officers and non-employee directors as a group. Each non-employee director receives an annual cash retainer of $20,000, the Chair of the Audit Committee receives an additional annual cash retainer of $5,000 and the Chair of the Compensation Committee receives an additional annual cash retainer of $3,000. Currently, our employee directors are not entitled to any other cash compensation in addition to their employment compensation for serving on the Company’s Board of Directors. In 2010, we granted an aggregate of 36,000 restricted share units subject to service-based vesting to non-employee directors. Each non-employee director is granted 6,000 restricted share units subject to service-based vesting as of each annual general meeting. Our non-employee directors are not required to pay any consideration to the Company at the time of grant of a restricted share unit. The restricted share units are settled upon the achievement by our executive officers of the service-based vesting conditions prescribed by our Board of Directors. Restricted share units that do not vest as prescribed will be forfeited. In 2010, we granted at estimated fair value on grant date to our executive officers options of T.CN equivalent to approximately 5.7% of the subsidiary’s ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis. These options vest over a four-year period and a term of seven years. See Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on stock-based compensation. Share Incentive Plans Our Board of Directors and shareholders approved the issuance of up to 10,000,000 ordinary shares pursuant to awards granted under the Amended and Restated 2007 Share Incentive Plan (“Amended and Restated 2007 Plan”). The Amended and Restated 2007 Plan, which permits the granting of share options, share appreciation rights, restricted share units and restricted shares, will terminate on August 1, 2015, unless it is terminated earlier by our Board of Directors. The maximum number of ordinary shares that may be granted subject to awards under the Amended and Restated 2007 Plan during any given fiscal year will be limited to 3% of the total outstanding shares of the Company as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year, plus any shares remaining available under the share pool for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Share options and share appreciation rights must be granted with an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value on the date of grant. Upon its adoption on June 29, 2007, the Amended and Restated 2007 Plan replaced the Company’s 1999 Stock Plan, 1999 Executive Stock Option Plan and 1999 Directors’ Stock Option Plan and, as a result, no additional awards could be made under such plans. For a brief description of the Company’s 1999 Stock Plan, 1999 Executive Stock Option Plan and 1999 Directors’ Stock Option Plan, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of May 25, 2011, options and restricted share units for 719,817 ordinary shares are outstanding under the Amended and Restated 2007 Plan, and options to purchase 466,979 ordinary shares are outstanding under the Company’s 1999 Stock Plan, and 1999 Directors’ Stock Option Plan. 67 Table of Contents The following table summarizes, as of May 25, 2011, the outstanding options and restricted share units that the Company granted to our directors, executive officers and other optionees in the aggregate: Ordinary Shares Underlying Outstanding Options and Exercise Price Name Restricted Share Units (US$/Share) Grant Date Expiration Date Chao, Charles * (1) — November 16, 2007 — * (1) — January 12, 2009 — Yu, Herman * (1) — November 16, 2007 — * (1) — January 12, 2009 — Du Hong * $ 24.73 June 7, 2006 June 7, 2012 * (1) — November 16, 2007 — * (1) — January 12, 2009 — Chen Tong * (1) — November 16, 2007 — * (1) — January 12, 2009 — Chen, Pehong * $ 49.95 December 6, 2007 December 6, 2013 * $ 40.59 September 8, 2008 September 8, 2014 * (1) — December 7, 2009 — * — August 2, 2010 — Tan, Lip-Bu * $ 33.68 September 26, 2003 September 26, 2013 * $ 36.40 June 28, 2004 June 28, 2014 * $ 26.37 September 27, 2005 September 27, 2015 * $ 49.95 December 6, 2007 December 6, 2013 * $ 40.59 September 8, 2008 September 8, 2014 * (1) — December 7, 2009 — * — August 2, 2010 — Tsao, Ter Fung * $ 33.68 September 26, 2003 September 26, 2013 * $ 36.40 June 28, 2004 June 28, 2014 * $ 26.37 September 27, 2005 September 27, 2015 * $ 24.39 June 23, 2006 June 23, 2016 * $ 49.95 December 6, 2007 December 6, 2013 * $ 40.59 September 8, 2008 September 8, 2014 * (1) — December 7, 2009 — * — August 2, 2010 — Zhang, Song-Yi * $ 30.35 April 28, 2004 April 28, 2014 * $ 26.37 September 27, 2005 September 27, 2015 * $ 24.39 June 23, 2006 June 23, 2016 * $ 49.95 December 6, 2007 December 6, 2013 * $ 40.59 September 8, 2008 September 8, 2014 * (1) — December 7, 2009 — * — August 2, 2010 — Zhang, Yi-Chen * $ 49.95 December 6, 2007 December 6, 2013 * $ 40.59 September 8, 2008 September 8, 2014 * (1) — December 7, 2009 — * — August 2, 2010 — Wang, Yan * $ 24.23 July 27, 2004 July 27, 2014 * (1) — December 7, 2009 — * — August 2, 2010 — Other employees 646,050 From $1.50 to $33.29 From May 8, 2002 to From May 8, 2012 to March 20, 2008 September 7, 2014 * (1) — From March 30, 2009 to — October 21, 2010 Total 1,186,796 * Less than one percent of the outstanding ordinary shares. (1) Restricted share units. The options granted to our executive officers generally have a term of 6 years, but are subject to earlier termination in connection with termination of continuous service to the Company. Generally, optionees may pay the exercise price via a cashless exercise procedure. Except for the options granted to Charles Chao, options granted to our executive officers vest over a four-year vesting period with 12.5% of the shares covered by the options vesting on the 6-month anniversary of the date of the grant and the remaining shares vesting ratably on a monthly basis over the remaining vesting period of the options. The options granted to Charles Chao vest over a three-year vesting period with 1/6th of the shares covered by the option vesting on the 6-month anniversary of the date of the grant and the remaining shares vesting ratably on a monthly basis over the remaining vesting period of the options. The restricted share units subject to service-based vesting that were granted to our executive officers and non-employee directors generally vest over a three to four-year period on a straight-line basis on each 6-month anniversary date. Change in Control and Severance Agreements Certain of our executive officers are entitled to receive cash payments and other benefits upon the occurrence of termination of employment or a change in control of the Company when certain conditions are satisfied. See “Board Practices — Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control” below. C. Board Practices Terms of Directors and Executive Officers Our Amended and Restated Articles of Association currently authorize a Board of not less than two directors and the classification of the Board into three classes serving staggered terms. At each annual general meeting, the terms of one class of directors will expire. The directors whose terms expire each year will be those who have been in office the longest since their last election. A director whose term is expiring will remain in office until the close of the meeting at which his or her term expires, and will be eligible for re-election at that meeting. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Association also provide that any newly appointed director shall hold office only until the next annual general meeting at which time such director shall be eligible for re-election by the shareholders. 68 Table of Contents We currently have seven members of the Board of Directors. All members of the Board, except for the CEO, serve a three-year term. The Board has designated our CEO as the managing director of the Company and, as such, has a permanent seat on the Board in accordance with our Amended and Restated Articles of Association. Assuming that the size of our board remains between 7 and 9 members, the Class I directors whose term will expire at our 2012 annual general meeting are Yan Wang and Song-Yi Zhang, the Class II directors whose terms will expire at our 2013 annual general meeting are Ter Fung Tsao and Yichen Zhang and the Class III directors whose terms will expire at our 2011 annual general meeting are Pehong Chen and Lip-Bu Tan. For the period during which each director has served on the Board, please refer to “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management.” Our officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Our Employment Agreement with our CEO, Charles Chao, dated July 31, 2009, has a term of three years and may be extended for an additional one-year period after the end of the original term. Our Employment Agreements with each of our other officers, Herman Yu, CFO, and Hong Du, COO, and Tong Chen, Executive Vice President & Chief Editor, all dated November 16, 2010, have a term of three years and may be extended for an additional one-year period after the end of the original term. For the period during which each officer has served in office, please refer to “Item 6.A. Directors and Senior Management.” Board Committees Our Audit Committee consists of Lip-Bu Tan, Ter Fung Tsao and Song-Yi Zhang. All members of the Audit Committee are independent directors under the standards set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rules 5605(c)(2)(A)(i) and (ii) and each of them is able to read and understand fundamental financial statements. In addition, the Board has determined that Lip-Bu Tan qualifies as an “audit committee financial expert” as defined in the instructions to Item 16A of the Form 20-F and has designated Lip-Bu Tan to serve as the audit committee financial expert for the Company. Lip-Bu Tan is “independent” under the standards set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rules 5605(c)(2)(A)(i) and (ii). Our Audit Committee is responsible for, among other things: Independent accountant 1. Appoint the independent accountant for ratification by the stockholders and approve the compensation of and oversee the independent accountant. 2. Confirm that the proposed audit engagement team for the independent accountant complies with the applicable auditor rotation rules. 3. Ensure the receipt of, and review, a written statement from the Company’s independent accountant regarding the independent accountant’s independence in accordance with applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding the independent accountants’ communications with the Audit Committee concerning independence. 4. Review with the Company’s independent accountant any disclosed relationship or service that may impact the objectivity and independence of the accountant. 5. Pre-approve all audit services and permitted non-audit services to be provided by the independent accountant as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). 6. Review the plan for and the scope of the audit and related services at least annually. Financial Reporting 7. Review and discuss with finance management the Company’s earnings press releases as well as earnings guidance provided to analysts. 8. Review the annual reports of the Company with finance management and the independent accountant prior to filing of the reports with the SEC. 9. Review with finance management and the independent accountant at the completion of the annual audit: a. The Company’s annual financial statements and related footnotes; b. The independent accountant’s audit of the financial statements; c. Any significant changes required in the independent accountant’s audit plan; 69 Table of Contents d. Any serious difficulties or disputes with management encountered by the independent accountant during the course of the audit; and e. Other matters related to the conduct of the audit which are to be communicated to the Committee under generally accepted auditing standards. Related Party and Relationship Disclosure 10. Ensure the receipt of, and review, a report from the independent accountant required by Section 10A of the Exchange Act. 11. Oversee the Company’s compliance with SEC requirements for disclosure of accountant’s services and Audit Committee members and activities. 12. Review and approve all related party transactions other than compensation transactions. Critical Accounting Policies & Principles and Key Transactions 13. Review with finance management and the independent accountant at least annually the Company’s application of critical accounting policies and its consistency from period to period, and the compatibility of these accounting policies with generally accepted accounting principles, and (where appropriate) the Company’s provisions for future occurrences which may have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company. 14. Oversee the Company’s finance function, which may include the adoption from time to time of a policy with regard to the investment of the Company’s assets. 15. Periodically discuss with the independent accountant, without Management being present, (i) their judgments about the quality, appropriateness, and acceptability of the Company’s accounting principles and financial disclosure practices, as applied in its financial reporting, and (ii) the completeness and accuracy of the Company’s financial statements. 16. Review and discuss with finance management all material off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) and other relationships of the Company with unconsolidated entities or other persons, that may have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources, capital reserves or significant components of revenues or expenses. Internal Control and Related Matters 17. Oversee the adequacy of the Company’s system of internal controls. Obtain from the independent accountant management letters or summaries on such internal controls. Review any related significant findings and recommendations of the independent accountant together with management’s responses thereto. 18. Oversee the Company’s Anti-Fraud and Whistleblower Program. 19. Perform annual self-assessment on Audit Committee effectiveness. In addition to the above responsibilities, the Audit Committee shall undertake such other duties as the Board delegates to it or that are required by applicable laws, rules and regulations. Finally, the Audit Committee shall ensure that the Company’s independent accountant understand both (i) their ultimate accountability to the Board and the Audit Committee, as representatives of the Company’s stockholders and (ii) the Board’s and the Audit Committee’s ultimate authority and responsibility to select, evaluate and, where appropriate, replace the Company’s independent accountant (or to nominate the outside accountant to be proposed for stockholder approval in any proxy statement). Our Compensation Committee consists of Mr. Pehong Chen and Mr. Lip-Bu Tan. The members of the Compensation Committee are non-employee directors. Our Compensation Committee is responsible for establishing and monitoring the general compensation policies and compensation plans of the Company, as well as the specific compensation levels for executive officers. It also administers the granting of equity awards to executive officers under the Company’s share incentive plans. 70 Table of Contents Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control We have entered into contracts with our executive officers (with Mr. Charles Chao, our Chief Executive Officer, also being a director of the Company), which provide for potential payments upon termination or change in control. Terms of Potential Payments — Termination We have entered into an employment agreement with our executive officers providing, among other things, that in the event that employment of such executive officer is terminated without cause or if a constructive termination occurs (either event, an “Involuntary Termination”), such executive officer shall be entitled to receive payment of severance benefits equal to his or her regular monthly salary for twelve months (or in the case of Mr. Chao, (i) eighteen months if the remaining term of his employment agreement (the “Remaining Term”) is more than or equal to eighteen months, (ii) the Remaining Term if the Remaining Term is less than eighteen months but more than twelve months, or (iii) twelve months if the Remaining Term is equal to or less than 12 months (the “Severance Period”)), provided that the executive officer executes a release agreement at the time of such termination. An amount equal to six months of such severance benefits shall be paid on the six-month anniversary of the termination date, and the remaining severance benefits shall be paid ratably over the following six-month period (or in the case of Mr. Chao, over the remaining Severance Period) in accordance with the Company’s standard payroll schedule. Additionally, upon an Involuntary Termination, such executive officer will be entitled to receive any bonus earned as of the date of such termination, which amount shall be paid on the six-month anniversary of such executive officer’s termination date. The Company will also reimburse such executive officer over the twelve months following termination (or in the case of Mr. Chao, over the Severance Period) for health insurance benefits with the same coverage provided to such executive officer prior to his or her termination, provided that reimbursement for the first six months shall be paid on the six-month anniversary of such executive officer’s termination date and reimbursement for any remaining health insurance benefits shall be paid on the first day of each month during which such executive officer receives such health insurance benefits. Any unvested share options or shares of restricted stock held by such executive officer as of the date of his or her Involuntary Termination will vest as to that number of shares that such executive officer would have vested over the twelve-month period following his or her termination (or in the case of Mr. Chao, during the Severance Period) if he or she had continued employment with the Company through such period, and such executive officer shall be entitled to exercise any such share options through the date that is the later of (x) the 15th day of the third month following the date the share options would otherwise expire, or (y) the end of the calendar year in which the share options would otherwise expire. Such executive officer is not eligible for any severance benefits if his employment is terminated voluntarily or if he or she is terminated for cause. In the event that an executive officer voluntarily elects to terminate his or her employment, he or she will receive payment(s) for all salary and unpaid vacation accrued as of the date of his termination of employment and his or her benefits will be continued in accordance with our then-existing benefits plans and policies in effect on the date of termination and in accordance with applicable law. In the event that an executive officer’s employment is terminated for cause, then he or she shall not be entitled to receive payment of any severance benefits, but he will receive payment(s) for all salary and unpaid vacation accrued as of the date of such termination and his or her benefits will be continued in accordance with our then-existing benefits plans and policies in effect on the date of termination and in accordance with applicable law. In the event that an executive officer’s employment with the Company terminates as a result of his or her death or disability, such executive officer’s estate or representative will receive the amount of such executive officer’s target bonus for the fiscal year in which the death or disability occurs to the extent that the bonus has been earned as of the date of such death or disability, as determined by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee based on the specific corporate and individual performance targets established for such fiscal year. Terms of Potential Payments — Change in Control In addition to the employment agreements described above, the Company has also entered into a change in control agreement with its executives. Under the change in control agreements, in general, a change in control shall be deemed to occur if (i) any person or entity acquires fifty percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company’s outstanding securities, (ii) during any period of two consecutive years there is an unwelcome change in a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, (iii) we merge or consolidate with another organization (other than a merger where our shareholders continue to own more than fifty percent of the combined voting power and with the power to elect at least a majority of the Board of Directors), (iv) our shareholders approve a complete liquidation or an agreement for the sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets or (v) there occurs any other event of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act. The change in control agreement provides for certain benefits in the event of a change in control as well as in the event of an involuntary termination after a change in control. Upon a change in control in which the successor corporation does not assume 71 Table of Contents outstanding options, all such options shall become fully vested and exercisable. In addition, if an executive officer’s employment with the Company terminates without cause or if he or she resigns for good reason (as such terms are defined in the change in control agreements) within 24 months following a change in control, such executive officer will receive a pro-rata amount of the full value of any targeted annual bonus for the year in which he or she terminates, the greater of 100% of his or her annual base salary and 100% of his or her targeted annual bonus for the year in which he or she terminates, reimbursement in full of the applicable insurance premiums for him or her and his or her eligible dependents for the first eighteen months that he or she and his or her dependents are eligible for health insurance coverage if a continuance of health insurance benefits are elected, continued D&O insurance coverage for six years after his or her termination, an acceleration of all stock awards that are unvested as of his or her termination date and a tax gross up for any excise tax imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 4999. If the termination is by reason of death or disability within 24 months following a change in control, such executive officer will be entitled to continued payment of his or her full base salary at the rate then in effect on the date of termination for a period of one year from the date of termination. The change in control agreement also provides for a payment of an amount equal to the full value of the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code should the executive officer be subject to the excise tax on golden parachute payments under the Internal Revenue Code. Except as set forth in Item 6.B. Amounts of Compensation Paid and Benefits Granted, we have no service contracts with any of our directors that provide benefits to them upon termination. D. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 3,600 full-time employees, approximately 3,500 of whom are employed in the PRC with the remaining employed in the United States, Hong Kong and Taiwan. From time to time we employ independent contractors to support our production, engineering, marketing and sales departments. The number of independent contractors employed during 2010 was not significant. Our Chinese employees are members of a labor association that represents employees with respect to labor disputes and other employee matters. To date, we have not experienced a work stoppage or a labor dispute that has interfered with our operations. E. Share Ownership The following table sets forth certain information that has been provided to the Company with respect to the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares as of May 25, 2011 by: • each shareholder known to us to own beneficially more than 5% of the ordinary shares; • each director; • each of our executive officers listed in “Directors and Senior Management” above; and • all of our current directors and executive officers as a group. Percentage of beneficial ownership is based on 65,866,693 ordinary shares outstanding as of May 25, 2011 together with options that are exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and shares issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011 for each shareholder. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC. Number of Shares Percent of Name and Address of Beneficial Owners Beneficially Owned Shares Beneficially Owned(1) Major Shareholders New-Wave Investment Holding Company(2) 5,608,612 8.52 % Orbis Investment Management Limited(3) Orbis House, 25 Front Street, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda 3,603,876 5.47 % FMR LLC(4) 82 Devonshire Street Boston, Massachusetts, 02109 6,085,792 9.24 % T. Rowe Price Associates, INC.(5) 100 E. Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202 4,859,023 7.38 % JAT Capital Management, L.P.(6) 601 Lexington Avenue, 51st Floor, New York, NY 10022 3,384,385 5.14 % Directors and Executive Officers Lip-Bu Tan(7) c/o Walden International One California Street, 28th Floor San Francisco, CA 94111 * * Ter Fung Tsao(8) c/o Standard Foods Corporation, 5th Floor, No. 136 Jen Ai Road, Section 3 Taipei 10657, Taiwan * * Pehong Chen(9) 1600 Seaport Blvd, Suite 120 Redwood City, CA 94063 * * Yan Wang(10) * * Yichen Zhang (11) CITIC 26/F CITIC Tower 1 Tim Mei Avenue, Central Hong Kong * * Song-Yi Zhang (12) 10/F, Fung House, 19-20 Connaught Road, Central Hong Kong * * Charles Chao(13) 5,702,989 8.66 % Herman Yu(14) * * Hong Du(15) * * Tong Chen(16) * * All directors and executive officers as a group (11 persons)(17) 6,051,921 9.14 % 72 Table of Contents * Less than one percent of the outstanding ordinary shares. (1) For each named person, the percentage ownership includes ordinary shares which the person has the right to acquire within 60 days after May 25, 2011. However, such shares shall not be deemed outstanding with respect to the calculation of ownership percentage for any other person. Beneficial ownership calculations for 5% shareholders are based solely on publicly-filed Schedule 13D’s or 13G’s, which 5% shareholders are required to file with the SEC. (2) A British Virgin Islands company established and controlled by Charles Chao, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the Company’s management. Investors in New-Wave include certain key managers and employees of the Company and several private equity funds. The key managers and employees of the Company who have invested in New-Wave cannot effect a distribution of the Company’s ordinary shares underlying their shareholding interest in New-Wave unless the holders of more than 50% of New-Wave’s ordinary shares have requested such a distribution and certain other conditions have been satisfied. (3) Beneficial ownership calculation is based solely on a review of a Schedule 13G/A filing made with the SEC on February 15, 2011. (4) Beneficial ownership calculation is based solely on a review of a Schedule 13G filing made with the SEC on February 14, 2011. (5) Beneficial ownership calculation is based solely on a review of a Schedule 13G filing made with the SEC on February 14, 2011. (6) Beneficial ownership calculation is based solely on a review of a Schedule 13G filing made with the SEC on May 23, 2011. JAT Capital Management serves as the investment manager to the JAT Capital Master Fund, Ltd. Mr. John Thaler serves as the managing member of JAT Capital Management, L.P. and the portfolio manager of the JAP Capital Master Fund, Ltd. In such capacities, JAP Capital Management and Mr. Thaler may be deemed to have voting and dispositive power over the shares held for the JAT Capital Master Fund, Ltd. (7) Includes 3,000 shares held by a trust for which Mr. Tan and his wife serve as trustees and 65,500 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (8) Includes 10,000 shares held by Mr. Tsao and 77,500 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (9) Includes 6,882 shares held by a trust controlled by Mr. Chen and 20,500 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (10) Includes 60,000 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (11) Includes 20,500 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (12) Includes 85,000 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (13) Includes 5,608,612 shares owned by New-Wave Investment Company and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. Mr. Chao is the sole director and executive officer of New-Wave Investment Company. Mr. Chao may be deemed to have shared voting and investment power over the shares held by New-Wave. Mr. Chao disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares, except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein. (14) Includes nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (15) Includes 50 shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (16) Includes nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. (17) Includes 5,608,612 shares owned by New-Wave Investment Company, which Charles Chao may be deemed to have shared voting and investment power, 19,882 shares held by all directors and officers as a group and 329,050 shares issuable upon exercise of options within 60 days from May 25, 2011 and nil share issuable upon vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from May 25, 2011. 73 Table of Contents Except as otherwise indicated, the address of each person listed in the table is SINA Corporation, 20/F Beijing Ideal International Plaza, No. 58 Northwest 4th Ring Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100080, People’s Republic of China, Attention: Corporate Secretary. The persons named in the table have sole voting and investment power with respect to all ordinary shares shown as beneficially owned by them, subject to community property laws where applicable. For information regarding the options held by our directors and executive officers as well as the arrangements involving the employees in the capital of the Company, see “Item 6.B. Compensation — Share Incentive Plans”. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions A. Major Shareholders For information regarding major shareholders, please refer to “Item 6.E. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Share Ownership”. Our major shareholders do not have voting rights that are different from other shareholders. As of May 25, 2011, approximately 65,866,693 ordinary shares, or 99.9% of our total outstanding ordinary shares, were held by 50 record shareholders in the United States, including approximately 99.9% held by Cede & Co. The number of beneficial owners of our ordinary shares in the United States is likely to be much larger than the number of record holders of our ordinary shares in the United States. We are not directly or indirectly controlled by another corporation, any foreign government or any other natural or legal person. We are not aware of any arrangement that may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of our company. B. Related Party Transactions Except for the transactions disclosed below in this Item 7B and Note 7 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, since the beginning of 2008, there has not been, nor is there currently proposed, any transaction or series of similar transactions to which we were or are a party in which any director, executive officer or beneficial holder of more than 10% of any class of our voting securities or such person’s immediate family members or controlled enterprises had or will have a direct or indirect material interest other than as described below and elsewhere in Part I hereof. It is our policy that future transactions between us and any of our directors, executive officers or related parties will be subject to the review and approval of our Audit Committee or other committee comprised of independent, disinterested directors. Our Code of Ethics states that a conflict of interest may exist whenever a relationship of an employee, officer or director, or one of their family members, is inconsistent with the Company’s best interests or could cause a conflict with job responsibilities. Under our Code of Ethics, if our employees, officers and directors have any question regarding whether a conflict of interest exists, they are required to consult with their immediate supervisor or the Compliance Officer of the Company. If they become aware of a conflict or potential conflict, they are required to bring it to the attention of their immediate supervisor or the Compliance Officer. Our Insider Trading Policy applicable to all employees, officers and directors and their family members prohibits trading based on material, non-public information regarding the Company or disclosure of such information for trading in the Company’s securities. Potential criminal and civil liability and disciplinary actions for insider trading are set forth in our Insider Trading Policy. Our Chief Financial Officer serves as the Company’s Insider Trading Compliance Officer for the implementation of our Insider Trading Policy. Our Insider Trading Policy is delivered to all new employees and consultants upon the commencement of their relationships with the Company and is circulated to all personnel at least annually. Private Placement In September 2009, the Company entered into a definitive agreement for a private equity placement of its ordinary shares with New-Wave, a British Virgin Islands company established and controlled by Charles Chao, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the Company’s management. Investors in New-Wave include certain key managers and employees of the Company, including without limitation, Charles Chao, Herman Yu, Hong Du, Tong Chen and Yan Wang, and several private equity funds, including without limitation, funds managed by CITIC Capital, whose Chief Executive Officer, Yichen Zhang, is a director of the Company. In November 2009, 5,608,612 ordinary shares were issued to New-Wave for the aggregate consideration of $180 million. The key managers and employees who have invested in New-Wave cannot effect a distribution of the Company’s ordinary shares underlying their shareholding interest in New-Wave unless the holders of more than 50% of New-Wave’s ordinary shares have requested such a distribution and certain other conditions have been satisfied. The shareholding interest in New-Wave of each of the key managers or employees, other than Charles Chao, corresponds to a number of the Company’s ordinary shares that, when aggregated with all other ordinary shares of the Company beneficially owned by such key managers or employees (including ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options and vesting of restricted share units within 60 days from the date hereof), is less than one percent of the Company’s total issued and outstanding ordinary shares. This transaction resulted in a $10.7 million of stock-based compensation expense, which reflects mostly the appreciation in fair value of the financed shares issued to management between the agreement date with New-Wave in September 2009, when the price was set, and the closing of the private equity financing two months later, which is determined as the measurement date for accounting purposes. 74 Table of Contents Commercial Contracts One of the Company’s subsidiaries is a party to an agreement with Broadvision Inc. (“Broadvision”) whose Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Mr. Pehong Chen, is a director of SINA. Under the agreement, Broadvision provides HR information management hosting service, including software subscription, system upgrade and technical support. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company paid Broadvision approximately $112,000, $114,000 and $72,000, respectively. There was no payable outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Control Agreements PRC law currently limits foreign equity ownership of companies that provide certain Internet and MVAS related businesses. To comply with these PRC regulations, we operate our websites and provide certain online services in China through a series of contractual arrangements with our VIEs, which are PRC domestic companies, and their shareholders. Such contractual arrangements are as follows: • Our subsidiary STC agreed to provide Yan Wang, our former Chief Executive Officer and current Chairman of the Board, an interest-free loan of RMB 300,000 for purposes of providing capital to Beijing SINA Internet Information Services Co., Ltd. and RMB 300,000 for purposes of providing capital to Guangdong SINA Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. The entire principal amount of each of these loans is currently outstanding. Each of these loans was extended as replacement for loans previously extended to Mr. Wang by BSIT in the same principal amounts disclosed above and on the same terms as described below, except where noted, which loans were replaced by the STC loans due to the Company dissolving BSIT in 2008. • STC also agreed to provide Tong Chen, our Executive Vice President and Chief Editor, interest-free loans totaling RMB300,000 for purposes of providing capital to Guangdong SINA Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. In addition, STC has agreed to provide Tong Chen interest-free loans totaling RMB 4,500,000 for purposes of providing capital to Beijing SINA Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. and an interest-free loan of RMB 200,000 for purposes of providing capital to Beijing SINA Infinity Advertising Co., Ltd. The entire principal amount of each of these loans is currently outstanding. Each of these loans was extended as replacement for loans previously extended to Mr. Chen by BSIT in the same principal amounts disclosed above and on the same terms as described below, except where noted, which loans were replaced by the STC loans due to the Company dissolving BSIT in 2008. • STC agreed to provide Hong Du, our Chief Operating Officer, an interest-free loan of RMB 5,350,000 for purposes of providing capital to Beijing SINA Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. The entire principal amount of the loan is currently outstanding. The loan was extended as replacement for the loan previously extended to Ms. Du by BSIT in the same principal amount as disclosed above and on the same terms as described below, except where noted, which loans were replaced by the STC loans due to the Company dissolving BSIT in 2008. • The aforementioned capital investments in the VIEs are funded by SINA and recorded as interest-free loans to the PRC officers and employees. Such interest-free loans are extended solely for subscription of the shares of the VIEs, and the transfer of ownership of the shares in the VIEs, as directed by SINA, is the requisite form of repayment of such interest-free loans. These are not personal loans. Under various contractual agreements, employee shareholders of the VIEs are required to transfer their ownership in these entities to our subsidiaries in China when permitted by PRC laws and regulations or to our designees at any time, and all shareholders of the VIEs are obligated to waive their right of first refusal or any other rights that are restrictive on such requested transfer. In addition, our employee shareholders of the VIEs have pledged their shares in the VIEs (and all rights relating thereto) as collateral for non-payment of (i) the interest-free loans and (ii) fees on technical and other services due to us. Except as set forth above, employee shareholders of the VIEs are not otherwise permitted to transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber their ownership of VIEs without STC’s written approval. All voting rights with respect to the shares of the VIEs are assigned to us. We have the power to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of the VIEs. Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China, we have also entered into exclusive technical agreements and other service agreements with the VIEs, under which these subsidiaries provide technical services and other services to the VIEs in exchange for substantially all net income of the VIEs. In addition to the terms described above which were also applicable to the BSIT loans, STC has entered into a letter agreement with the PRC officers and employees that provides for (i) the cancellation of such officers’ and employees’ obligations under the contractual agreements upon the transfer or acquisition of shares held by such officers and employees and (ii) the indemnification of such officers and employees for any liability incurred in the course of discharging such officers’ and employees’ obligations under any of the contractual agreements. 75 Table of Contents Employment and Compensation Agreements We have entered into employment and compensation arrangements with our directors and executive officers as described in “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees” above. Indemnification Agreements We have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers Charles Chao and Herman Yu and directors Yan Wang, Pehong Chen, Lip-Bu Tan, Ter Fung Tsao, Yichen Zhang, and Song-Yi Zhang containing provisions which may require us, among other things, to indemnify our officers and directors against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as officers or directors, other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature, and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified. Registration Rights Agreements Some of our shareholders are entitled to have their shares registered by us for resale. Transactions and Agreements with CRIC On January 1, 2008, we started to reorganize our real estate and home furnishing channels and online real estate advertising business into a separate unit with its own legal entities, management team, advertising operations, systems and physical facilities. The reorganization was completed on April 1, 2008 with the formation of a joint venture, COHT, between us and CRIC. We contributed $2.5 million in cash, certain assets and liabilities and the rights to operate its real estate and home furnishing channels for a period of ten years. The rights include the licenses granted to COHT to use SINA’s trademark, domain name, portal technologies and certain software. CRIC contributed $2.5 million in cash and a ten-year license to use the database in the CRIC system. We and CRIC beneficially owned 66% and 34% of COHT, respectively. On July 23, 2009, we and CRIC entered into a share purchase agreement, as amended on September 29, 2009, pursuant to which CRIC acquired our 66% equity interest in COHT in exchange for CRIC issuing its ordinary shares to us. We and CRIC also entered into a shareholders agreement and a registration rights agreement on October 21, 2009. We and COHT entered into an amended and restated advertising agency agreement, a domain name and content license agreement, a trademark license agreement and a software license and support services agreement, which became effective immediately upon the closing of CRIC’s acquisition of our equity interests in COHT. Immediately after CRIC’s initial public offering in October 2009, COHT became a wholly-owned subsidiary of CRIC, while E-House and we became CRIC’s two largest shareholders, holding 50.04% and 33.35%, respectively, of CRIC’s total outstanding ordinary shares. During 2010, we acquired an additional 923,000 shares of CRIC’s shares through open market and held approximately 34% of CRIC’s total outstanding ordinary shares as of December 31, 2010. Under the new advertising agency agreement, COHT continues to operate our existing real estate and home furnishing channels and develop a new real estate-related channel on sina.com.cn, and has the exclusive right to sell advertising to real estate, home furnishing and construction materials advertisers on our non-real estate channels, subject to certain limitations on the amount of advertising that may be sold by COHT and fees payable by COHT to us based on the amount of advertising sold. If COHT sells advertising on our non-real estate channels, it will pay us fees of approximately 15% of the revenues generated from these sales. For the year ended December 31, 2010, CRIC paid us a total amount of $6.8 million for online advertising agency fee. As of December 31, 2010, there were $2.0 million due from CRIC, representing online advertising agency fee payable to us. Shareholders Agreement Composition of the board. The shareholders agreement provides that CRIC’s board of directors shall consist of a maximum of eleven members, of which two will be designated by E-House and two will be designated by us. In the event that we or E-House no longer owns at least 20%, but still owns at least 10%, of CRIC’s issued and outstanding ordinary shares, we or E-House, as the case may be, will have the right to designate only one director to CRIC’s board of directors. In the event that we or E-House no longer owns at least 10% of CRIC’s issued and outstanding ordinary shares, we or E-House, as the case may be, shall have no right to nominate any director to the board. As long as E-House owns at least 10% of CRIC’s issued and outstanding ordinary shares and holds more ordinary shares than are held by us, E-House may, in its discretion, select an E-House director to serve as the chairman of the board. Restrictions on transfer. The shareholders agreement provides for certain restrictions on the transfer of CRIC’s ordinary shares. For a 180-day lock up period commencing on the date of the agreement, neither E-House nor we shall transfer or grant or allow to be encumbered any lien with respect to any of CRIC’s ordinary shares held each party, except for a transfer to each party’s respective affiliates or with prior written consent by all other shareholders under the shareholders agreement. Following 76 Table of Contents the lock up period, E-House or we may transfer CRIC’s ordinary shares pursuant to Rule 144 of the Exchange Act or a firm commitment underwritten public offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), in addition to the two types of transfers permitted in the lock up period. Other than these permitted transfers, E-House or we must give a right of first offer to each other shareholder under the agreement prior to transferring CRIC’s ordinary shares to third parties. However, neither party is allowed to, without the prior written consent of the other party, transfer or grant or allow to be encumbered that number of CRIC’s ordinary shares exceeding in aggregate 10% of CRIC’s share capital in a single transaction or series of transactions to any person other than a financial investor, so long as the other party owns at least 20% of CRIC’s issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Registration Rights Agreement CRIC entered into a registration rights agreement with us and E-House, pursuant to which CRIC has granted E-House and us certain registration rights with respect to CRIC’s ordinary shares owned by E-House and us. Demand registration rights. Following the date that is 180 days after the date of this agreement, both E-House and we have the right to demand that CRIC effect a registration covering the offer and sale of CRIC’s ordinary shares held by E-House or us. E-House and we are each entitled to an aggregate of three such registrations. CRIC, however, is not required to prepare and file (1) more than one demand registration statements in any 12-month period, or (2) any demand registration statement within 180 days following the date of effectiveness of any other registration statement. If the demand registration relates to an underwritten public offering and the managing underwriter advises in its reasonable opinion that the number of securities requested to be included in the demand registration exceeds the largest number which reasonably can be sold in such offering without having a material adverse effect on such offering, CRIC will include in such demand registration, up to the maximum offering size, following the order of priority: (1) the registrable securities that the requesting party proposes to register; (2) the registrable securities that any non-requesting party proposes to register; and (3) any securities CRIC proposes to register and any securities with respect to which any other security holder has requested registration. Piggyback registration rights. If CRIC proposes to file a registration statement for an offering of its ordinary shares, other than in a transaction of the type referred to in Rule 145 under the Securities Act or to our employees pursuant to any employee benefit plan, then CRIC must offer E-House and us an opportunity to include in the registration all or any part of E-House’s and our registrable securities. If the piggyback registration relates to an underwritten public offering and the managing underwriter advises in its reasonable opinion that the number of securities requested to be included in the piggyback registration together with the securities being registered by CRIC or any other security holder exceeds the largest number which reasonably can be sold in such offering without having a material adverse effect on such offering, then (1) if CRIC initiated the piggyback registration, CRIC will include in such registration the securities we propose to register first, and allocate the remaining part of the maximum offering size to all other selling security holders on a pro rata basis; (2) if any holder of our securities initiated the piggyback registration, CRIC will include, up to the maximum offering size, first the securities such initiating security holder proposes to register, then the securities of any other selling security holders on a pro rata basis, and lastly the securities CRIC proposes to register. Blackout periods. CRIC is entitled to two blackout periods, aggregating to no more than 120 days in any 12-month period, during which CRIC can defer the filing or effectiveness of a registration statement, if in the good faith judgment of its board of directors, CRIC would be required to disclose in the annual report information not otherwise then required by law to be publicly disclosed, and there is a likelihood that such disclosure, or any other action to be taken in connection with the annual report, would materially and adversely affect or interfere with any significant financing, acquisition, merger, disposition of assets, corporate reorganization or other material transaction of negotiations involving CRIC. Expenses of registration. CRIC will pay all expenses relating to any demand or piggyback registration, except that either E-House or we shall bear and pay all (1) brokerage commissions, (2) commissions, fees, discounts, transfer taxes, stamp duties or expenses of any underwriter or placement agent applicable to registrable securities offered for its account, (3) fees and expenses of its counsel or other advisers, and (4) other out-of-pocket expenses. 77 Table of Contents Amended and Restated Advertising Agency Agreement Under the amended and restated advertising agency agreement, which became effective in October 2009 upon the completion of CRIC’s acquisition of our online real estate business, COHT continues to operate SINA’s existing real estate and home furnishing channels and will develop a new real estate-related channel on sina.com.cn, and has the exclusive right to sell to real estate, home furnishing and construction material advertisers on these three channels as well as SINA’s other websites. If COHT sells advertising on SINA’s websites other than these three channels, COHT is entitled to receive approximately 85% of the revenues generated from these sales. In addition, COHT authorizes SINA as its exclusive agent to sell non real estate advertising on its directly operated website and channels. COHT is also entitled to receive 85% of the revenues generated from these sales. The initial term of the amended and restated advertising agency agreement is ten years. Domain Name and Content License Agreement Under the domain name and content license agreement, which became effective upon CRIC’s acquisition of our online real estate business, SINA grants to COHT an exclusive license to use its three domain names, i.e., house.sina.com.cn, jiaju.sina.com.cn and construction.sina.com.cn, in connection with COHT’s real estate Internet operations in China. In addition, SINA also grants to COHT an exclusive license to use all content whose copyrights are owned by SINA or owned by a third party provider but is sub-licensable by SINA without requiring payment of any additional fees. For other operating content, COHT is required to enter into an agreement with the owner independently and is responsible for the costs associated with procuring the content. The licenses are for an initial term of ten years and free of any additional fees. Trademark License Agreement Under the trademark license agreement, which became effective upon the completion of CRIC’s acquisition of our online real estate business, SINA grants to COHT a non-exclusive license to use three SINA trademarks and an exclusive license to use two SINA Leju trademarks in connection with COHT’s real estate Internet operations in China through website located at www.leju.com and the channels located at house.sina.com.cn, jiaju.sina.com.cn and construction.sina.com.cn. The licenses are for an initial term of ten years and free of any additional fees. Software License and Support Services Agreement Under the software license and support services agreement, which became effective upon the completion of CRIC’s acquisition of our online real estate business, SINA grants to COHT a non-exclusive license to use (i) SINA’s proprietary software including those used for Internet content publishing, advertising publishing, sales management, procurement reimbursement, financial management , flow statistics and monitoring, (ii) current software products and interfaces necessary to facilitate COHT’s use of the current software products, (iii) the databases and compilations, (iv) its improvement to the licensed software and (v) related documentation and hardware, in connection with COHT’s real estate Internet operations in China. SINA will also provide to COHT infrastructure necessary to operate its websites and facilitate its use of the licensed software. In addition, SINA will also provide COHT support services, including routine maintenance, technical support and hardware support. The licenses are for an initial term of ten years and free of any additional fees. However, to the extent that there are any reasonable, incremental costs for use of the licensed software. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information We have appended consolidated financial statements at the end of this annual report filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Legal Proceedings As of December 31, 2010, there were no legal or arbitration proceedings that have had in the recent past, or to the Company’s knowledge, may have, significant effects on the Company’s financial position or profitability. 78 Table of Contents Dividend Policy We have not declared nor paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the past and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. B. Significant Changes None. Item 9. The Offer and Listing A. Listing Details Our ordinary shares have been quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (formerly the NASDAQ National Market) system under the symbol “SINA” since April 13, 2000. The following table sets forth the high and low trading prices of our ordinary shares for (1) each year of the five most recent full financial years, (2) each of the four quarters of the two most recent full financial years and the subsequent period and (3) each of the most recent six months: Trading Price High Low Annual Highs and Lows 2006 $ 30.36 $ 20.23 2007 59.27 29.16 2008 58.60 21.49 2009 47.95 17.89 2010 76.36 32.00 Quarterly Highs and Lows First Quarter 2009 25.85 17.89 Second Quarter 2009 33.97 22.71 Third Quarter 2009 38.70 26.86 Fourth Quarter 2009 47.95 36.25 First Quarter 2010 47.25 35.26 Second Quarter 2010 40.58 32.00 Third Quarter 2010 53.05 34.26 Fourth Quarter 2010 76.36 48.50 First Quarter 2011 109.53 69.12 Monthly Highs and Lows November 2010 65.55 54.64 December 2010 76.36 65.44 January 2011 90.05 69.12 February 2011 95.29 75.18 March 2011 109.53 74.22 April 2011 147.12 107.59 B. Plan of Distribution Not applicable. C. Markets Our ordinary shares have been quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (formerly the NASDAQ National Market) system under the symbol “SINA” since April 13, 2000. D. Selling Shareholders Not applicable. E. Dilution Not applicable. 79 Table of Contents F. Expenses of the Issue Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information A. Share Capital Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association We incorporate by reference into this Annual Report the description of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contained in the Company’s registration statement on Form F-3, Registration No. 333-163990, filed on December 23, 2009. C. Material Contracts We have not entered into any material contracts for the two years immediately preceding the date of this Annual Report other than in the ordinary course of business and other than those described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. D. Exchange Controls See “