ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. The risk factors refer to the separate business of eSpeed and the business of the Combined Company after completion of the merger, as well as certain risks related to the merger. For further information regarding the merger, see the Merger Proxy Statement. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to the Merger The failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations of eSpeed and BGC Partners in the expected time frame may adversely affect the Combined Company’s future results. Historically, eSpeed and BGC Partners have operated as separate companies related primarily through the Amended and Restated Joint Services Agreement dated October 1, 2005 with Cantor (“JSA”), and they will continue to do so until the completion of the merger. The management of the Combined Company may face significant challenges in consolidating the functions of eSpeed and BGC Partners to be acquired in the merger, integrating their technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, as well as retaining key personnel. The integration may also be complex and time consuming, and require substantial resources and effort potentially resulting in the diversion of management’s attention for an extended period of time and the incurrence of substantial costs, including costs we may not anticipate. The integration process may also disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect their relationships with employees and others with whom they have business or other dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the realization of anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements. The Combined Company will incur approximately $12 million in non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies, including legal, accounting or other transaction fees and other costs related to the merger. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses combined in the merger, may over time offset the significant transaction and merger-related costs we incurred, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, difficulties in integrating the businesses of eSpeed and the BGC Partners businesses, acquired from Cantor in the merger, could harm our reputation. Certain directors and executive officers of eSpeed and BGC Partners may have interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to or in conflict with, yours. Executive officers of BGC Partners (who, in some cases, are also officers of eSpeed) negotiated the terms of the merger agreement on behalf of BGC Partners and, upon the unanimous recommendation of the Special Committee, the eSpeed Board of Directors approved the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including the merger and the issuance of Combined Company common stock and rights to acquire Combined Company common stock as consideration in the merger, and unanimously recommended that stockholders vote in favor of the adoption of the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby at the Special Meeting. These directors and executive officers may have interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, yours, and the interests of the current directors and executive officers of eSpeed, the future directors and officers of the Combined Company and certain beneficial owners of eSpeed common stock may conflict with the interests of the unaffiliated eSpeed stockholders. These interests include the continued employment of certain executive officers of eSpeed or BGC Partners by the Combined Company, the continued positions of directors of eSpeed as directors of the Combined Company or as officers or partners of Cantor, and the indemnification of former eSpeed and BGC Partners directors and officers by the Combined Company. 24 Table of Contents eSpeed stockholders, other than Cantor and its affiliates, will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the Combined Company after the merger and will be further diluted upon exchange of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests into Combined Company common stock. After the completion of the merger, eSpeed stockholders, other than Cantor and its affiliates, will own a smaller percentage of the Combined Company than they currently own of eSpeed. Upon completion of the merger, the holders of eSpeed Class A common stock (other than Cantor and its affiliates) will own approximately 41.2% of the Combined Company Class A common stock and will have approximately 11.8% of the voting power of the Combined Company on a diluted basis. Following the closing of the merger, we currently expect to conduct a primary and secondary offering of the Combined Company Class A common stock. The timing, the size and the price of such offering have not yet been determined. Such an offering could dilute the Combined Company stockholders. Holders of eSpeed Class A common stock (other than Cantor and its affiliates), as a group, will have reduced ownership and voting power in the Combined Company compared to their ownership and voting power in eSpeed. In addition, future sales of shares of Combined Company Class A common stock could further dilute eSpeed stockholders. Current eSpeed stockholders will experience further dilution of their ownership interest in the Combined Company upon exchange of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests into Combined Company common stock. The impact of the separation and the merger on the founding partners, restricted equity partners and future working partners may adversely affect the Combined Company’s ability to retain, recruit and motivate these persons. While we believe the separation will promote retention and recruitment, some founding partners, restricted equity partners and future working partners may be more attracted to the benefits of working at a private, controlled partnership or of being a partner in Cantor, which may adversely affect the Combined Company’s ability to retain, recruit and motivate these persons. The impact of the separation on the founding partners, restricted equity partners, future working partners and other employee retention and recruitment is uncertain. Many of the individuals that will be key employees of the Combined Company are currently limited partners of Cantor. We believe that the possibility of becoming a limited partner of Cantor has been an important tool in its ability to hire and retain key employees. Prior to the merger, Cantor will redeem Cantor limited partnership interests held by founding partners in exchange for BGC Holdings limited partnership interests and distribution rights in respect of BGC Partners interests and, after the merger, Combined Company Class A common stock. For a discussion of this redemption and the treatment of founding partners, BGC Partners employees and other persons who provide services to BGC Partners in connection with the separation and the merger, see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—The Proposed Merger,” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—BGC Holdings Participation Plan”. Following the merger, it is not expected that the Combined Company’s key employees will have the right to become limited partners in Cantor. In addition, we expect that from time to time following the merger, key employees of the Combined Company will have the opportunity to become limited partners of BGC Holdings. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—BGC Holdings Participation Plan.” While these BGC Holdings limited partnership interests will entitle founding/working partners and restricted equity partners to participate in distributions of income from the operations of the Combined Company’s business, upon leaving BGC Holdings (or upon any other redemption or purchase of such limited partnership interests as described below), any such founding/working partner or restricted equity partners will, unless Cantor, in the case of the founding partners, and the Combined Company, as the general partner of BGC Holdings, otherwise determine, only be entitled to receive over time, and provided he or she does not violate certain partner obligations, an amount for his or her BGC Holdings limited partnership interests that reflects such partner’s capital account, and not any goodwill or going concern value of the Combined Company’s business. Moreover, unlike Cantor, founding/working partners and restricted equity partners will have no right to exchange their BGC Holdings limited partnership interests for shares of Combined Company capital stock (unless, in the 25 Table of Contents case of founding partners, Cantor determines otherwise, as Cantor intends to do with respect to a portion of the founding partner interests immediately after the merger, and in the case of working partners and restricted equity partners, the BGC Holdings general partner with Cantor’s consent determines otherwise) and thereby realize any higher value associated with Combined Company capital stock. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” The BGC Holdings limited partnership interests are also subject to redemption, with respect to the founding partners, upon mutual agreement of Cantor and the general partner of BGC Holdings, and with respect to the working partners and restricted equity partners, at the election of the general partner of BGC Holdings and will subject founding/working partners and restricted equity partners to non-competition and non-solicitation covenants. In addition, the exercise of Cantor’s right of first refusal in respect of founding partner interests and, in certain circumstances, working partner interests and REU interests (in each case that have not become exchangeable), will result in the share of distributions of income from the operations of the Combined Company’s business on other outstanding BGC Holdings limited partnership interests, including those held by founding/working or restricted equity partners, to remain the same rather than increasing as would be the case if such interests were redeemed by BGC Holdings. The terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership interests held by founding/working partners and restricted equity partners will also differ from the terms of the limited partnership interests in Cantor currently held by founding partners and by certain of the restricted equity partners as follows: • unlike the limited partnership interests in Cantor, founding/working partners and restricted equity partners will not be entitled to reinvest the distributions on BGC Holdings limited partnership interests in additional BGC Holdings limited partnership interests at preferential or historical prices; and • Cantor will be entitled to receive any amounts from selected extraordinary transactions which are withheld from distributions to founding/working partners and restricted equity partners and forfeited by founding/working partners and restricted equity partners leaving BGC Holdings prior to their interests in such withheld distributions fully vesting rather than any such forfeited amounts accruing to the benefit of all BGC Holdings limited partners on a pro rata basis. Founding partners may find any of these terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership interests to be less attractive than the current arrangements for limited partners of Cantor, which may reduce the effectiveness of these interests as retention tools. In addition, the ownership of the distribution rights and underlying shares of Combined Company Class A common stock received by founding partners and other persons providing services to BGC Partners will not be dependent upon a founding partner’s continued employment with the Combined Company or Cantor or compliance with the partner obligations, and founding partners will not be restricted from leaving the Combined Company by the potential loss of shares distributable pursuant to these distribution rights. The Combined Company will be required to pay Cantor for a significant portion of the benefit relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions it may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up BGC Partners receives, the rights to which the Combined Company will assume in the merger, in connection with the separation and the related transactions, respectively. The BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests received by Cantor may, in effect, be exchanged in the future for shares of Combined Company Class B common stock (or, at Cantor’s option or if there are no additional authorized but unissued shares of Combined Company Class B common stock, Combined Company Class A common stock) on a one-for-one basis (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments). The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of BGC U.S. and BGC Global attributable to BGC Partners’, or, after the merger, the Combined Company’s, interest in BGC U.S. and BGC Global that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in the tax basis may reduce the 26 Table of Contents amount of tax that BGC Partners, or, after the merger, the Combined Company, would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. The merger agreement and the separation agreement contemplate that BGC Partners will enter into, and the Combined Company will assume BGC Partners’ rights and obligations under, a tax receivable agreement with Cantor that will provide for the payment by the Combined Company to Cantor of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that it actually realizes as a result of these increases in tax basis and of certain other tax benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. The Combined Company expects to benefit from the remaining 15% of cash savings, if any, in income or franchise tax that it realizes. The Combined Company will determine, after consultation with Cantor, the extent to which it is permitted to claim any such tax benefits, and such tax benefits will be taken into account in computing any cash savings so long as the Combined Company’s accountants agree that it is at least more likely than not that such tax benefit is available. BGC Partners, or, after the merger, the Combined Company, will have the right to terminate the tax receivable agreement at any time for an amount based on an agreed value of payments remaining to be made under the agreement, provided that if Cantor and the Combined Company cannot agree upon a value, the agreement will remain in full force and effect. While the actual amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of the income that BGC Partners, or, after the merger, the Combined Company, achieves, it is expected that as a result of the anticipated magnitude of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of BGC U.S. and BGC Global attributable to BGC Partners’, or, after the merger, the Combined Company’s, interest in BGC U.S. and BGC Global, during the expected 24-year term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that BGC Partners, or, after the merger, the Combined Company, may make to Cantor could be substantial. The ability of BGC Partners, or, after the merger, the Combined Company, to achieve benefits from any such increase will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of future income of BGC Partners, or, after the merger, the Combined Company. Pursuant to the tax receivable agreement, 20% of each payment that would otherwise be made by the Combined Company will be deposited into an escrow account until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year to which the payment relates. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenges the availability of any tax benefit and determines that a tax benefit is not available, the Combined Company will be entitled to receive reimbursements from Cantor for amounts it previously paid under the tax receivable agreement and Cantor will indemnify the Combined Company and hold it harmless with respect to any interest or penalties in respect of the disallowance of any deductions which gave rise to the payment under the tax receivable agreement (together with reasonable attorneys’ and accountants’ fees incurred in connection with any related tax contest, but only to the extent Cantor is permitted to control such contest). Any such reimbursement or indemnification payment shall be satisfied first from the escrow account (to the extent funded in respect of such payments under the tax receivable agreement). See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Tax Receivable Agreement”. 27 Table of Contents The separation and the merger might be challenged by creditors as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, and equity holders and creditors of the entity held liable could be adversely affected should a court agree with such a challenge. Although we do not believe that the separation or the merger will result in a fraudulent conveyance or transfer, if a court in a suit by an unpaid creditor or representative of creditors of Cantor or another entity transferring consideration to BGC Partners or the Combined Company, such as a trustee in bankruptcy, or Cantor or such other entity itself, as debtor-in-possession in a reorganization case under Title 11 of the U.S. Code, were to find that: • the separation or the merger, as the case may be (or any component transaction thereof), was undertaken for the purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of Cantor or another entity by transferring consideration to BGC Partners as part of the separation or the Combined Company as part of the merger, as the case may be; or • Cantor or another entity transferring consideration to BGC Partners as part of the separation or the Combined Company as part of the merger received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in connection with the separation or the merger, as the case may be, and (1) any of Cantor or such other entity (as applicable) were insolvent immediately before, or were rendered insolvent by, the separation or the merger, as the case may be, (2) Cantor or such other entity (as applicable) immediately prior to, or as of the effective time of, the completion of the separation or the merger, as the case may be, and after giving effect thereto, intended or believed that it would be unable to pay its debts as they became due or (3) the capital of any of Cantor or such other entity (as applicable) immediately before, or at the effective time of, the completion of the separation or the merger, as the case may be, and after giving effect thereto, was inadequate to conduct its business; then that court could determine that the separation or the merger, as the case may be (or any component transaction thereof), violated applicable provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or applicable non-bankruptcy fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws. This determination would permit unpaid creditors, the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to rescind the separation or the merger, as the case may be (or component transaction thereof), to recover the consideration transferred or an amount equal to the value thereof from BGC Partners or the Combined Company, or to subordinate or render unenforceable the debt incurred in furtherance thereof, or to require BGC Partners or the Combined Company or the holder of such debt to fund liabilities for the benefit of creditors. Equity holders and creditors of BGC Partners or the Combined Company held liable as a result of such a determination would be adversely affected to the extent each is required to surrender value to satisfy its liability. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law of the jurisdiction that is being applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its liabilities, including contingent liabilities, is greater than its assets, at a fair valuation; • the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount required to pay the probable liability on its total existing debts and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and matured; or • it is generally not paying its debts as they become due. Similar provisions would also apply in any other jurisdiction in which the separation and/or merger takes effect. 28 Table of Contents If the Combined Company were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, as a result of its ownership of BGC U.S., BGC Global or BGC Holdings, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for the Combined Company to continue its business as contemplated and could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operation. If Cantor ceases to hold a majority of the Combined Company’s voting power, Cantor’s interest in the Combined Company could be deemed an investment security under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the “Investment Company Act.” If the Combined Company were to cease participation in the management of BGC Holdings (or BGC Holdings, in turn, were to cease participation in the management of BGC U.S. or BGC Global) or not be deemed to have a majority of the voting power of BGC Holdings (or BGC Holdings, in turn, were to not be deemed to have a majority of the voting power of BGC U.S. or BGC Global), the Combined Company’s interest in BGC Holdings or BGC U.S. or BGC Global could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. If BGC Holdings ceased to participate in the management of BGC U.S. or BGC Global or not be deemed to have a majority of the voting power of BGC U.S. or BGC Global, its interest in BGC U.S. or BGC Global could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Generally, an entity is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. The Combined Company will be a holding company and will hold BGC U.S. limited partnership interests, BGC Global limited partnership interests, the BGC Holdings general partnership interest and the BGC Holdings special voting limited partnership interest, which entitles the holder thereof to remove and appoint the general partner of BGC Holdings. A determination that the Combined Company holds more than 40% of its assets in investment securities could result in the Combined Company being an investment company under the Investment Company Act and becoming subject to registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed prescriptions for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, limit the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options and impose certain governance requirements. If anything were to happen that would cause the Combined Company, BGC Holdings or Cantor to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, the Investment Company Act would limit its capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including Cantor, BGC Holdings or the Combined Company, as the case may be) and ability to compensate key employees. Therefore, if Cantor, BGC Holdings or the Combined Company became subject to the Investment Company Act, it could make it impractical to continue the business of the Combined Company as contemplated by the merger, impair the agreements and arrangements, including the merger agreement, the separation agreement and related agreements and the transactions contemplated by those agreements and arrangements between and among eSpeed, BGC Partners, BGC Holdings, BGC U.S., BGC Global and Cantor or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Combined Company’s Business Because competition for the services of brokers is intense, the Combined Company may not be able to attract and retain highly skilled brokers, which could adversely impact its revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company’s ability to provide high-quality brokerage services and maintain long term relationships with its customers will depend, in large part, upon its brokers. As a result, the Combined Company must attract and retain highly qualified brokerage personnel. In recent years, BGC Partners has significantly grown the number of brokers in its business through new hires and acquisitions of existing businesses, and the Combined Company is expected to continue to do so in the future. Competition for the services of brokers is intense, especially for brokers with extensive experience in the specialized markets in which the BGC businesses participate or the Combined Company may seek to enter. If the Combined Company is unable to hire or retain 29 Table of Contents highly qualified brokers, including retaining those employed by businesses we acquire in the future, the Combined Company may not be able to enter new brokerage markets or develop new products. If the Combined Company loses one or more of its brokers in a particular market in which it participates, the Combined Company’s revenues may decrease and the Combined Company may lose market share in that particular market. In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified brokers could result in substantial additional costs. The businesses constituting the Combined Company have been a party to, or otherwise involved in, several litigations and arbitrations involving competitor claims in connection with new employee hires. The Combined Company may also pursue its rights through litigation when competitors hire its employees who are under contract with the Combined Company. The businesses constituting the Combined Company are currently involved in litigations and arbitrations with their competitors relating to new employee hires and departures. We believe such proceedings are common in the Combined Company’s industry due to its highly competitive nature. An adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s financial condition. Regardless of the outcome of these claims, the Combined Company will generally incur significant expenses and require substantial management time to deal with these claims. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If the Combined Company fails to attract new personnel, or fails to retain and motivate its current personnel, or if the Combined Company incurs increased costs associated with attracting and retaining personnel (such as litigation, arbitration, sign-on or guaranteed bonuses or forgivable loans), the Combined Company’s revenues and expenses could be adversely impacted and, as a result, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Combined Company will face strong competition from brokerage and financial services firms, many of which have greater market presence, marketing capabilities and technological and personnel resources than will the Combined Company, which could lead to pricing pressures which could adversely impact the Combined Company’s revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The brokerage and financial services industries are intensely competitive, and are expected to remain so. The Combined Company will primarily compete with four major, diversified inter-dealer brokers. These inter-dealer brokers are ICAP plc, Tullett Prebon plc, GFI Group Inc. and Compagnie Financière Tradition (which is majority owned by Viel & Cie), all of which are currently publicly traded companies. Other inter-dealer broker competitors will include a number of smaller, private firms that tend to specialize in specific product areas or geographies. The Combined Company will also compete with companies that provide alternative products, such as contracts traded on futures exchanges, and trading processes, such as the direct dealer-to-dealer market for government securities and stock exchange markets for corporate equities and other securities. BGC Partners and eSpeed increasingly compete and after the merger, the Combined Company will compete with exchanges for the execution of trades in certain products, mainly in derivatives such as futures, options and options on futures. The recent consolidations of certain exchanges could have a negative impact on the Combined Company’s operations. Some of the Combined Company’s competitors have greater market presence, marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than it will and, as a result, its competitors may be able to: • develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly than the Combined Company can; • adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • identify and consummate acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively than the Combined Company can; • hire brokers and other key employees of the Combined Company; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services; 30 Table of Contents • more effectively leverage existing relationships with customers and strategic partners or exploit more recognized brand names to market and sell their services; • provide a lower cost structure and lower commissions; • provide access to trading in products or a range of products that at any particular time the Combined Company does not offer; and • develop services similar to the Combined Company’s new services that are preferred by the Combined Company’s customers. In addition, new competitors may emerge and entire product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these existing product lines. If the Combined Company is not able to compete successfully in the future, its revenues could be adversely impacted and as a result its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competition for brokerage transactions also has resulted in substantial commission discounting by brokers that will compete with the Combined Company for its brokerage business. Further discounting could adversely impact the Combined Company’s revenues and margins and as a result could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for hiring brokers of various securities and financial products is also highly competitive and, from time to time, may result in litigation and/or arbitration. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The Combined Company’s operations also will include the sale of pricing and transactional information produced by its brokerage operations to securities information processors and/or vendors. There is a high degree of competition in pricing and transaction reporting products and services, and such businesses may become more competitive in the future. Competitors and customers of the Combined Company’s brokerage businesses have together and individually offered market information services in competition with those offered and expected to be offered by the Combined Company. Consolidation in the brokerage, exchange and financial services industries could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations because the Combined Company may not be able to compete successfully. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the brokerage, exchange and financial services industries, resulting in increased competition. Continued consolidation in the financial services industry and especially among the Combined Company’s customers could lead to the exertion of additional pricing pressure by the Combined Company’s primary customers, impacting the commissions it generates from its brokerage services. Further, the recent consolidation among exchange firms, and expansion by these firms into derivative and other non-equity trading markets, will increase competition for customer trades and place additional pricing pressure on commissions and spreads. These developments have increased competition from firms with potentially greater access to capital resources than the Combined Company. Finally, consolidation among the Combined Company’s competitors other than exchange firms could result in increased resources and product or service offerings for the Combined Company’s competitors. If the Combined Company is not able to compete successfully in the future, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents The failure to integrate successfully the businesses and operations of eSpeed and the BGC Partners businesses acquired from Cantor in the merger could limit our ability to achieve the expected benefits from the acquisition and may adversely affect our future results. Until the completion of the merger, eSpeed and the BGC Partners businesses to be acquired from Cantor in the merger have operated as separate companies related primarily through the Amended and Restated Joint Services Agreement, dated October 1, 2005, which we refer to as the “JSA,” with Cantor. Our management may face significant challenges in consolidating the functions of eSpeed and the BGC Partners businesses to be acquired in the merger, integrating their technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, as well as retaining key personnel. The integration may also be complex and time consuming, and require substantial resources and effort potentially resulting in the diversion of management’s attention for an extended period of time and the incurrence of substantial costs, including costs we may not anticipate. The integration process may also disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect their relationships with employees and others with whom they have business or other dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the realization of anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses combined in the merger, may over time offset the significant transaction and merger-related costs we incurred, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, difficulties in integrating the businesses of eSpeed and the BGC Partners businesses to be acquired from Cantor in the merger could harm our reputation. The Combined Company may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures or hire brokers for new or existing brokerage desks, which could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs and could dilute the common stock owned by the Combined Company’s stockholders. BGC Partners and eSpeed have explored and the Combined Company intends to explore a wide range of strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures with other brokers and with other companies that have interests in businesses in which there are brokerage or other strategic opportunities. For example, in December 2007, we and 11 other leading financial institutions announced the establishment of a new joint venture, a fully-electronic futures exchange, which we refer to as “ELX.” See “Item 1. Business—eSpeed products and Services—Support for ELX Futures Platform.” The Combined Company also may seek to hire brokers for new or existing brokerage desks. These acquisitions or new hires may be necessary in order for the Combined Company to enter into or develop new product areas. Strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and new hires involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • potential disruption of the Combined Company’s ongoing business and product development and distraction of management; • difficulty retaining and integrating personnel and integrating financial and other systems; • the necessity of hiring additional management and other critical personnel and integrating them into current operations; • litigation and/or arbitration associated with hiring brokerage personnel; • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of the Combined Company’s operations; • potential dependence upon, and exposure to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under the Combined Company’s control; • potential unfavorable reaction to the Combined Company’s strategic alliance, acquisition or joint venture strategy by its customers; • to the extent that the Combined Company pursues business opportunities outside the United States, exposure to political, economic, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks that are inherent in 32 Table of Contents operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities; • the up-front costs associated with recruiting brokerage personnel, including those costs associated with establishing a new brokerage desk; • conflicts or disagreements between any strategic alliance or joint venture partners and the Combined Company; and • exposure to additional liabilities of any acquired business, strategic alliance or joint venture. As a result of these risks and challenges, the Combined Company may not realize any anticipated benefits from strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures, and such strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures may in fact materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future strategic alliances, acquisitions or joint ventures or the hiring of new brokerage personnel may involve the issuance of additional shares of Combined Company common stock, which may dilute your ownership of the Combined Company or may involve litigation. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If the Combined Company is unable to identify and exploit new market opportunities, its revenues may decline and as a result its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As more participants enter markets in which the Combined Company operates, the resulting competition often leads to lower commissions. This may result in a decrease in revenues in a particular market even if the volume of trades the Combined Company handles in that market increases. As a result, the Combined Company’s strategy will be to broker more trades and increase market share in existing markets and to seek out new markets in which it believes it can charge higher commissions. Pursuing this strategy may require significant management attention and broker expense. The Combined Company may not be able to attract new customers or successfully enter new markets. If the Combined Company is unable to identify and exploit new market opportunities on a timely and cost-effective basis, its revenues may decline and as a result its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Combined Company’s ability to retain its key employees and the ability of certain key employees to devote adequate time to the Combined Company are critical to the success of the Combined Company’s business, and failure to do so may adversely affect the Combined Company’s revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company’s people will be its most important resource. The Combined Company must retain the services of its key employees and strategically recruit and hire new talented employees to obtain customer transactions that generate substantially all of the Combined Company’s revenues. Howard W. Lutnick, who will serve as the Combined Company’s Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, is also the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Cantor and President and the controlling stockholder of CF Group Management, Inc., Cantor’s managing general partner, which we refer to as “CFGM.” Lee M. Amaitis, who serves as our Co-Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors, and who is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BGC International (formerly known as Cantor Fitzgerald International), which we refer to as “BGCI,” is currently employed as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cantor Index Limited and holds positions at various gaming affiliates of Cantor. Stephen M. Merkel, who will serve as the Combined Company’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, is employed as Executive Managing Director, General Counsel and Secretary of Cantor. In addition, Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel also hold offices at various affiliates of Cantor. We currently expect that Mr. Lutnick will spend approximately 50% of his time each year on Combined Company matters, that Mr. Amaitis will spend 33 Table of Contents approximately 90% of his time each year on Combined Company matters and that Mr. Merkel will spend approximately 50% of his time each year on Combined Company matters, although these percentages may vary depending on business developments at the Combined Company or Cantor or any of their affiliates. Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel hold Cantor partnership interests and will not have these interests redeemed as part of the separation. As a result, these key employees will dedicate only a portion of their professional efforts to the Combined Company’s business and operations. These key employees may not be able to dedicate adequate time to the Combined Company’s business and operations and the Combined Company could experience an adverse effect on its operations due to the demands placed on its management team by their other professional obligations. In addition these key employees’ other responsibilities could cause conflicts of interests with the Combined Company. The BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, which will include non-competition and other arrangements applicable to those key employees of the Combined Company who will be limited partners of BGC Holdings, may not prevent the Combined Company’s key employees, including Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel, who as Cantor partners are not subject to these provisions in the BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, from resigning or competing against the Combined Company. In addition, the success of the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company has largely been dependent on the efforts of Messrs. Lutnick, Amaitis and Shaun D. Lynn and other executive officers. Should Mr. Lutnick leave or otherwise become unavailable to render services to the Combined Company, control of the Combined Company would likely pass to Cantor, and indirectly pass to the then controlling stockholder of CFGM, Cantor’s managing general partner, or to such other managing general partner as CFGM shall appoint. If any of the Combined Company’s key employees, including Messrs. Lutnick, Amaitis and Lynn, were to join an existing competitor, form a competing company, offer services to Cantor that compete with the Combined Company’s services or otherwise leave the Combined Company, some of the Combined Company’s customers could choose to use the services of that competitor or another competitor instead of the Combined Company’s services, which could adversely affect the Combined Company’s revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions, economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties could adversely affect the Combined Company’s business in many ways by negatively impacting its revenues in the financial markets in which it offers services, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions, economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company’s business and profitability. The businesses that will comprise the Combined Company and the brokerage and financial services industry in general are directly affected by national and international economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, the level and volatility of interest rates, changes in and uncertainty regarding tax laws and substantial fluctuations in the volume and price levels of securities transactions. On a combined basis, in the year ended December 31, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2007, over 85% and 89%, respectively, of the Combined Company’s revenues were generated by brokerage operations. As a result, the Combined Company’s revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of low trading volume in the financial markets in which it will offer its services. The financial markets and the global financial services business are, by their nature, risky and volatile and are directly affected by many national and international factors that will be beyond the Combined Company’s control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s results and profitability. These factors include: • economic and political conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere in the world; • concerns about terrorism, war and other armed hostilities; • concerns over inflation and wavering institutional and consumer confidence levels; 34 Table of Contents • the availability of cash for investment by the Combined Company’s dealer customers and their customers; • the level and volatility of interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; • the level and volatility of trading in certain equity and commodity markets; • the level and volatility of the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities, which we refer to as “credit spreads;” and • currency values. Low trading volume or declining prices generally result in reduced revenues. Under these conditions, profitability is adversely affected since many costs, including certain aspects of commissions, compensation and bonuses, are fixed. In addition, although less common, some of the Combined Company’s brokerage revenues will be determined on the basis of the value of transactions or on credit spreads. For these reasons, decreases in trading volume or declining prices or credit spreads could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Employee misconduct or error could harm the Combined Company by impairing its ability to attract and retain customers and subjecting the Combined Company to significant legal liability and reputational harm; moreover, this type of misconduct is difficult to detect and deter and error is difficult to prevent. Employee misconduct or error could subject the Combined Company to financial losses and regulatory sanctions and could seriously harm its reputation and negatively affect its business. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions taken to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not always be effective. Misconduct by employees could include engaging in improper or unauthorized transactions or activities, failing to properly supervise other employees or improperly using confidential information. Employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or processing transactions for customers, could cause the Combined Company to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle, which could expose the Combined Company to the risk of material losses even if the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. If the Combined Company’s customers are not able to settle their transactions on a timely basis, the time in which employee errors are detected may be increased and its risk of material loss could be increased. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct or error, and the precautions the Combined Company takes to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. The industry in which the Combined Company will operate is subject to significant regulation and as a result the Combined Company will be subject to regulatory capital requirements on the Combined Company’s regulated entities, and a significant operating loss or any extraordinary charge against capital could adversely affect the Combined Company’s ability to expand or, depending upon the magnitude of the loss or charge, even to maintain the current level of its business. Many aspects of the Combined Company’s business, like those of other brokerage firms, are subject to significant capital requirements. In the United States, the SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory bodies (including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which we refer to as the “CFTC,” and the National Futures Association, which we refer to as the “NFA”) have stringent provisions with respect to capital applicable to the operation of brokerage firms, which vary depending upon the nature and extent of the broker-dealer’s activities. eSpeed and BGC Partners currently operates and the Combined Company will operate, three U.S.-registered broker-dealers: BGC Securities, a New York general partnership, which we refer to as “BGC Securities,” BGC Financial and eSpeed Brokerage, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as “eSpeed Brokerage.” In addition, eSpeed holds a 49% limited partnership interest in Aqua Securities, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which we refer to as “Aqua,” a U.S. registered broker-dealer. These broker-dealers are each subject to SEC and FINRA net capital requirements. 35 Table of Contents The Combined Company’s international operations will also be subject to capital requirements, which we refer to as “non-U.S. net capital requirements.” BGC Partners, and after the merger, the Combined Company, and certain of its subsidiaries that are incorporated in the United Kingdom are subject to capital requirements established by the U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). The FSA also applies stringent provisions with respect to capital applicable to the operation of these brokerage firms, which vary depending upon the nature and extent of their activities. The provisions relating to capital requirements enforced by the FSA are likely to change with the implementation of the European Directive on Capital Requirements and our U.K. subsidiaries will be required to adhere to these changes. In addition, the majority of the Combined Company’s other foreign subsidiaries will be subject to similar regulation by the relevant authorities in the countries in which they do business. These regulations often include minimum capital requirements which are subject to change. While the Combined Company is expected to continue to maintain levels of capital in excess of regulatory minimums, there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future. If the Combined Company fails to maintain the required capital, the Combined Company will be required to suspend its broker-dealer operations during the period that it is not in compliance with capital requirements, and may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and FINRA or withdrawal of authorization or other disciplinary action from domestic and international regulators, which would have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business. In addition, if the Combined Company fails to maintain the capital required by clearing organizations of which it is a member, its ability to clear through those clearing organizations may be impaired, which may adversely affect its ability to process trades. If the capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. The Combined Company’s ability to withdraw capital from its regulated subsidiaries is subject to restrictions, which, in turn, could limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of its common stock. In addition, the Combined Company may become subject to capital requirements in other foreign jurisdictions in which BGC Partners or eSpeed currently operates or in which the Combined Company may enter. We cannot predict the Combined Company’s future capital needs or its ability to obtain additional financing. BGC Partners has incurred substantial losses in recent periods and the Combined Company may incur losses in the future. BGC Partners has incurred substantial losses in several recent periods as it has sought to expand its operations quickly. BGC Partners recorded net losses of $96.1 million and $123.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. BGC Partners also recorded net losses in certain quarters within other fiscal years. As the Combined Company continues to develop its systems and infrastructure and expand its brand recognition and customer base through increased hiring of sales and other personnel, the Combined Company may incur losses in the future. If the Combined Company’s revenues do not increase sufficiently, or even if the Combined Company’s revenues increase but it is unable to manage its expenses, it may not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. Due to the current customer concentration of the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company, a loss of two, three or more of the Combined Company’s significant customers could harm the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, on a pro forma combined basis, the Combined Company’s top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 40% of the Combined Company’s revenues. If the Combined Company were to lose two, three or more of these significant customers for any reason and not be compensated for such loss by doing additional business with other customers or by adding new customers, the Combined Company’s revenues would decline significantly and the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. 36 Table of Contents The Combined Company’s brokerage activities will be subject to credit and performance risks, which could result in the Combined Company incurring significant losses and as a result could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company’s brokerage activities will be subject to credit and performance risks. For example, the Combined Company’s customers may not deliver securities to one of the Combined Company’s operating subsidiaries which has sold those securities to another customer. If the securities due to be delivered have increased in value, there is a risk that the Combined Company may have to expend its own funds in connection with the purchase of other securities to consummate the transaction. While the Combined Company will take steps to ensure that its customers and counterparties have high credit standings and that financing transactions are adequately collateralized, the large dollar amounts that may be involved in its brokerage and financing transactions could subject it to significant losses if, as a result of customer or counterparty failures to meet commitments, it was to incur significant losses in liquidating or covering its positions in the open market. BGC Partners and eSpeed have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage credit risk, in both agency and principal transactions, through reporting and control procedures and by monitoring credit standards applicable to their customers or counterparties. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of these risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by BGC Partners, eSpeed or, after the merger, the Combined Company. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If BGC Partners’ and eSpeed’s and, after the merger, the Combined Company’s policies and procedures are not fully effective or the Combined Company is not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which it is, or may be, exposed, the Combined Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Combined Company’s insurance policies will not provide coverage for these risks. In agency transactions, the Combined Company will charge a commission for connecting buyers and sellers and assisting in the negotiation of the price and other material terms of the transaction. After all material terms of a transaction are agreed upon, the Combined Company will identify the buyer and seller to each other and leave them to settle the trade directly. The Combined Company will be exposed to credit risk for commissions, as it bills to customers for its agency brokerage services. The Combined Company’s customers may default on their obligations to the Combined Company due to disputes, bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Any losses arising from such defaults could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial problems experienced by third parties could affect the markets in which the Combined Company provides brokerage services. In addition, a disruption in the credit derivative market could affect the Combined Company’s brokerage revenues. Problems experienced by third parties could also affect the markets in which the Combined Company provide brokerage services. For example, in recent years, hedge funds have increasingly begun to make use of credit and other derivatives as part of their trading strategies. As a result, an increasing percentage of our business, directly or indirectly, results from trading activity by hedge funds. Hedge funds typically employ a significant amount of leverage to achieve their results and, in the past, certain hedge funds have had difficulty managing this leverage, which has resulted in market-wide disruptions. If one or more hedge funds that is a significant participant in a derivatives market experienced similar problems in the future, that derivatives market could be adversely affected and, accordingly, our brokerage revenues in that market could decrease. In addition, recent reports in the United States and United Kingdom have suggested weaknesses in the way credit derivatives are assigned by participants in the credit derivative markets. Such reports expressed concern that, due to the size of the credit derivative market, the volume of assignments and the suggested weaknesses in the assignment process, one or more significant defaults by corporate issuers of debt could lead to a market-wide 37 Table of Contents disruption or result in the bankruptcy or operational failure of hedge funds or other market participants. If the credit derivative markets experience a market disruption or if there was real or perceived lack of confidence that the credit derivative markets could orderly process one or more significant defaults of corporate issuers of debt, the use of credit derivatives could be reduced and the credit derivative market could be adversely affected and, accordingly, the Combined Company brokerage revenues in that market could decrease. The securities settlement process and the execution of matched principal transactions will expose the Combined Company to risks related to a counterparty failing to fulfill its obligations that may impact the Combined Company’s liquidity and profitability and as a result could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company will often provide brokerage services to its customers in the form of matched principal transactions, in which it will act as a “middleman” by serving as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades. These principal transactions are then settled through clearing institutions with which the Combined Company will have a contractual relationship. In executing matched principal transactions, the Combined Company is exposed to the risk that one of the counterparties to a transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, either because it is not matched immediately or, even if matched, one party fails to deliver the cash or securities it is obligated to deliver. The exposure the Combined Company will have to less liquid markets exacerbates this risk because transactions in these markets tend to be more likely not to settle on a timely basis than transactions in liquid markets. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase the risk. In addition, widespread technological failure, natural disasters (e.g., tsunami and earthquakes) or communication failures, such as those which occurred as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the blackout in the eastern portion of the United States in August 2003, as well as actual or perceived credit difficulties or the insolvency of one or more large or visible market participants, could cause market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. These failures, difficulties or disruptions could result in a large number of market participants not settling transactions or otherwise not fulfilling their obligations. The Combined Company will be subject to financing risk in these circumstances because if a transaction does not settle on a timely basis, the resulting unmatched position may need to be financed, either directly by the Combined Company or through one of the clearing organizations, at the Combined Company’s expense. These charges may be recoverable from the failing counterparty, but sometimes they are not. In addition, in instances where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged or widespread due to rapid or widespread declines in liquidity for an instrument, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by the Combined Company, which, depending on their size and duration, could limit the Combined Company’s business flexibility or even force the curtailment of those portions of the Combined Company’s business requiring higher levels of capital. Credit or settlement losses of this nature may impact the Combined Company’s liquidity and profitability and as a result could adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company will have market risk exposure from unmatched principal transactions entered into by some of its brokerage desks, which could result in losses and have a disproportionate effect on its revenues, financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. On a limited basis, the Combined Company’s brokerage desks will enter into unmatched principal transactions in the ordinary course of business due to errors or to facilitate transactions, add liquidity, improve customer satisfaction, increase revenue opportunities, attract additional order flow and, in a limited number of instances and subject to risk management limits, for the purpose of proprietary trading. As a result, the Combined Company will have market risk exposure on these unmatched principal transactions. The Combined Company’s exposure will vary based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered and the amount of time the positions are held before the Combined Company disposes of the position. 38 Table of Contents From a risk management perspective, the Combined Company will monitor risk on an end-of-day basis and desk managers will generally monitor such exposure on a continuous basis. Any unmatched positions are intended to be disposed of in the short term. Due to a number of factors, including the nature of the position and access to the market on which it trades, the Combined Company may not be able to match the position or effectively hedge its exposure and often may be forced to hold a position overnight that has not been hedged. To the extent these unmatched positions are not disposed of intra-day, the Combined Company will mark these positions to market. Adverse movements in the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a loss. In addition, any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on the Combined Company’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. The Combined Company will be generally subject to risks inherent in doing business in the international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry, and any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction and the Combined Company’s business could be adversely affected. The businesses that will comprise the Combined Company currently provide services and products to customers in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region through offices in New York, London, as well as Beijing (representative office), Chicago, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Mexico City, Nyon, Paris, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Toronto and we may seek to further expand our operations. On a pro forma combined basis, revenues from foreign countries were $810.3 million, or 72.5% of total revenues, and $533.1 million, or 62.4% of total revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. There are certain additional political, economic, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry. These risks include: • less developed automation in exchanges, depositories and national clearing systems; • additional or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, capital requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the impact of the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which the Combined Company conducts business; • possible nationalization, expropriation and regulatory, political and price controls; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions; • any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems, which could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • reduced protections for intellectual property rights; • adverse labor laws; • outbreak of hostilities; and • potentially adverse tax consequences arising from compliance with foreign laws and regulations to which the Combined Company’s international subsidiaries are subject. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for the Combined Company to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. The Combined Company’s inability to remain in compliance with local laws and 39 Table of Contents regulations in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on its businesses in that market but also on its reputation generally. If the Combined Company is unable to manage any of these risks effectively, its business could be adversely affected. If the value of the dollar against the other currencies in which the Combined Company pays expenses continues to decline or if the value of the dollar against the other currencies in which the Combined Company earns revenues improves dramatically, the Combined Company’s financial results could suffer. Because the Combined Company’s business will be global, dramatic exchange rate fluctuations will be able to impact its results. Significant movements in the U.S. dollar against other currencies, including the Euro and the British pound, in which the Combined Company will pay expenses or earn profits, may have an adverse effect on its financial results. Potential movements in the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which the Combined Company will earn revenues could also adversely affect its financial results. The Combined Company is expected to be leveraged, which could adversely affect its ability to raise additional capital to fund its operations, limit its ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry, expose it to interest rate risk and prevent it from meeting its obligations under its indebtedness. The Combined Company is expected to be leveraged and have approximately $150 million of indebtedness, which is expected to be with third-party institutions and contain covenants that limit the Combined Company’s ability to take selected actions or set financial tests for its business. These covenants could limit the Combined Company’s ability to take advantage of certain business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if the Combined Company is unable to maintain compliance with these covenants, the holders of such indebtedness could declare a default, thereby causing the debt to become immediately due and payable at a premium. If a default were to occur and the Combined Company were unable to meet its obligations, it would be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, sell additional equity or sell assets, which the Combined Company may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. The Combined Company’s indebtedness could have important consequences for its stockholders, including: • it may limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Combined Company’s indebtedness, among other things, its ability to borrow money, dispose of assets or sell equity for its working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, service our debt, strategic initiatives or other purposes; • it may limit the Combined Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its operations or business; • the Combined Company may be more highly leveraged than some of its competitors, which may place it at a competitive disadvantage; • it may make the Combined Company more vulnerable to downturns in its business or the economy; and • there would be a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations if it were unable to service its indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. The Combined Company may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, on terms that are acceptable to it, which could prevent it from developing or enhancing its business, taking advantage of future opportunities or responding to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements. The Combined Company will be dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and sufficient regulatory and clearing capital. Clearing capital is the amount of cash, guarantees or similar collateral that the 40 Table of Contents Combined Company must provide or deposit with its third-party clearing organizations in support of its obligations under contractual clearing arrangements with these organizations. Historically at BGC Partners, these needs have been satisfied from internally generated funds and capital contributions by limited partners of Cantor. Because each of BGC U.S. and BGC Global is expected to distribute, on a quarterly basis, all of its net income to its limited partners, the Combined Company may not have sufficient internally generated funds and may need to raise additional funds. If for any reason the Combined Company needs to raise additional funds, including in order to meet increased clearing capital requirements arising from growth in its brokerage business or otherwise, the Combined Company may not be able to obtain additional financing when needed. If the Combined Company cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, the Combined Company may not be able to develop or enhance its business, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements. The brokerage and financial services industries in general face substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and the Combined Company may face damage to its professional reputation and legal liability if its services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons, all of which could adversely affect the Combined Company’s revenues and liabilities as a result could have a materially adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Many aspects of the Combined Company’s business involve substantial risks of liability and, in the normal course of business, the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company have been a party to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations and other actions involving primarily claims for damages. Regulatory inquiries and subpoenas or other requests for information or testimony in connection with litigation may cause the Combined Company to incur significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. The risks associated with such potential liabilities often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The expansion of the Combined Company’s business, including the expansion into new areas, imposes additional risks of liability. A settlement of, or judgment related to, any such claims or litigation, arbitration, investigation or other action could result in civil or criminal liability, fines, limitations on business activities and other sanctions and otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Any such action could also cause the Combined Company significant reputational harm, which, in turn, could seriously harm its business and prospects. In addition, regardless of the outcome of these lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations and other actions, the Combined Company may incur significant legal and other costs, including substantial management time, dealing with such matters, even if the Combined Company is not a party to the litigation or a target of the inquiry. As a brokerage and financial services firm, the Combined Company will depend to a large extent on its relationships with its customers and its reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain customers. As a result, if the Combined Company’s customers are not satisfied with the Combined Company’s services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to its business than to other types of businesses. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against the Combined Company could adversely affect its revenues and liquidity and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to the Combined Company, which could seriously harm its business and prospects. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Extensive regulation of the Combined Company’s businesses will limit its activities and will result in ongoing exposure to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on the Combined Company’s ability to conduct its businesses. Firms in the financial services industry, including the Combined Company’s businesses, have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years and penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, state securities commissions, state attorneys general and the FSA, have increased accordingly. This regulatory and enforcement environment may generally create uncertainty. 41 Table of Contents The financial services industry, including the Combined Company business, is subject to extensive regulation. The Combined Company and its subsidiaries will be subject to regulation by governmental and self- regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which they operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the United States, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension or expulsion. From time to time, “associated persons” of the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company have been and are subject to periodic investigations which have and may result in disciplinary actions by the SEC, self-regulatory organizations and state securities administrators. Currently, the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company and certain other inter-dealer brokers are being investigated by the SEC with respect to trading practices. In addition, the FSA’s annual risk assessment of the BGC Group’s regulated entities in 2005 identified certain failures in the BGC Group’s risk and control functionality, monthly reporting statements and the classification of certain sub-ledger account items. Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA and the NFA, along with statutory bodies such as the SEC and the FSA, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who will deal with the Combined Company and are not designed to protect the Combined Company’s stockholders. These regulations will often serve to limit the Combined Company’s activities, including through capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Changes in legislation and in the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC, the U.S. Department of Treasury, which we refer to as the “Treasury,” the FSA and other domestic and international regulators and self-regulatory organizations, as well as changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, often directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers and could result in restrictions in the way the Combined Company conducts its business. For example, the U.S. Congress, the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the SEC are continuing to review the nature and scope of their regulation and oversight of the government securities markets and U.S. markets. In Europe, the implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive in Europe, which we refer to as the “MIFID,” in November 2007 involved wide-ranging changes to European financial services regulation. Future legislation and/or regulation, and uncertainties resulting from the possibility of legislation and/or regulation, could adversely impact the Combined Company’s business. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in fines, limitations on business activity, suspension or expulsion from the industry, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon the Combined Company. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts, including for example principal trading and trading to make markets. The businesses that will comprise the Combined Company have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and the Combined Company will regularly seek to review and update its policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs and additional operational personnel. Failure to adhere to these policies, controls and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or customer litigation. A portion of the Combined Company’s revenues will be derived from its sale of market data to third parties, and a decline in customer purchases or adverse new legislation or regulation could have an adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business. A portion of the Combined Company’s revenues, 2% on a pro forma combined basis for the year ended December 31, 2006, was derived from the sale of market data to third parties. BGCantor Market Data (formerly Cantor Market Data) is the exclusive source of real-time proprietary pricing and other data derived through BGC Partners and eSpeed for U.S. and European securities and derivatives. If customers cease buying data or making payments, or if new legislation or regulation were enacted affecting the Combined Company’s right to sell or distribute its market data, it could have an adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business. 42 Table of Contents The Combined Company’s revenues and profitability could be reduced or otherwise adversely affected by pricing plans relating to commissions and fees on its trading platform. The businesses that will comprise the Combined Company negotiate from time to time with certain customers (including many of these businesses’ largest customers) to enter into customized volume discount pricing plans. While the pricing plans are designed to encourage customers to be more active on what will be the Combined Company’s electronic trading platform, they will reduce the amount of commissions payable to the Combined Company by certain of its most active customers for certain products, which could limit the Combined Company’s revenues and constrain its profitability. Reduced spreads in securities pricing, levels of trading activity and trading through market makers and/or specialists could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Computer-generated buy/sell programs and other technological advances and regulatory changes in the marketplace may continue to tighten securities spreads. In addition, new and enhanced alternative trading systems, such as electronic communications networks, have emerged as an alternative for individual and institutional investors, as well as broker-dealers. As such systems do not direct trades through market makers, their use could result in reduced revenues for the Combined Company. In addition, reduced trading levels could lead to lower revenues which could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for its business. The Combined Company’s success will be dependent, in part, upon its intellectual property. BGC Partners and eSpeed have generally relied, and the Combined Company will generally rely, primarily on trade secret, contract, copyright, trademark and patent law to establish and protect their rights to their proprietary technologies, methods and products. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use the Combined Company’s proprietary technologies without authorization or otherwise infringe on its rights. We cannot assure you that the Combined Company intellectual property rights are sufficient to protect its competitive advantages. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect the Combined Company’s proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. The Combined Company may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with its ability to use intellectual property or technology that is material to its business operations. Restrictions on the distribution of some of the market data generated by the Combined Company’s brokerage desks could limit the comprehensiveness and quality of the data the Combined Company is able to distribute or sell. Although BGC Partners and eSpeed have taken and, after the merger, the Combined Company will take, steps to protect themselves, they may not be able to protect their technology from disclosure or from other developing technologies that are similar or superior to their technology. In the future, the Combined Company may have to rely on litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such claims or litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect the Combined Company’s business. Responding to these claims could also require the Combined Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Combined Company. Intellectual property rights of third parties may have an important bearing on the Combined Company’s ability to offer certain of its products and services. Although BGC Partners and eSpeed have taken, and, after the merger, the Combined Company will take, steps to protect themselves, there can be no assurance that BGC 43 Table of Contents Partners and eSpeed are or the Combined Company will be aware of all patents or copyrights containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by the Combined Company products and services. eSpeed is currently defending a patent infringement claim, which could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business. See “Item 3.—Legal Proceedings.” In addition, in the past several years, there has been a proliferation of so-called “business method patents” applicable to the computer and financial services industries. There has also been a substantial increase in the number of such patent applications filed. Under current law, U.S. patent applications remain secret for 18 months and may, depending upon where else such applications are filed, remain secret until a patent is issued. In light of these factors, it is not economically practicable to determine in advance whether our products or services may infringe the present or future patent rights of others. If the Combined Company is unable to protect the intellectual property rights it owns, its ability to operate electronic marketplaces may be materially adversely affected. The Combined Company’s business will be dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We cannot guarantee that the concepts which are the subject of the patents and patent applications that the Combined Company will own are patentable or that issued patents are or will be valid and enforceable or that such concepts will be marketable or profitable for the Combined Company’s business. Additionally, from time to time, issued patents may expire and we may no longer receive revenue related to such patents, including the Wagner Patent, which expired on February 20, 2007. Where patents are granted in the United States, we can give no assurance that equivalent patents will be granted in Europe or elsewhere, as a result of differences in local laws affecting patentability and validity. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that third parties competing or intending to compete with the Combined Company will not infringe any of these patents. Despite precautions BGC Partners, eSpeed or Cantor has taken or that the Combined Company may take to protect the intellectual property rights that will be owned by the Combined Company, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use the Combined Company’s proprietary technology without authorization. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to the Combined Company. It may be difficult for the Combined Company to monitor unauthorized use of its proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the steps the Combined Company will take will prevent misappropriation of its technologies or intellectual property rights. If the Combined Company’s software licenses from third parties are terminated or adversely changed or amended or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, the Combined Company’s ability to operate its business may be materially adversely affected. BGC Partners and eSpeed currently license and after the merger the Combined Company will license databases and other software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and the Combined Company’s business. The licenses are terminable if the Combined Company breaches its obligations under the license agreements. If any material relationships were terminated or adversely changed or amended or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, the Combined Company may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software, and the Combined Company’s ability to operate its business may be materially adversely affected. Although the Combined Company will take steps to locate replacements, there can be no assurance that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. The financial markets in which the Combined Company will operate are generally affected by seasonality which could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s financial performance in a given period. Traditionally, the financial markets around the world experience lower volume during the summer and at the end of the year due to a general slowdown in the business environment and, therefore, the Combined Company’s transaction volume levels may decrease during those periods. The timing of local holidays also affects transaction volume. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s financial performance in a given period. 44 Table of Contents The Combined Company will operate in a rapidly evolving business environment. If the Combined Company is unable to adapt its business effectively to keep pace with these changes, the Combined Company’s ability to succeed will be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The pace of change in the industry in which the Combined Company will operate is extremely rapid. Operating in such a rapidly changing business environment involves a high degree of risk. The Combined Company’s ability to succeed will depend on its ability to adapt effectively to these changing market conditions. If the Combined Company is unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, it may not be able to compete effectively. To remain competitive, the Combined Company must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of its proprietary software, network distribution systems and technologies. The Combined Company’s business environment is characterized by rapid technological changes, changes in use and customer requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render its existing proprietary technology and systems obsolete. The Combined Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to: • develop, license and defend intellectual property useful in its business; • enhance its existing services; • develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of the Combined Company’s existing and prospective customers; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; • respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • adapt to technological advancements and changing standards to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements and varied needs of its customers and prospective customers. There can be no assurance that the Combined Company will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements. The development of proprietary electronic trading technology entails significant technical, financial and business risks. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require the Combined Company to devote substantial resources to modify, adapt and defend its technology. There can be no assurance that the Combined Company will successfully implement new technologies or adapt its proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, or that the Combined Company will be able to successfully defend any challenges to any technology it develops. Any failure on the part of the Combined Company to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, customer requirements or changing industry standards, or any significant delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Combined Company’s networks and those of its third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could make the Combined Company’s customers hesitant to use its electronic marketplaces. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to be a critical element of the Combined Company’s operations. The Combined Company’s networks, those of its third-party service vendors, including Cantor and associated clearing corporations, and the Combined Company’s customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use the Combined Company’s information or cause interruptions or 45 Table of Contents malfunctions in its operations, which could make the Combined Company’s customers hesitant to use its electronic marketplaces. The Combined Company may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. If the Combined Company experiences computer systems failures or capacity constraints, its ability to conduct its operations could be harmed. The Combined Company will internally support and maintain many of its computer systems and networks. The Combined Company’s failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on its ability to conduct its operations. Although all of its business critical systems have been designed and implemented with fault tolerant and/or redundant clustered hardware and diversely routed network connectivity, the Combined Company’s redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate. Although the Combined Company has three geographically disparate main data centers, they could be subject to failure due to environmental factors, power outage and other factors. Accordingly, the Combined Company may be subject to system failures and outages which might impact its revenues and relationship with customers. In addition, the Combined Company will be subject to risk in the event that systems of its partners, customers or vendors are subject to failures and outages. The Combined Company is expected to rely on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, clearance organizations and software and hardware vendors. The Combined Company’s systems, or those of its third-party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: • unanticipated disruptions in service to its customers; • slower response times; • delays in its customers’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • financial losses; • litigation or other customer claims; and • regulatory sanctions. There can be no assurance that the Combined Company will not experience additional systems failures in the future from power or telecommunications failures, acts of God or war, terrorist attacks, human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of the Combined Company’s service, including failures caused by customer error or misuse of our systems, could damage its reputation, business and brand name. If the Combined Company fails to implement and maintain an effective internal control environment, its business and stock price could suffer. The Combined Company will be subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting. Such a report includes, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Until the separation and merger, BGC Partners is not subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on internal controls over financial reporting. Subsequent to the issuance of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, management became aware that certain revenues and 46 Table of Contents expenses related to a portion of the development of related party software covered under the JSA with Cantor required restatement. We had accounted for certain fees paid by related parties for software development as revenue in the period when the cash was received. We concluded that some of these paid fees should have been deferred and recognized ratably over the future period when such software will be used to provide services to Cantor. The restatement correction reduced revenue from current periods, thereby creating a deferred revenue liability. The restatement also corrected the amortization expense that was recorded in connection with the determination of the period of benefit provided by the developed software. We filed an Amendment to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, to reflect the restatement of our audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the financial information in the Selected Financial Data for the five-year period ended December 31, 2006, the unaudited selected quarterly financial information for each quarter in the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and related financial information and disclosures originally filed with the SEC on Form 10-K on March 15, 2007. In connection with that restatement, we also concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2006. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm issued a revised report concluding that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2006. In November 2007, the BGC Division, comprising the BGC businesses, to be acquired in the merger, completed a restatement of its 2006 financial statements with respect to errors related to accounting for certain intercompany transactions between the BGC Division and certain affiliates. Also, as previously reported, management of the BGC Division identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including the lack of a formal, documented closing process designed to identify key financial reporting risk. This weakness may indicate a heightened risk that its annual or interim financial statements could contain a material misstatement. Management of the Combined Company has not conducted an assessment of its internal control over financial reporting on a combined basis giving effect to the merger. The Combined Company cannot be certain as to its ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If it cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, it may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, if a material weakness is identified, there can be no assurance that it would be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner in future periods. Moreover, if it is unable to assert that its internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if its independent auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal controls), the Combined Company could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports, which may have an a material adverse effect on its stock price. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may require significant expenses and management resources that would need to be diverted from the Combined operations and could require a restructuring of internal controls over financial reporting. Any such expenses, time reallocations or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on the Combined Company’s operations. The Combined Company will be a holding company, and accordingly it will be dependent upon distributions from BGC U.S. and BGC Global to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses. Following the merger, the Combined Company will be a holding company with no independent means of generating revenues. Any dividends declared by the Combined Company and all applicable taxes payable in respect of the Combined Company’s net taxable income, if any, are expected to be paid from distributions to the Combined Company from BGC U.S. and BGC Global. To the extent that the Combined Company needs funds to 47 Table of Contents pay taxes on its share of BGC U.S.’s and BGC Global’s net taxable income, or if the Combined Company needs funds for any other purpose, and either BGC U.S. or BGC Global is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect the Combined Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and its ability to declare dividends. In addition, any unanticipated accounting or other charges against net income could adversely affect the Combined Company’s ability to declare dividends. While portions of the Combined Company’s compensation structure will be variable, significant parts of the Combined Company’s cost structure will be fixed, and if the Combined Company’s revenues decline and the Combined Company is unable to reduce its costs in the amount that the Combined Company’s revenues decline, its profitability could be materially adversely affected. While the Combined Company’s compensation structure will be variable, significant parts of the Combined Company’s cost structure will be fixed. The Combined Company will base its overall cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for the products and services of the businesses that will comprise the Combined Company. If demand for these products and services and the Combined Company’s resulting revenues decline, the Combined Company may not be able to adjust its cost structure on a timely basis. If the Combined Company is unable to reduce its costs in the amount that the Combined Company’s revenues decline, its profitability could be materially adversely affected. The market price of eSpeed Class A common stock has fluctuated and the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock may fluctuate in the future. In addition, future sales of shares of Combined Company Class A common stock, including in any public offering, could adversely affect the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock. The Combined Company stockholders, other than Cantor and its affiliates, could be diluted by such future sales and be further diluted upon exchange of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests into Combined Company common stock and upon issuance of additional BGC U.S. and BGC Global limited partnership interests to BGC Holdings as a result of future issuances of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests. eSpeed has also repurchased its shares from time to time, and, after the merger, the Combined Company may cease doing so at any time. The market price of eSpeed Class A common stock has fluctuated widely since its initial public offering in December 1999 and, after the merger, the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the Combined Company’s actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of the Combined Company’s competition and of the financial marketplaces in general, differences between the Combined Company’s actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, seasonality, changes in general valuations for companies in the Combined Company’s business segment, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Future sales of the Combined Company’s shares also could adversely affect the market price of its Class A common stock. Following the closing of the merger, we currently expect to conduct a primary and secondary offering of Class A common stock of the Combined Company. The timing, the size and the price of such offering have not yet been determined, any of which could adversely affect the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock. If the Combined Company’s existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if the Combined Company issues a large number of shares of its common stock in connection with future acquisitions, strategic alliances, third-party investments and private placements or otherwise, the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these stockholders might sell shares could depress the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock. In addition, future sales of shares of the Combined Company Class A common stock could dilute the Combined Company stockholders. The Combined Company stockholders will experience further dilution of their 48 Table of Contents ownership interest in the Combined Company upon exchange of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests for Combined Company common stock. Moreover, the Combined Company stockholders could be diluted upon issuance of additional BGC Holdings as a result of future issuances of BGC Holdings limited partnership interest. eSpeed has registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the “Securities Act,” 30,430,000 shares of Class A common stock, which are reserved for issuance upon exercise of options, restricted stock and other incentive compensation granted under its Long Term Incentive Plan. Following the merger, the Combined Company may register additional shares of Class A common stock under the Securities Act that become reserved for issuance under its Long Term Incentive Plan. These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates. In addition, eSpeed has registered under the Securities Act 425,000 shares of Class A common stock issuable under its stock purchase plan and 500,000 shares issuable under its 401(k) plan. Since June 9, 2002, approximately 5.9 million shares of eSpeed Class A common stock that have been distributed to partners of Cantor as part of a deferred stock distribution by Cantor have been eligible for resale in the public market subject to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The availability for sale of such number of shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of eSpeed Class A common stock. Cantor will be able to exchange up to an aggregate of 20 million of its BGC Holdings limited partnership interests prior to the first anniversary of the completion of the merger for shares of Combined Company Class A common stock in connection with a broad-based public offering including all shares received upon such exchange, of Combined Company Class A common stock underwritten by a nationally recognized investment banking firm and all of its BGC Holdings limited partnership interests after the first anniversary of the completion of the merger. The BGC Holdings limited partnership interests that Cantor transfers to founding partners in redemption of their current limited partnership interests in Cantor at the time of the separation will be exchangeable for Combined Company common stock if Cantor reacquires such interests from the founding partners, in which case such interests will be exchangeable with the Combined Company for Combined Company Class A common stock or Combined Company Class B common stock, or Cantor determines that such interests can be exchanged by such founding partners with the Combined Company for Combined Company Class A common stock. Cantor expects to permit such exchanges from time to time, including with respect to 20% of the BGC Holdings founding partner interests held by each founding partner, and certain additional exchange rights for Messrs. Lee M. Amaitis and Shaun Lynn immediately after the merger. See “Item 10. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Any working partner interests that are issued after the merger will not be exchangeable with the Combined Company unless otherwise determined by the Combined Company with the written consent of a BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interest majority in interest. The shares ultimately issuable pursuant to the BGC Holdings REUs (if exchangeable) and the BGC RSUs that may be issued upon the closing of the merger would be shares of Combined Company Class A common stock issued pursuant to the Long Term Incentive Plan or similar plan. After the merger, we expect approximately 111,890,929 shares of Combined Company common stock will be reserved for issuance in connection with the exchange of the BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests, which will be entitled to registration rights under the terms of the separation registration rights agreement with Cantor that the Combined Company intends to assume in connection with the separation and the merger, and BGC Holdings founding partner interests (if exchangeable) and BGC Holdings REUs (if exchangeable). In addition, shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock held by Cantor are entitled to registration rights under a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the formation of eSpeed, which we refer to as the “formation registration rights agreement.” In light of the number of shares of Combined Company Class A common stock issuable in connection with the full exchange of the BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests, BGC Holdings founding partner 49 Table of Contents interests (if exchangeable), and BGC Holdings REUs (if exchangeable) the price of Combined Company Class A common stock may decrease and its ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities may be adversely impacted as these exchanges occur and transfer restrictions lapse. In addition, the following table reflects the timetable for distributions by Cantor of shares of Combined Company Class A common stock that it holds or will hold in respect of the distribution rights that Cantor will provide to limited partners of Cantor in connection with the separation, assuming that the limited partners in Cantor were entitled to accelerated distribution of the shares underlying such distribution rights, as described under “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” All of these shares of Combined Company Class A common stock will be distributed by Cantor. Cantor expects to use shares of Combined Company Class A common stock received upon its conversion of Class B common stock, shares of Combined Company common stock received upon exchange of BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests and purchases of shares of Combined Company common stock in the open market to satisfy its distribution obligation under the distribution rights. Anniversary of the merger Number of shares of CombinedCompany Class A common stock thatis expected to be distributed by Cantor toCantor Partners in respect of thedistribution rights 12 month 7,693,500 18 month 7,744,512 24 month 7,744,512 30 month 1,255,712 36 month 1,255,712 Total 25,693,948 In addition to the table above, the managing general partner of Cantor will be able to grant earlier distribution of the shares in its discretion. After the one year anniversary of the merger, to the extent that earlier acceleration of distribution rights for the Combined Company’s common stock is permitted for purposes of donating interests and/or distributed shares to charitable organizations, we anticipate that the charities receiving such donated shares would sell their holdings on the open market immediately after receipt. In addition, eSpeed has issued shares of its Class A common stock, warrants and convertible preferred stock and granted registration rights in connection with certain of its strategic alliances. See “Item 10. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” During the year ended December 31, 2006, eSpeed repurchased an aggregate of 52,239 shares of its Class A common stock for a total of $0.5 million. The reacquired shares have been designated treasury shares and will be used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2007, eSpeed’s Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $58.2 million of its outstanding Class A common stock. eSpeed and, after the merger, the Combined Company will consider making additional stock repurchases in 2008, but may cease making repurchases at anytime. For the year ended December 31, 2007, there were no stock repurchases. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Combined Company’s Relationship with Cantor and Its Affiliates Holders of Combined Company common stock will experience a reduction in their interest in the income distributed by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that is retained by the Combined Company upon the exchange of any BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interest (or, if applicable, any BGC Holdings founding partner interest, BGC Holdings working partner interest or BGC Holdings REU interest) if, prior to such exchange, BGC Holdings distributes to its limited partners a greater share of the distributions BGC Holdings receives from BGC U.S. and BGC Global than the Combined Company distributes to its stockholders. There is no assurance that the Combined Company and BGC Holdings will distribute to their respective equity holders an equal proportion of their profits from BGC U.S. and BGC Global and we expect that in the future the Combined Company may reinvest in BGC U.S. and BGC Global, including for the business needs of BGC U.S. and BGC Global. Pursuant to the terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership agreement, distributions by BGC Holdings to its partners may not be decreased below 100% of net income received by BGC Holdings from BGC U.S. and BGC Global (other than with respect to selected extraordinary items, such as the disposition directly or indirectly of partnership assets outside of the ordinary course of business) unless the Combined Company and Cantor agree otherwise. In addition, distributions by the Combined Company to its stockholders will be determined by the Combined Company Board of Directors. Accordingly, there is overlap in the entities and persons who will make the determination as to the timing and amount of distributions from BGC U.S. and BGC Global with those who have an ultimate interest in those distributions, namely, the founding/working partners, the restricted equity partners, Cantor and the Combined Company’s stockholders. If BGC Holdings distributes to its limited partners a greater share of income received from BGC U.S. and BGC Global than the Combined Company distributes to its stockholders, and then Cantor exercises its exchange right to acquire Combined Company Class B common stock or Combined Company Class A common stock, as applicable (or, to the extent then-exchangeable, a BGC Holdings founding partner interest, a restricted equity partner interest or a working partner interest is exchanged for Combined Company Class A common stock), then Cantor, such founding partner, such restricted equity partner, and/or such working partner, as the case may be, will receive a greater share of the income of BGC U.S. and BGC Global than they had prior to such distribution by BGC Holdings and such exchange. This results from Cantor, such founding partner, such restricted equity partner, and/or such working partner, prior to such exchange, receiving the benefit of the income of BGC U.S. and BGC Global in the form of a distribution from BGC Holdings, and Cantor, such founding partner, such restricted equity partner, and/or such working partner, after such exchange, receiving the benefit of the profits of BGC U.S. and BGC Global in the form of equity in the Combined Company, which retained a greater portion of its share of the income of BGC U.S. and BGC Global. Consequently, holders of Combined Company Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of the date of such exchange will experience a reduction in their interest in the profits previously distributed by BGC U.S. and BGC Global but retained by the Combined Company. The Combined Company will be controlled by Cantor, which will have potential conflicts of interest with the Combined Company and may exercise its control in a way that favors its interests to the Combined Company’s detriment. • Cantor’s Control Immediately after the separation and the completion of the merger, Cantor will effectively be able to exercise control over the Combined Company’s management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of the Combined Company’s directors and determinations with respect to acquisitions and dispositions, as well as material expansions or contractions of the Combined Company’s business, entry into new lines of business and borrowings and issuances of Combined Company Class A common stock and Class B common stock or other securities. This control will be subject to the approval of the Combined Company’s independent directors on those matters requiring such approval. Cantor’s voting power may also have 51 Table of Contents the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Combined Company. Conflicts of interest may arise between the Combined Company and Cantor in a number of areas relating to the Combined Company’s past and ongoing relationships, including: • potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses; • the issuance or disposition of securities by the Combined Company; • the election of new or additional directors to the Combined Company’s Board of Directors; • the payment of dividends by the Combined Company (if any) and distribution of profits by BGC U.S., BGC Global and/or BGC Holdings; • business operations or business opportunities of the Combined Company and Cantor that would compete with the other party’s business opportunities, including brokerage and financial services by the Combined Company and Cantor; • labor, tax, employee benefits, indemnification and other matters arising from the separation or the merger; • intellectual property matters; • business combinations involving the Combined Company; • the terms of the merger agreement and the related agreements we intend to enter into in connection with the merger and separation; • conflicts between the Combined Company’s agency trading for primary and secondary bond sales and Cantor’s investment banking bond origination business; • competition between the Combined Company’s and Cantor’s other equity derivatives and cash equity inter-dealer brokerage businesses; and • the nature, quality and pricing of administrative services to be provided by Cantor and/or Tower Bridge International Services, L.P. The Combined Company also expects that Cantor will manage its ownership of the Combined Company so that it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, including by maintaining its voting power in the Combined Company above a majority absent an applicable exemption from the Investment Company Act. This may result in conflicts with the Combined Company, including those relating to acquisitions or offerings by the Combined Company involving issuances of common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of common stock that would dilute the voting power in the Combined Company of the holders of BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests. In addition, Cantor has from time to time in the past considered possible strategic realignments of the business relationships that exist between and among Cantor and the businesses comprising the Combined Company and may do so in the future. Any future related party transactions or arrangements between the Combined Company and Cantor, until Cantor ceases to hold 5% of the Combined Company’s voting power, will be subject to the prior approval by a majority of the Combined Company’s independent directors, but generally will not otherwise require the separate approval of the Combined Company’s stockholders, and if such approval were required, Cantor will retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of the other stockholders. In addition, the service of officers or partners of Cantor as the Combined Company’s executive officers and directors, and those persons’ ownership interests in and payments from Cantor, and its affiliates, could create conflicts of interest when the Combined Company and those directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Cantor and the Combined Company. See “—Risks Related to our Business—The Combined Company’s ability to retain our key employees and the ability of certain key 52 Table of Contents employees to devote adequate time to us is critical to the success of our business, and failure to do so may adversely affect our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our agreements and other arrangements with Cantor may be amended upon agreement of the parties to those agreements upon approval of the Special Committee (if prior to the merger) or Audit Committee of the Combined Company (if after the merger). During the time that the Combined Company is controlled by Cantor, Cantor may be able to require the Combined Company to agree to amendments to these agreements. The Combined Company may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts and, even if it does, the resolution may be less favorable to it than if it were dealing with an unaffiliated party. • Corporate Opportunities In order to address potential conflicts of interest between the Combined Company and Cantor and its representatives, the Combined Company certificate of incorporation will contain provisions regulating and defining the conduct of the Combined Company’s affairs as they may involve Cantor and its representatives, and the Combined Company’s powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of its representatives in connection with its relationship with Cantor and its affiliates, officers, directors, general partners or employees. The Combined Company certificate of incorporation will provide that no Cantor Company (as defined below) or any of the representatives (as defined below) of a Cantor Company will owe any fiduciary duty to, nor shall any Cantor Company or any of their respective representatives be liable for breach of fiduciary duty to, the Combined Company or any of its stockholders. The corporate opportunity policy that will be included in the Combined Company certificate of incorporation is designed to resolve potential conflicts of interest between the Combined Company and Cantor and its representatives. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Potential Conflicts of Interest and Competition between eSpeed, the Combined Company and Cantor.” In addition, the Combined Company certificate of incorporation will provide that Cantor and its respective representatives will have no duty to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as the Combined Company; or • doing business with any of the Combined Company’s’ clients or customers. The limited partnership agreement for BGC Holdings will contain similar provisions with respect to the Combined Company and/or Cantor and their respective representatives, and the limited partnership agreements for BGC U.S. and BGC Global will contain similar provisions with respect to the Combined Company and/or BGC Holdings and their respective representatives. If Cantor competes with the Combined Company, it could materially harm the Combined Company’s business operations. Agreements between the Combined Company and Cantor are between related parties and the terms of these agreements may be less favorable to the Combined Company than those that the Combined Company could have negotiated with third parties. The Combined Company’s relationship with Cantor results in agreements with Cantor that are between related parties. As a result, the prices charged to the Combined Company or by the Combined Company for services provided under agreements with Cantor may be higher or lower than prices that may be charged by third parties and the terms of these agreements may be less favorable to us than those that the Combined Company could have negotiated with third parties. For example, pursuant to the separation agreement, Cantor will have a right, subject to certain conditions, to be a customer of the Combined Company and to pay the lowest commissions paid by any other customer of the Combined Company, whether by volume, dollar or other applicable measure. In addition, Cantor will have an unlimited right to internally use market data from BGCantor 53 Table of Contents Market Data without any cost. Any future related party transactions or arrangements between the Combined Company and Cantor, until Cantor ceases to hold 5% of the Combined Company’s voting power, will be subject to the prior approval by a majority of the Combined Company’s independent directors, but generally will not otherwise require the separate approval of the Combined Company’s stockholders, and if such approval were required, Cantor will retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of the other stockholders. See “Item 10. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Risks Related to the Combined Company’s Capital Structure Because the voting control of the Combined Company common stock will be concentrated among the holders of Combined Company Class B common stock, the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock may be adversely affected by disparate voting rights. As of January 24, 2008, Cantor beneficially owned 87.1% of the Total Voting Power. Upon completion of the merger, Cantor will beneficially own approximately 88.2% of the combined voting power of all classes of Combined Company voting stock. As long as Cantor beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of Combined Company voting stock, it will have the ability, without the consent of the public stockholders, to elect all of the members of the Combined Company Board of Directors and to control the Combined Company’s management and affairs. In addition, it will be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of the Combined Company’s stockholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of the Combined Company. In certain circumstances such as when transferred to an entity controlled by Cantor or Howard W. Lutnick, the shares of Combined Company Class B common stock issued to Cantor may be transferred without conversion to Combined Company Class A common stock. The holders of Combined Company Class A common stock and Class B common stock will have substantially identical rights, except that holders of Combined Company Class A common stock will be entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Combined Company Class B common stock will be entitled to 10 votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders in general. These votes are controlled by Cantor and are not subject to conversion or termination by the Combined Company Board of Directors or any committee thereof, or any other stockholder or third-party. This differential in the voting rights could adversely affect the market price of Combined Company Class A common stock. Delaware law and the Combined Company certificate of incorporation may make a takeover of the Combined Company more difficult and dilute your percentage of ownership of Combined Company common stock. Provisions of Delaware law, such as its business combination statute, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Combined Company. In addition, the Combined Company certificate of incorporation will authorize the issuance of preferred stock, which the Combined Company Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval and with rights senior to those of the Combined Company common stock, as well as warrants to purchase Combined Company common stock. Any such issuances would make a takeover of the Combined Company more difficult and may dilute your percentage ownership of Combined Company common stock. The Combined Company certificate of incorporation and the Combined Company by-laws will include provisions that provide for advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control or management of the Combined Company, even if such transactions would have significant benefits to its stockholders. As a result, these provisions could limit the price some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Combined Company Class A common stock. 54 Table of Contents Delaware law may protect decisions of the Combined Company Board of Directors that have a different effect on holders of Combined Company Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Stockholders may not be able to challenge decisions that have an adverse effect upon holders of Combined Company Class A common stock if the Combined Company Board of Directors acts in a disinterested, informed manner with respect to these decisions, in good faith and in the belief that it is acting in the best interests of the Combined Company’s stockholders. Delaware law generally provides that a Board of Directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders, regardless of class or series, and does not have separate or additional duties to either group of stockholders, subject to applicable provisions set forth in a company’s charter. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 