ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; · changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; · changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; · failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · failure of our products to operate as advertised · success of competitive products; · changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; · regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; · litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · investors’ general perception of us. 9 In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Utah law could discourage delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Utah corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Utah Control Shares Acquisition Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by limiting the voting rights of control shares acquired in a control share acquisition. In addition, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that shareholders may consider favorable. Among other things, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and bylaws: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; · provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office, except a vacancy occurring by reason of the removal of a director without cause shall be filled by vote of the shareholders; and · limit who may call special meetings of shareholders. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by, or beneficial to, our shareholders. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, the ability to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. Our common stock was delisted from NYSE Amex LLC and is currently listed for trading on the Over-the-counter Bulletin Board. Prior to November 13, 2009, our common stock was listed for trading on NYSE Amex LLC, or the Exchange, under the symbol “TKO.” On May 18, 2009, we received a letter from the Exchange notifying us that we were out of compliance with the Exchange’s continued listing standards due to the impairment of our existing financial condition. In the opinion of the Exchange, our historical losses in relation to our overall operations and existing financial resources caused our financial condition to become so impaired that it appeared questionable as to whether we would be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. On June 25, 2009, we submitted a plan to the Exchange advising of the actions we had taken, and planned to take, that would bring us into compliance with the applicable listing standards within the six month cure period. On August 27, 2009, we were notified of the Exchange’s intention to delist our common stock because our plan did not reasonably demonstrate the ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Exchange. On November 3, 2009, we received notice from the Exchange informing us that the Hearing Panel had confirmed the Staff’s recommendation that our common stock be delisted from the Exchange. After considering the costs to us of compliance with the continued listing requirements of the Exchange and other factors, we determined that it was not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders to appeal the delisting of our common stock from the Exchange and approved the voluntary delisting of the securities. The Exchange suspended trading in our common stock effective at the open of business on November 13, 2009, at which time our common stock began trading on the Over-the-Counter market’s Pink Sheets under the symbol “TKOI.PK.” On December 7, 2009, we received FINRA approval for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our common stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board on December 8, 2009 under the symbol “TKOI.” The delisting of our common stock from the Exchange may have had a negative impact on the market’s perception of our company and could also adversely affect our stock price, trading volume, and ability to effect financing and strategic transactions, such as private placements or public offerings of our securities and acquisitions of complementary businesses through shares of our common stock. In addition, our stockholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares may be more limited than they otherwise would be if our common stock were listed on the Exchange because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays on the OTC Bulletin Board. 10 Our common stock may be subject to “Penny Stock” restrictions. If the price of our common stock remains at less than $5 per share, we will be subject to so-called penny stock rules which could decrease our stock’s market liquidity. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to include any equity security that has a market price of less than $5 per share or an exercise price of less than $5 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery to and execution by the retail customer of a written declaration of suitability relating to the penny stock, which must include disclosure of the commissions payable to both the broker/dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, the broker/dealer must send monthly statements disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Those requirements could adversely affect the market liquidity of such stock. There can be no assurance that the price of our common stock will rise above $5 per share so as to avoid these regulations. We have a large number of shares of common stock underlying outstanding debentures and warrants that may become available for future sale, and the sale of these shares may result in dilution. As of March 30, 2010, we had 96,673,771 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, as of that date, YA Global held secured convertible debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $1,606,023, which we refer to as the Debentures, under which the principal and accrued interest may be converted into an estimated 10,706,820 shares of common stock at current market prices, and outstanding warrants to purchase up to 4,621,212 shares of common stock. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures may increase if the market price of our common stock declines. The number of shares of common stock issuable by us to YA Global pursuant to the terms of the Debentures, all other debentures and the warrants issued to holders of the Debentures cannot exceed an aggregate of 19.99% of the total issued and outstanding shares (calculated in accordance with applicable principal market rules and regulations) of our common stock (subject to appropriate adjustment for stock splits, stock dividends, or other similar recapitalizations affecting the common stock), unless we first obtain shareholder approval. We refer to this limitation as the Exchange Cap. The Exchange Cap is applicable for conversion of the Debentures and exercises of the warrants, in the aggregate, and we are not obligated to issue any shares of common stock upon conversion of the Debentures or exercise of the warrants in excess of the Exchange Cap unless and until we first obtain shareholder approval to exceed the Exchange Cap. On May 28, 2009, our shareholders voted against a proposal to remove the Exchange Cap, which would have allowed YA Global to potentially acquire in excess of 19.99% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If our shareholders later approve the removal of the Exchange Cap, all of the shares, including all of the shares issuable upon conversion of the Debentures and upon exercise of our warrants, may be sold without restriction. The sale of these shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The continuously adjustable conversion price feature of our outstanding debentures held by YA Global may encourage investors to make short sales in our common stock, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Due to the Exchange Cap, we are not currently under an obligation to issue shares of common stock to YA Global upon conversion of the Debentures. If, however, our shareholders approve the removal of the Exchange Cap, the Debentures would be convertible into shares of our common stock at a 10% discount to the ten day volume weighted average trading price of the common stock prior to the conversion. The significant downward pressure on the price of the common stock as YA Global converts and sells material amounts of common stock could encourage short sales by investors. This could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. YA Global could sell common stock into the market in anticipation of covering the short sale by converting its securities, which could cause further downward pressure on the stock price. In addition, not only the sale of shares issued upon conversion or exercise of outstanding convertible debt, warrants and options, but also the mere perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock upon conversion of the Debentures and the exercise of outstanding warrants may cause immediate and substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Due to the Exchange Cap, we are not currently under an obligation to issue shares of common stock to YA Global upon conversion of the Debentures. If, however, our shareholders approve the removal of the Exchange Cap, this may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other shareholders because YA Global may ultimately convert the full outstanding amount under the Debentures into shares of common stock, exercise the warrants in full and sell the shares of common stock issued upon such conversion and exercise. Although YA Global may not convert its Debentures and/or exercise its warrants if such conversion or exercise would cause it to own more than 4.99% of our outstanding common stock, this restriction does not prevent YA Global from converting and/or exercising some of its holdings and then converting the rest of its holdings. In this way, YA Global could sell more than 4.99% of our outstanding common stock while never holding more than this limit. If the Exchange Cap is removed, there is no upper limit on the number of shares that may be issued which will have the effect of further diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. 11 Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current stockholders. Although the funds that were raised in our debenture offerings, the note offerings and the private placement are being used for general working capital purposes, it is likely that we will be required to seek additional capital in the future. This capital funding could involve one or more types of equity securities, including convertible debt, common or convertible preferred stock and warrants to acquire common or preferred stock. Such equity securities could be issued at or below the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. Any issuance of additional shares of our common stock will be dilutive to existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The exercise of options and warrants outstanding and available for issuance may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding employee options to purchase a total of 6,120,883 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.00 to $5.99 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.56. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding non-employee options to purchase a total of 740,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2009, we had warrants outstanding to purchase a total of 12,158,941 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.33 to $4.17 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.60. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the sale in the public market of the shares purchased upon such exercise will be dilutive to existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business The industry within which we operate is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance in the markets within which we compete. We will also need to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products. Delays in product development and introduction could result in: · loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; · negative publicity and damage to our reputation and the reputation of our product offerings; and · decline in the average selling price of our products. 12 Government regulation of our products could impair our ability to sell such products in certain markets. The rules of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, permit the operation of unlicensed digital devices that radiate radio frequency emissions if the manufacturer complies with certain equipment authorization procedures, technical requirements, marketing restrictions and product labeling requirements. Differing technical requirements apply to “Class A” devices intended for use in commercial settings, and “Class B” devices intended for residential use to which more stringent standards apply. An independent, FCC-certified testing lab has verified that our iWire System product suite complies with the FCC technical requirements for Class A and Class B digital devices. No further testing of these devices is required, and the devices may be manufactured and marketed for commercial and residential use. Additional devices designed by us for commercial and residential use will be subject to the FCC rules for unlicensed digital devices. Moreover, if in the future, the FCC changes its technical requirements for unlicensed digital devices, further testing and/or modifications of devices may be necessary. Failure to comply with any FCC technical requirements could impair our ability to sell our products in certain markets and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Products sold by our competitors could become more popular than our products or render our products obsolete. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. These competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers and exert more influence on the sales channel than we can. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with these competitors, and these competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more widely accepted than those being developed by us or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. We anticipate that competitors will also intensify their efforts to penetrate our target markets. These competitors may have more advanced technology, more extensive distribution channels, stronger brand names, bigger promotional budgets and larger customer bases than we do. These companies could devote more capital resources to develop, manufacture and market competing products than we could. If any of these companies are successful in competing against us, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted, and we could lose market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, results of operations, and prospects. We may not be able to obtain patents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete effectively in the powerline technology industry will depend on our success in acquiring suitable patent protection. We currently have several patents pending. We also intend to file additional patent applications that we deem to be economically beneficial. If we are not successful in obtaining patents, we will have limited protection against those who might copy our technology. As a result, the failure to obtain patents could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and prospects. Infringement by third parties on our proprietary technology and development of substantially equivalent proprietary technology by our competitors could negatively impact our business. Our success depends partly on our ability to maintain patent and trade secret protection, to obtain future patents and licenses and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, including intellectual property rights of third parties integrated into our Telkonet iWire System product suite and Telkonet SmartEnergy products, will prevent misappropriation or circumvention. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent application, when filed, will result in an issued patent, or that our existing patents, or any patents that may be issued in the future, will provide us with significant protection against competitors. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not be infringed upon or circumvented by others. Infringement by third parties on our proprietary technology could negatively impact our business. Moreover, litigation to establish the validity of patents, to assert infringement claims against others, and to defend against patent infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is in our favor. We also rely to a lesser extent on unpatented proprietary technology, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, techniques or processes or that we can meaningfully protect our rights to such unpatented proprietary technology. If our competitors develop substantially equivalent technology, and we are unable to enforce any intellectual property rights with respect to such technology in a cost-effective manner or at all, our business and operations would suffer significant harm. 13 We may incur substantial damages due to litigation. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. We are currently a defendant in an action in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party. If it were determined that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of another, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from licensing or using the infringing products or technology. Additionally, if it were determined that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, or to re-engineer our products successfully. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. We are also currently defending an action alleging that we are in breach of an obligation to make severance and other payments to a former executive. If it is determined that we are in breach of any such obligation, we could be required to pay substantial damages to our former executive. We depend on a small team of senior management, and it may have difficulty attracting and retaining additional personnel. Our future success will depend in large part upon the continued services and performance of senior management and other key personnel. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management team, our overall operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our future success will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, purchasing and customer service personnel when they are needed. Competition for these individuals is intense. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel when the need arises. Any failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, marketing, purchasing and customer service personnel could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On December 21, 2009, we announced a restructuring which includes the relocation of our offices from Germantown, Maryland to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, consolidating our business operations into a single location. Also as part of the corporate restructuring, we announced that our Chief Financial Officer, Rick Leimbach, will be leaving our company to pursue other opportunities in the near future, although a departure date has yet to be established. Until his departure date, Mr. Leimbach will continue to perform the duties and responsibilities customary and consistent with his position and will assist us in our transition. If we are unable to satisfactorily replace Mr. Leimbach upon his departure, our overall operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we make could result in difficulties in successfully managing our business and consequently harm our financial condition. We may seek to expand by acquiring complementary businesses in our current or ancillary markets. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments that might be required. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may lead to higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses, if any, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including: · failure of the acquired businesses to achieve expected results; · diversion of management’s attention and resources to acquisitions; · failure to retain key customers or personnel of the acquired businesses; · disappointing quality or functionality of acquired equipment and people: and · risks associated with unanticipated events, liabilities or contingencies. 14 Client dissatisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired business could negatively affect our reputation. The inability to acquire businesses on reasonable terms or successfully integrate and manage acquired companies, or the occurrence of performance problems at acquired companies, could result in dilution, unfavorable accounting treatment or one-time charges and difficulties in successfully managing our business. Our inability to obtain capital, use internally generated cash or debt, or use shares of our common stock to finance future acquisitions could impair the growth and expansion of our business. Reliance on internally generated cash or debt to finance our operations or complete acquisitions could substantially limit our operational and financial flexibility. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use shares of our common stock to consummate acquisitions will depend on the market value of our common stock which will vary, and our liquidity. Using shares of our common stock for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to our then existing stockholders. To the extent that we are unable to use our common stock to make future acquisitions, our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital through debt or additional equity financings. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital to finance any acquisitions or our other cash needs. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce the scope of any expansion or redirect resources committed to internal purposes. In addition to requiring funding for acquisitions, we may need additional funds to implement our internal growth and operating strategies or to finance other aspects of our operations. Our failure to: (i) obtain additional capital on acceptable terms; (ii) use internally generated cash or debt to complete acquisitions because it significantly limits our operational or financial flexibility; or (iii) use shares of our common stock to make future acquisitions, may hinder our ability to actively pursue any acquisitions. The restrictive covenants contained in the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the convertible debentures were sold contain restrictions that could limit our financing options. The Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the convertible debentures were sold contains limitations on our ability to engage in certain financing activities without the prior consent of the holders of the convertible debentures. As a result of these restrictions, we may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to fund working capital, operating losses, capital expenditures or acquisitions. The failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Potential fluctuations in operating results could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, most of which are outside our control, including: · the level of use of the Internet; · the demand for high-tech goods; · the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations; · price competition or pricing changes in the industry; · technical difficulties or system downtime; · economic conditions specific to the internet and communications industry; and · general economic conditions. Our quarterly results may also be significantly impacted by certain accounting treatment of acquisitions, financing transactions or other matters. Such accounting treatment could have a material impact on our results of operations and have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. 15 We rely on a small number of customers and cannot be certain they will consistently purchase our products in the future. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Two customers accounted for 39% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during those periods. In the future, a small number of customers may continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in any given period. We cannot be certain that such customers will consistently purchase our products at any particular rate over any subsequent period. A loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We rely on a limited number of third party suppliers. If these companies fail to perform or experience delays, shortages, or increased demand for their products or services, we may face shortages, increased costs, and may be required to suspend deployment of our products and services. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers to provide the components and the equipment required to deliver our solutions. If these providers fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or we are unable to renew these agreements, we may be forced to suspend the sale and deployment of our products and services and enrollment of new customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our management and operational systems might be inadequate to handle our potential growth. We may experience growth that could place a significant strain upon our management and operational systems and resources. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth will require us to continue to improve our operational systems, organization and financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may fail to make these improvements effectively. Additionally, our efforts to make these improvements may divert the focus of our personnel. We must integrate our key executives into a cohesive management team to expand our business. If new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the growth we will need to increase our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. We may not be able to effectively manage such growth, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the lack of segregation of duties and the need for a stronger internal control environment, attributable to the small size of our accounting staff and continued integration of our 2007 acquisitions of Smart Systems International and EthoStream LLC. We retained additional personnel and worked to remediate these deficiencies during fiscal 2009. Notwithstanding those efforts we continue to have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected. Until this deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting is remediated, there is reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements could occur and not be prevented or detected by our internal controls in a timely manner. We may be affected if the United States participates in wars or military or other action or by international terrorism. Involvement in a war or other military action or acts of terrorism may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in (i) delays or cancellations of customer orders, (ii) a general decrease in consumer spending on information technology, (iii) our inability to effectively market and distribute our services or products or (iv) our inability to access capital markets, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the involvement in a war or other military action will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such involvement or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and suppliers may adversely affect our financial results. We sell our products to customers that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulties, particularly in light of the recent global economic downturn. If our customers experience financial difficulties, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers. While we perform credit evaluations and adjust credit limits based upon each customer’s payment history and credit worthiness, such programs may not be effective in reducing our exposure to credit risk. We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable, and based on this evaluation make adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts for expected losses. Actual bad debt write-offs may differ from our estimates, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 16 Our suppliers may also experience financial difficulties, which could result in our having difficulty sourcing the materials and components we use in producing our products and providing our services. If we encounter such difficulties, we may not be able to produce our products for our customers in a timely fashion which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The recent deterioration of the economy and credit markets may adversely affect our future results of operations. Our operations and performance depend to some degree on general economic conditions and their impact on our customers’ finances and purchase decisions. As a result of recent economic events, potential customers may elect to defer purchases of capital equipment items, such as the products we manufacture and supply. Additionally, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on our customers’ ability to fund their operations thus adversely impacting their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, the collection of payments for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to obtain to obtain payment and performance bonds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to deploy our SmartEnergy platform into the energy management initiatives in military housing and deployments may rely on our ability to obtain payment and performance bonds which may be an essential element to work orders for the installation of our products and services. If we are unable to obtain payment and performance bonds in a timely fashion as required by an applicable work order, we may not be entitled to payment under the work order until such bonds have been provided or until such a requirement is expressly waived. And any delays due to a failure to furnish bonds may not entitle us to a price increase for the work or an extension of time to complete the work and may entitle the other party to terminate our work order without liability and to indemnify such party from damages suffered as a result of our failure to deliver the bonds and the termination of the work order. As a result, the failure to obtain bonds where required could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and prospects. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In its report dated March 31, 2010, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors’ doubts are based on our net losses and deficits in cash flows from operations. We continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including by the sale of our securities, or obtaining loans from financial institutions, where possible. Our continued net operating losses and our auditors’ doubts increase the difficulty of our meeting such goals. If we are not successful in raising sufficient additional capital, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and our stockholders may lose their entire investment. We have a limited number of shares of common stock available for future issuance which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or consummate acquisitions. We are currently authorized to issue 155,000,000 shares of common stock under our Articles of Incorporation. As of March 31, 2010, we have outstanding 96,673,771 shares of common stock, or approximately 122,293,353 shares of common stock after giving effect to the assumed exercise of all outstanding warrants and options and assumed conversion of preferred stock. Due to the limited number of authorized shares available for issuance and because of the significant competition for acquisitions, we may not able to consummate an acquisition until we increase the number of shares we are authorized to issue. To facilitate the possibility and flexibility of raising additional capital or the completion of potential acquisitions, we would need to seek shareholder approval to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in amending our Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of common stock we are authorized to issue. If we are not successful in raising sufficient additional capital, we may not be able to continue as a going concern and our shareholders may lose their entire investment. We have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. 17 Since inception through December 31, 2009, we have incurred cumulative losses of $113,741,481 and have never generated enough funds through operations to support our business. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our technology, the industry in which we operate, and other factors, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from our operations to meet our working capital requirements for the next twelve months, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings and interest income earned on our cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation which could result in increased future tax liability for us. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. The number of shares of our common stock that we issue in the proposed rights offering described in our registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-164899) may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could result in increased future tax liability for us. Our business activities might require additional financing that might not be obtainable on acceptable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and our ability to operate going forward. On February 12, 2010, we filed a registration statement on Form S-1 in order to conduct a planned rights offering. In the rights offering, we will distribute at no charge to holders of our common stock, other than those who hold shares of our common stock solely as participants in the Telkonet, Inc. 401(k) plan, and to the holders of our Series A convertible redeemable preferred stock, transferable subscription rights as set forth in the Form S-1. We believe that the anticipated net proceeds from this offering and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and other cash needs indefinitely. However, if we do not meet our business plan targets, we might need to raise additional capital from public or private equity or debt sources in order to finance future growth, including the expansion of service within existing markets and to new markets, which can be capital intensive, as well as unanticipated working capital needs and capital expenditure requirements. The actual amount of capital required to fund our operations and development may vary materially from our estimates. If our operations fail to generate the cash that we expect, we may have to seek additional capital to fund our business. If we are required to obtain additional funding in the future, we may have to sell assets, seek debt financing or obtain additional equity capital. In addition, any indebtedness we incur in the future could subject us to restrictive covenants limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. If we do not comply with such covenants, our lenders could accelerate repayment of our debt or restrict our access to further borrowings. If we raise funds by selling more stock, your ownership in us will be diluted, and we may grant future investors rights superior to those of the common stock that you are purchasing. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, we may have to delay, modify or abandon some of our expansion plans. This could slow our growth, negatively affect our ability to compete in our industry and adversely affect our financial condition. We require shareholder approval to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock. In order to conduct the rights offering, we require shareholder approval to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining shareholder approval to increase the number of shares of common stock we are authorized to issue. If we are not successful in obtaining shareholder approval, we will not have a sufficient number of shares necessary to the completion of the rights offering. A significant portion of our total assets consists of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis, and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period. We have goodwill totaling approximately $11.7 million at December 31, 2009 resulting from recent and past acquisitions. We evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the operating business units to which this goodwill relates at least once a year. This estimated fair value could change if we are unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of those business units decreases based on transactions involving similar companies, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by the business units. These changes could result in an impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. 18 Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and must be current in their reports under Section 13 of the Exchange Act in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. We have substantial debt, and our debt agreements contain certain events of default and are secured by all of our assets. As of December 31, 2009, our indebtedness totaled approximately $2.3 million, excluding advances on our factoring lines of approximately $643,000. As a result, we incur significant interest expense. We had $1.6 million of outstanding term debt that matures in May 2011, approximately $387,000 of our outstanding revolver debt that matures in September 2010, and a $300,000 loan that matures in December 2016. Our debt agreements contain certain events of default, including, among other things, failure to pay, violation of covenants, and certain other expressly enumerated events. Additionally, we have granted to YA Global and Thermo Credit a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, while the State of Wisconsin holds a subordinated interest in our assets. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for operations, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, and other purposes may be limited, or financing may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all; · a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be used to pay our interest expense and repay our debt, which reduces the funds that would otherwise be available to us for our operations and future business opportunities; and · our ability to continue operations at the current level could be negatively affected if we cannot refinance our obligations before their due date. A default under any of our debt agreements could result in acceleration of debt payments and permit the lender to foreclose on our assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. Failure to maintain compliance could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. The terms of our outstanding Debentures put significant restrictions on our ability to: · pay cash dividends to our stockholders; · incur additional indebtedness; · permit liens on assets or conduct sales of assets; and · engage in transactions with affiliates. These significant restrictions could have negative consequences, such as: · we may be unable to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, operating losses, capital expenditures or acquisitions on terms acceptable to us, or at all; · we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all; and · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, which would limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Moreover, any additional debt financing pursued by us may contain terms that include more restrictive covenants, require repayment on an accelerated schedule or impose other obligations that limit the ability to grow our business, acquire needed assets, or take other actions we might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable. We require a waiver under our line of credit facility, without which we will be in default of our line of credit facility. In September 2008, we entered into a two-year line of credit facility with a third party financial institution. Among other things, we agreed with the lender that (i) for each monthly period subsequent to March 31, 2009, we will maintain a ratio of cash flow to scheduled principal payments plus all accrued interest and related fee on funded debt of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter (which we refer to as the minimum cash flow to debt service ratio) and (ii) we will maintain a tangible net worth of not less than $14,400,000 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter (which we refer to as the tangible net worth requirement). On March 24, 2010, we received a notice of waiver of the minimum cash flow to debt service ratio and the tangible net worth requirement under the line of credit facility. The waivers are effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and for a period of ninety (90) days thereafter. We have no assurance that we will be granted a further extension. In the event we are unable to obtain an extension of the waiver we will be in default of the minimum cash flow to debt service ratio and the tangible net worth requirement. A default could result in acceleration of debt payments and permit the lender to foreclose on our assets. 19 ITEM 