Item 1A: Risk Factors Because our operating history is limited and the revenue and income potential of our business and markets are unproven, we cannot predict whether we will meet internal or external expectations of future performance. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenue from our operations, of which we have a limited history. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with a limited operating history. These risks include our ability to: • offer new and innovative products; • attract buyers for our MVAS; • attract advertisers; • attract a larger audience to our network; • derive revenue from our users from fee-based Internet services; • respond effectively to competitive pressures and address the effects of strategic relationships or corporate combinations among our competitors; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships; • increase awareness of our brand and continue to build user loyalty; • attract and retain qualified management and employees; • upgrade our technology to support increased traffic and expanded services; and • expand the content and services on our network or secure premium content. - 21 - Table of Contents We are relying on advertising sales as a significant part of our future revenue, but the online advertising market is subject to many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. Our advertising revenue growth is dependent on increased revenue from the sale of advertising space on our network. The growth of online advertising in Greater China is subject to many uncertainties and many of our current and potential advertisers have limited experience with the Internet as an advertising medium, have not traditionally devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures or other available funds to web-based advertising, and may not find the Internet to be effective for promoting their products and services relative to traditional print and broadcast media. Our ability to generate and maintain significant advertising revenue will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: • the development and retention of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; • the maintenance and enhancement of our brands in a cost effective manner; • increased competition and potential downward pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on web page space; • the change in government policy that would curtail or restrict our online advertising services; • the acceptance of online advertising as an effective way for advertisers to market their businesses; • the development of independent and reliable means of verifying levels of online advertising and traffic; and • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for advertising, our ability to generate increased revenue could be negatively affected. Our growth in advertising revenues, to a certain extent, will also depend on our ability to increase the advertising space on our network. If we fail to increase our advertising space at a sufficient rate, our growth in advertising revenues could be hampered. Further, the increasing usage of Internet advertising blocking software may result in a decrease of our advertising revenues as the advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet if Internet advertising blocking software is widely used. We are relying on MVAS for a significant portion of our future revenue. MVAS revenues accounted for 41% of our total net revenues for fiscal 2006. SMS and IVR revenues accounted for approximately 64% and 17%, respectively, of our MVAS revenues for fiscal 2006. If users do not adopt our MVAS at a sufficient rate, or if our SMS or IVR revenues fail to grow, our revenue growth could be negatively affected. Our MVAS revenues declined significantly in 2006 from the prior year and may continue to decline in the future. Factors that may prevent us from maintaining or growing our MVAS revenues include: • our ability to develop new services that become accepted by the market; • our ability to retain existing customers of our subscription services; • our ability to attract new subscribers in a cost-effective manner; • competitors, including mobile operators, may launch competing or better products than ours; • changes in policy, process and/or system by China Mobile, China Unicom or other mobile operators, on whom we rely for service delivery, billing and payment collection, and who in the past have made sudden changes that have significantly impacted our revenues and may continue to do so in the future; and - 22 - Table of Contents • changes in government regulations, which could restrict our MVAS offerings, curtail our ability to market our services or change user adoption or usage pattern in a negative way. For example, MII has proposed to unify the dialing codes of each service provider (“SP”), which may increase the number of digits a user must input to subscribe to an SP’s MVAS, thereby, making the purchasing process more complicated. MII has also proposed to require mobile users, including pre-paid card subscribers, to register their real identity. Implementation of these proposals may lead to less subscription of MVAS and a decrease in new customers. In addition to the above, we are relying on new MVAS such as MMS, CRBT, Kjava and WAP to be a significant part of our future revenue growth for MVAS. However, the current market size for these new MVAS is relatively small and adoption rates are still relatively low for these services compared to SMS and IVR services. If revenues from these services do not grow significantly, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. With respect to MVAS, we rely on China Mobile, China Unicom and other operators for service delivery, billing and payment collection. Our MVAS offerings depend mainly on the cooperation arrangements with China Mobile and China Unicom. In addition, we have arrangements with China Telecommunications Corporation (“China Telecom”) and China Network Communications Group Corporation (“China Netcom”). We rely on the mobile operators in the following ways: utilizing their network and gateway to provide MVAS to subscribers; utilizing their billing systems to charge the fees to our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bill; utilizing their collection services to collect payments from subscribers; and relying on their infrastructure development to further develop new products and services. As of December 31, 2006, we offered our MVAS pursuant to relationships with 31 provincial and local subsidiaries of China Mobile and 22 provincial subsidiaries of China Unicom. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators choose not to continue the cooperation arrangements with us, our MVAS revenues and operating profitability could be materially and negatively affected. In the past, mobile operators have made sudden and unexpected changes in their policies, processes and systems, which have harmed, and may continue to harm, our business. For example: • In mid 2004, mobile operators began transitioning SMS to new billing platforms, which has resulted in added operational controls and procedures in areas such as customer subscription and customer billing. Such change has increased the difficulties for new user recruitment and the failure rate for fee collection from our SMS users. • In January 2005, China Mobile stopped its “MMS Album” service, which allowed users to retrieve their subscribed MMS messages from China Mobile’s web site when the subscribed MMS messages could not be successfully delivered to their mobile phones. With the termination of MMS Album, we are no longer able to collect fees from users when the MMS messages could not be delivered to such users’ mobile phones. • In March 2005, China Mobile began migrating MMS onto a new billing platform, which has resulted in added operational controls and procedures and, correspondingly, increased difficulties for new user recruitment and increased the failure rate for fee collection from our users. • In April 2006, China Unicom issued a new policy that sets price ceilings for usage-based and monthly subscription SMS. Such change may require us to lower our current prices on certain SMS services or discontinue offering these services completely. • In July 2006, China Mobile made significant changes to its policy on subscription-based MVAS, which included requiring double confirmations on new MVAS subscriptions as well as sending SMS reminders to existing monthly subscribers of SMS, MMS and WAP to inform them of their MVAS subscription and fee information. Certain provincial subsidiaries, such as Guangdong Mobile, one of China Mobile’s largest provincial subsidiaries, have begun to discontinue charging MVAS users monthly subscription fees unless the users reply to the SMS reminders and reconfirm their subscription. In addition, China Mobile’s provincial subsidiaries began - 23 - Table of Contents canceling existing WAP subscriptions that have been inactive for the prior four months and existing SMS subscriptions of users who have not successfully received more than three SMS messages during the month. These policy changes from China Mobile have reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers and increased the churn rate of existing monthly MVAS subscribers. • In September 2006, China Unicom began enforcing a policy of double confirmation on new MVAS subscriptions. Such change has significantly reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers. Our mobile operators could make further changes at any time, including, but not limited to, requiring SPs to use the mobile operators’ customer service and/or marketing service and charging for these services; requiring SPs to migrate their MVAS to an operator’s platform and increase the fees charged for using the operator’s platform; changing their fee structure or billing method in a way that would require us to delay the recognition of MVAS revenues from an accrual basis to when actual billing is received; implementing new billing rules, such as reducing MVAS fees that can be charged to users; disallowing SPs to bill certain inactive users and limiting the amount of MVAS fees that can be billed; issuing new rules on how WAP SPs are placed on their browsers, which significantly determines WAP revenues; and limiting the product offerings of SPs by working directly with content providers to launch competing services or giving exclusive rights to certain SPs to offer certain MVAS. Any change in policy, process or system by the mobile operators could result in a material reduction of our MVAS revenues. China Mobile, China Unicom and other operators have in the past increased the fees charged for providing their services and may do so again in the future. If they choose to increase such fees, our gross margin for MVAS and our operating profitability may be negatively impacted. Based on the arrangements with China Mobile and its subsidiaries, China Mobile has generally retained 15% of the fees for content value-added services we provided to our users via their platform for fee collection. In addition, China Mobile deducted transmission fees from our portion of the service fees. The amount of such transmission fee is charged on a per message basis and varies for different products and message volume. For both fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we received on average 75% of the amount we charged to our users from the China Mobile platform after China Mobile deducted the fees for collection and transmission. Based on the arrangements with China Unicom and its subsidiaries, China Unicom has retained approximately 20% of the fees for content value-added services we provided to our users via their platform if they charged us for transmission cost or between 21% and 29% if they did not charge us for transmission cost. For fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we received on average 65% and 69%, respectively, of the amount we charged to our users from the China Unicom platform after China Unicom deducted the fees for collection and transmission. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators restrict or disallow some or all MVAS to be charged on a monthly subscription basis, our revenues from MVAS could be severely impacted. We currently charge our users who have registered to be billed on a monthly basis even if they do not use the service in a particular month. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators do not allow us to charge monthly fees for users who do not use our service in a particular month, our MVAS revenues could be negatively impacted. For the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately 50% of our MVAS revenues were derived from monthly subscription products, which mainly consist of SMS, MMS and WAP. In the past, China Mobile and China Unicom have imposed penalties on MVAS providers for violating certain operating policies relating to MVAS. In some cases, they stopped making payments to certain SPs for severe violations. To date, the accrued penalties we have received have been insignificant in dollar amounts, but it is difficult to determine the specific conduct that might be interpreted as violating such operating policies. In the future, if China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators impose more severe penalties on us for policy violations, our revenues from MVAS and operating results may be negatively impacted. We are subject to potential liability and penalty for delivering inappropriate content through our MVAS. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination of our IVR service at the end of July 2004 was that we had provided inappropriate content to our mobile subscribers through our IVR service. The definition and interpretation of inappropriate content in many cases are vague and subjective. We are not sure whether mobile operators including China Mobile and China Unicom or the Chinese government will find our other mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the MVAS relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our revenues from MVAS may suffer significantly. - 24 - Table of Contents A portion of our MVAS revenues is currently estimated based on our internal records of billings and transmissions for the month, adjusted for prior period confirmation rates from mobile operators and prior period discrepancies between internal estimates and confirmed amounts from mobile operators. Historically, there have been no significant true up adjustments to our estimates. If there was no consistent confirmation rates trend or if there were continuous significant true up adjustments to our estimates under the new billing platforms, we will need to rely on the billing statements from the mobile operators to record revenues. Due to the time lag of receiving the billing statements, our MVAS revenues may fluctuate with the collection of billing statements if we were to record our MVAS revenues when we receive the billing statements. For example, if an operator decides to pay SPs based on a percentage of actual collection from users, as opposed to estimated collection in the past, such policy change may cause us to delay the recognition of these revenues until we receive the actual billings and/or until we have reliable information to make such revenue estimates. For the fourth quarter of 2006, approximately 32% of our MVAS revenues were estimated at period end. In the past, China Mobile has requested for resettlement of billings that were settled in previous periods and on which payments have been made to us. We have accrued for such credits to revenue based on a rolling history and the true ups between the accrued amounts and actual credit memos issued have not been significant. However, there is no guarantee that China Mobile or other operators will not request for resettlement of a previously received payment in the future. If China Mobile or other operators request for a resettlement of billings for a previous period at an amount significantly larger than our credit memo accrual based on historical patterns, our operating results, financial position and cash flow may be severely impacted. If China Mobile’s, China Unicom’s or other operators’ systems encounter technical problems, or if they refuse to cooperate with us, our MVAS offerings may cease or be severely disrupted, which could have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results. The markets for MVAS and Internet services are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than we do or currently enjoy a superior market position than we do. There is significant competition among MVAS providers. A large number of independent MVAS providers, such as TOM Online, Kongzhong, Hurray and Linktone, compete against us. We may be unable to continue to grow our revenues from these services in this competitive environment. In addition, the major mobile operators in China, China Mobile and China Unicom, may potentially enter the business of content development. Any of our present or future competitors may offer MVAS which provide significant technology, performance, price, creativity or other advantages, over those offered by us, and therefore achieve greater market acceptance than ours. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and current and new competitors can launch new web sites or services at a relatively low cost. Many companies offer Chinese language content and services, including informational and community features, fee-based services and email and electronic commerce services in the Greater China market that may be competitive with our offerings. In addition, providers of Chinese language Internet tools and services may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with large, well-established and well-financed Internet, media or other companies. We also face competition from providers of software and other Internet products and services that incorporate search and retrieval features into their offerings. In addition, entities that sponsor or maintain high-traffic web sites or provide an initial point of entry for Internet users, such as ISPs, including large, well-capitalized entities such as Microsoft (MSN), Yahoo!, eBay, Google and America Online Inc, currently offer and could further develop or acquire content and services that compete with those that we offer. Companies such as these may have greater financial resources and assets, better brand recognition, more developed sales and other internal organizations, more customers and more extensive operating histories. As a result, such companies may be able to quickly provide competitive services and obtain a significant number of customers. We expect that as Internet usage in Greater China increases and the Greater China market becomes more attractive to advertisers and for conducting electronic commerce, large global competitors may increasingly focus their resources on the Greater China market. We also compete for advertisers with traditional media companies, such as newspapers, television networks and radio stations that have a longer history of use and greater acceptance among advertisers. - 25 - Table of Contents In the areas of online games, search, instant messaging, WAP portal and user-generated content such as blogs, our other areas of focus for future business growth, there is intense competition from domestic and international companies. These include domestic companies each focusing on one sector and large, international companies that intend to expand their businesses in the China market. The online gaming industry, for example, is dominated by domestic online game operators such as Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited (“Shanda”), Netease and The9. The main competitors for search include Baidu, Yahoo!/Alibaba and Google, the competitors for our instant messaging service include QQ and Microsoft (MSN Messenger), the competitors in the WAP portal space include QQ, Kongzhong and Shanghai 3G, and the competitors for our user-generated content such as blogs include Baidu, QQ and Sohu and private companies, such as Hexun, BlogCN, Bokee and ChinaBlog in China. Many of our competitors have a longer history of providing these online services and currently offer a greater breadth of products which may be more popular than our online offerings. Many of these companies are focused solely on one area of our business and are able to devote all of their resources to that business area and to more quickly adapt to changing technology or market conditions. These companies may therefore have a competitive advantage over us with respect to these business areas. A number of our current and potential future competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and may be able to more quickly react to changing consumer requirements and demands, deliver competitive services at lower prices and more effectively respond to new Internet technologies or technical standards. Increased competition could result in reduced page views and unique visitors, loss of market share and revenues, and lower profit margins from reduced pricing for Internet-based services. Our investment in online games, search, instant messaging, WAP portal and services related to user-generated content, such as blogs, may not be successful. Online games, search, instant messaging, WAP portal and user-generated content such as blogs are currently some of the fastest growing online services in the PRC. We have invested and intend to expand in these areas. For example, we have developed our own search engine, we have acquired Davidhill Capital Inc. (“Davidhill”) and its instant messaging platform, and we have recently added SINA Blog, which offers users a range of blog services. Some of our competitors have entered these markets ahead of us and have achieved significant market positions. Our main competitors in online games, search, instant messaging, WAP portal and user-generated content include Shanda, Netease, The9, Baidu, Yahoo!/Alibaba, QQ, Microsoft, Shanghai 3G, Kongzhong, BlogCN, Hexun, Bokee and ChinaBlog. Our competitors in these areas tend to be more specialized in these specific markets and may have access to greater resources, which may give them a competitive advantage over us. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in these markets despite our investments of time and funds to address these markets. If we fail to achieve a significant position in these markets, we will fail to realize our intended returns in these investments. Moreover, our competitors who succeed may enjoy increased revenues and profits from an increase in market share in any of these specific markets, and our results and share price could suffer as a result. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are developing new products and services. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. If our efforts to develop, market and sell new products and services to the market are not successful, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. If we are unable to keep up with the rapid technological changes of the Internet industry, our business may suffer. The Internet industry is experiencing rapid technological changes. For example, with the advances of search engines, Internet users may choose to access information through search engines instead of web portals. With the - 26 - Table of Contents advent of Web 2.0, the interests and preferences of Internet users may shift to user-generated content, such as blogs. As broadband becomes more accessible, Internet users may demand contents in audio- and video-rich format. With the development of 2.5G (such as GPRS) and soon 3G (such as Universal Mobile Telecommunication Service) in China, mobile users may shift from the current predominant text messaging services to newer applications, such as multimedia messaging services, mobile commerce, music and video downloads and mobile games. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate, adapt and support new technologies and industry standards. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our profitability could suffer. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and may result in equity or earnings dilution. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and intend to continue to identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing business. In January 2003 we acquired Memestar Limited, an MVAS company, in March 2004 we acquired Crillion Corp., an MVAS company, and in October 2004, we acquired Davidhill, an instant messaging technology platform. Acquired businesses or assets may not yield the results we expected. In addition, acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the cost of identifying and consummating acquisitions, and integrating the acquired businesses into ours, may be significant, and the integration of acquired business may be disruptive to our business operations. In addition, we may have to obtain approval from the relevant PRC governmental authorities for the acquisitions and have to comply with any applicable PRC rules and regulations, which may be costly. In the event our acquisitions are not successful, our financial conditions and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively, which could harm our business. We have expanded rapidly by acquiring companies and entering into joint ventures. These new businesses and joint ventures provide various services such as MVAS, instant messaging and online games. We anticipate continuous expansion in our business, both through further acquisitions and internal growth, as we address growth in our customer base and market opportunities. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations as a result of acquisitions and overall internal growth requires significant management resources that our locally-based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. In order to manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve and implement operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Further, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with various other web sites, Internet and other online service providers and other third parties necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we are not successful in establishing, maintaining and managing our personnel, systems, procedures and controls, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our business and growth could suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel that are in high demand. We depend upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, many of whom are difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. We have experienced recent changes to our executive management team. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, editorial, finance, marketing, sales and customer service personnel, especially qualified personnel for our international operations in Greater China. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain the personnel we need to succeed. - 27 - Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets such as our web site. The Chinese government heavily regulates its Internet sector, including the legality of foreign investment in the Chinese Internet sector, the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet and the licensing and permit requirements for companies in the Internet industry. Because these laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and evolving, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the Chinese legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases may be cited for reference but have little precedential value. As a result, in many cases it is difficult to determine what actions or omissions may result in liability. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to China’s government regulation of the Chinese Internet sector include the following: • We only have contractual control over our web site in China; we do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services, including computer information services, MVAS or electronic mail box services. • In addition, uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet business in China, including evolving licensing practices, give rise to the risk that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, which may be disruptive to our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. • On December 11, 2001, the day China formally joined the World Trade Organization, the PRC State Council promulgated the FITE Regulations, which became effective on January 1, 2002. The FITE Regulations stipulate that the foreign party to a foreign-invested telecommunications enterprise can hold an equity share in such foreign-invested telecommunications enterprise that provides basic telecommunication services or value-added telecommunication services, ultimately not to exceed 49% or 50%, respectively. The Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating License were promulgated by MII on December 26, 2001 and came into effect on January 14, 2002 to supplement the FITE Regulations. However, there are still uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the FITE Regulations. • The numerous and often vague restrictions on acceptable content in China subject us to potential civil and criminal liability, temporary blockage of our web site or complete cessation of our web site. For example, the State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all Chinese government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any web site it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. • Because the definition and interpretation of prohibited content are in many cases vague and subjective, it is not always possible to determine or predict what and how content might be prohibited under existing restrictions or restrictions that might be imposed in the future. For example, in January 2005, SARFT, which regulates radio and television stations in China, issued a notice prohibiting commercials for MVAS related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations, effective in February 2005. This notice could also lead to further actions by other Chinese government authorities to prohibit the sale of such fortune-telling related SMS, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SARFT or other Chinese government authorities may prohibit the marketing of other MVAS via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Certain Chinese governmental authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern Internet activities. The areas of regulation currently include, without limitation, online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, online education, online gaming, online transmission of audio-visual programs, online health diagnosis and treatment, and the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet. Other aspects of our online operations, such as e-commerce or blog services may be subject to regulation in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with - 28 - Table of Contents these new regulations when they are put into effect and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. • The governing body of China’s mobile industry, from time to time issues policies that regulate the business practices relating to MVAS. We cannot predict the timing or substance of such regulations. Such regulations may have a negative impact on our business. • In July 13, 2006, MII issued The Circular of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services (the “MII Circular 2006”). According to the MII Circular 2006, since the FITE Regulation went into effect, some foreign investors have, by means of delegation of domain names and license of trademarks, conspired with domestic value-added telecom enterprises to circumvent the requirements of FITE Regulations and been engaged in value-added telecom services illegally. In order to further intensify the administration of FITEs, the MII Circular 2006 provides that (i) any domain name used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholder(s); (ii) any trademark used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by the carrier or its shareholder(s); (iii) the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecom carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecom services that the carrier has been approved to provide; (iv) a value-added telecom carrier shall establish or improve the measures of ensuring safety of network information. As to the companies which have obtained the operating licenses for value-added telecom services, they are required to conduct self-examination and self-correction according to the said requirements and report the result of such self-examination and self-correction to MII. Accordingly, the ICP Company submitted the Self-Correction Scheme of the ICP Company’s Multi-regional Value-added Telecommunication Business (the “Self-Correction Scheme”) to MII on November 17, 2006. Under the Self-Correction Scheme, (i) the domain name “www.sina.com.cn” which is mainly used by the ICP Company will be transferred from BSIT to the ICP Company and about one month will be spent in completing the transfer procedures at China Internet Network Information Center, and (ii) the trademark “SINA” () which is used by the ICP Company will be transferred from BSIT to the ICP Company and about 4-6 months will be spent in completing the transfer procedures at the Trademark Office of SAIC. According to the Notice of Acceptance of Transfer Application issued by the Trademark Office of SAIC to the ICP Company on December 26, 2006, the application for transfer of trademark is currently in the process of substantial review. Also, the ICP Company and BSIT have signed the Form of Application for Transfer of Domestic Domain Name. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies, the stated positions of MII and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling ownership. If the PRC government determines that our agreements with these companies are not in compliance with applicable regulations, our business in the PRC could be adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in Internet-related, MVAS and advertising businesses, including Internet access, distribution of content over the Internet and MVAS, and advertising via the Internet. Accordingly, we operate our Internet-related and MVAS businesses in China through several variable interest entities, or VIEs, that are owned principally or completely by certain of our PRC employees or PRC employees of our subsidiaries. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective companies and their individual owners, but we have no equity control over these companies. Such restrictions and arrangements are prevalent in other PRC companies we have acquired. - 29 - Table of Contents As discussed in the risk factor above titled “We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets such as our web site,” in July 13, 2006, MII issued the MII Circular 2006. Accordingly, the ICP Company submitted the Self-Correction Scheme of the ICP Company’s Multi-regional Value-added Telecommunication Business (the “Self-Correction Scheme”) to MII on November 17, 2006. Under the Self-Correction Scheme, (i) the domain name “www.sina.com.cn” which is mainly used by the ICP Company will be transferred from BSIT to the ICP Company and about one month will be spent in completing the transfer procedures at China Internet Network Information Center, and (ii) the trademark “SINA” () which is used by the ICP Company will be transferred from BSIT to the ICP Company and about 4-6 months will be spent in completing the transfer procedures at the Trademark Office of SAIC. According to the Notice of Acceptance of Transfer Application issued by the Trademark Office of SAIC to the ICP Company on December 26, 2006, the application for transfer of trademark is currently in the process of substantial review. Also, the ICP Company and BSIT have signed the Form of Application for Transfer of Domestic Domain Name. We cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements (including without limitation the requirements described in the MII Circular 2006), with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If we are determined not to be in compliance, the PRC government could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our web site, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance under or enforcement of related contracts. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Because PRC regulations restrict our ability to provide Internet content, MVAS and advertising services directly in China, we are dependent on our VIEs in which we have little or no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate these businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to maintain our China web sites despite their contractual obligation to do so. These companies are able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If these companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of the VIEs would always act in the best interests of SINA, especially if they leave SINA. Substantially all profits generated from our VIEs are paid to the subsidiaries of ours in China through related party transactions under contractual agreements. We believe that the terms of these contractual agreements are in compliance with the laws in China. The tax authorities in China have examined some of these contractual agreements in the past and have not raised any comment. However, due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in China, it is possible that in the future tax authorities in China may challenge the transfer prices that we have used for related party transactions among our entities in China. In the event the tax authorities challenge our VIE structure, we may be forced to restructure our business operation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If tax benefits currently available to us in China were no longer available, our effective income tax rates for our China operations could increase to 33%. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands where no income taxes are imposed. We have operations in four tax jurisdictions including China, the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan. For the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan, we have incurred net accumulated operating losses for income tax purposes. We believe that it is more likely than not that - 30 - Table of Contents these net accumulated operating losses will not be utilized to offset future taxable income in the future and hence we have not recognized income tax benefits for these locations. We do not expect that we will record any income tax provisions for our operations in the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan in the foreseeable future. We generated substantially all our net income from our China operations. Our China operations are conducted through various subsidiaries and VIEs. Pursuant to the PRC Income Tax Laws, our subsidiaries and VIEs are generally subject to Enterprise Income Taxes (“EIT”) at a statutory rate of 33%, consisting of a 30% national income tax and a 3% local income tax. However, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs are qualified new technology enterprises, and under PRC Income Tax Laws, they are subject to a preferential tax rate of 15%. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are Foreign Investment Enterprises, and under PRC Income Tax Laws, they are entitled to either a three-year tax exemption followed by three years with a 50% reduction in the tax rate, commencing the first operating year, or a two-year tax exemption followed by three years with a 50% reduction in the tax rate, commencing the first profitable year. To the extent that our VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we have to pay dividend tax on behalf of the employees when we try to distribute the dividend from these local entities in the future. The dividend tax rate is 20%. Based on our current operating structure and preferential tax treatments available to us in China, we expect our effective income tax rates to be between 10% to 15% for fiscal year 2007. Such expected effective rates are subject to change at any time if Chinese tax authorities challenge us on our current tax arrangements between our subsidiaries and VIEs. Over the longer term, if the Chinese government phases out preferential tax treatment for foreign investment enterprises or for new technology enterprises, our effective tax rates for the PRC operation can be increased to as high as 33%. Due to our operating and tax structures in the PRC, we have entered into technical and other service agreements between our subsidiaries and our VIEs in the PRC, pursuant to which our subsidiaries provide technical and other services to our VIEs in exchange for substantially all net income of these VIEs. We incur a 5% business tax when our subsidiaries receive the fees from the VIEs, which we include in our operating expenses as the cost of transferring economic benefit generated from these VIEs. We believe that the terms of such service agreements are in compliance with the laws of the PRC. Some of these agreements were reviewed by the tax authorities in the PRC in the past and no comments were made. However, due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the tax transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in the PRC, it is possible that tax authorities in the PRC might in the future challenge the transfer prices that we used for the related party transactions among our entities in the PRC. Restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us bind our subsidiaries and VIEs in China. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations in China other than our investments in our subsidiaries in China, including SINA.com Technology (China) Co., Ltd., Star-Village.com (Beijing) Internet Technology Ltd., Beijing New Media Information Technology Co. Ltd., Beijing SINA Internet Technology Service Co. Ltd., Beijing SINA Information Technology Co. Ltd. and others; and our VIEs. As a result, we depend on dividend payments from our subsidiaries in China for our revenues after they receive payments from our VIEs in China under various services and other arrangements. We cannot make any assurance that our subsidiaries in China can continue to receive the payments as arranged under our contracts with those VIEs. To the extent that these VIEs have undistributed after tax net income, we have to pay tax on behalf of the employees when we try to distribute the dividend from these local entities in the future. The dividend tax rate is 20%. In addition, under Chinese law, our subsidiaries are only allowed to pay dividends to us out of their distributable earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Moreover, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after-tax profit, if any, and up to 50% of their registered capital to fund certain mandated reserve funds that are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the convertibility of renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese renminbi into foreign currencies and, if renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenues in U.S. dollar terms.” If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through - 31 - Table of Contents these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Even if we are in compliance with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the Chinese government may prevent us from advertising or distributing content that it believes is inappropriate and we may be liable for such content or we may have to stop profiting from such content. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet or through MVAS that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that it believes is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any web site maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or via our MVAS, or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business could be significantly harmed. Because the definition and interpretation of prohibited content is in many cases vague and subjective, it is not always possible to determine or predict what and how content might be prohibited under existing restrictions or restrictions that might be imposed in the future. At the end of July 2004, our IVR service was temporarily terminated by China Mobile for violating certain operating procedures. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination was that we had provided inappropriate content to our mobile subscribers through our IVR service. We are not sure whether mobile operators including China Mobile and China Unicom or the Chinese government will find our other mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the MVAS relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our profit from MVAS will suffer. In January 2005, SARFT, which regulates radio and television stations in China, issued a notice prohibiting commercials for MVAS related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations effective in February 2005. This notice could also lead to further actions by other Chinese government authorities to prohibit the sale of such fortune-telling related SMS which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SARFT or other Chinese government authorities may prohibit the marketing of other MVAS via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are also subject to potential liability for content on our web sites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of China and report content that we suspect may violate Chinese law. It is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our web sites. The law of the Internet remains largely unsettled, which subjects our business to legal uncertainties that could harm our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, antitrust and characteristics and quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. - 32 - Table of Contents Moreover, the applicability to the Internet and other online services of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. For example, new tax regulations may subject us or our customers to additional sales and income taxes. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could significantly disrupt our operations. The Chinese legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you. Our contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities in China are governed by the laws of the People’s Republic of China. China’s legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, and therefore you may not have legal protections for certain matters in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us. We conduct our operations in China and a significant portion of our assets is located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon those directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the U.S. and many other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the U.S. or any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. We may have to register our encryption software with Chinese regulatory authorities, and if they request that we change our encryption software, our business operations could be disrupted as we develop or license replacement software. Pursuant to the Regulations for the Administration of Commercial Encryption promulgated at the end of 1999, foreign and domestic Chinese companies operating in China are required to seek approval from the Office of the State for Cipher Code Administration (“OSCCA”), i.e., the Chinese encryption regulatory authority, for the commercial encryption products they use; companies operating in China are allowed to use commercial cipher code products being approved by OSCCA only and are prohibited to use self-developed or imported cipher code products without approval; in addition, all cipher code products shall be produced by those producers being appointed and approved by OSCCA. In December 2005, OSCCA further released a series of rules regulating many aspects of commercial cipher code products in detail, including development, production and sales, which all came into effect on January 1, 2006. Because these regulations do not specify what constitutes cipher code products, we are unsure as to whether or how they apply to us and the encryption software we utilize. We may be required to register, or apply for permits with OSCCA for, our current or future encryption software. If Chinese regulatory authorities request that we register our encryption software or change our current encryption software to an approved cipher code product produced by an appointed producer, it could disrupt our business operations. Privacy concerns may prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising in the future and make us less attractive to advertisers. We collect personal data from our user base in order to better understand our users and their needs and to help our advertisers target specific demographic groups. If privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from - 33 - Table of Contents selling demographically targeted advertising, we may become less attractive to advertisers. For example, as part of our future advertisement delivery system, we may integrate user information such as advertisement response rate, name, address, age or email address, with third-party databases to generate comprehensive demographic profiles for individual users. In Hong Kong, however, we would be in violation of the Hong Kong Personal Data Ordinance unless individual users expressly consented to this integration of their personal information. The ordinance provides that an Internet company may not collect information on its users, analyze the information for a profile of the user’s interests and sell or transmit the profiles to third parties for direct marketing purposes without the user’s consent. If we are unable to construct demographic profiles for Internet users because they refuse to give consent, we will be less attractive to advertisers and our business could suffer. Concerns about the security of electronic commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications over the Internet in general has been a public concern over security and privacy, especially the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination sites and impede our growth. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could cause us to be less competitive. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriations of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may initiate litigation against us alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology, license fees could be substantial and may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to claims based on the content we provide over our network and the products and services sold on our network, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. As a publisher and distributor of content and a provider of services over the Internet, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we publish or distribute; the selection of listings that are accessible through our branded products and media properties, or through content and materials that may be posted by users in our classifieds, message board, chat room services, blog, video blog and other areas on our web site; losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information published by us, such as stock quotes, analyst estimates or other trading information; unsolicited email, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email or interruptions or delays in email service; and product liability, warranty and similar claims to be asserted against us by end users who purchase goods and services through our SinaMall and any future e-commerce services we may offer. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending any potential claims, even if they do not result in liability. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type and may not be adequate to indemnify us against all potential liabilities. - 34 - Table of Contents We have contracted with third parties to provide content and services for our portal network and we may lose users and revenue if these arrangements are terminated. We have arrangements with a number of third parties to provide content and services to our web sites. In the area of content, we have relied and will continue to rely almost exclusively on third parties for content that we publish under the SINA brand. Although no single third party content provider is critical to our operations, if these parties fail to develop and maintain high-quality and successful media properties, or if a large number of our existing relationships are terminated, we could lose users and advertisers and our brand could be harmed. We have recently experienced fee increases from some of our content providers. If this trend continues, our gross profit from online advertising may be adversely affected. In addition, the Chinese government has the ability to restrict or prevent state-owned media from cooperating with us in providing certain content to us, which will result in a significant decrease of the amount of content we can publish on our web site. We may lose users if the Chinese government chooses to restrict or prevent state-owned media from cooperating with us, in which case our revenues will be impacted negatively. In the area of web-based services, we have contracted with third party content providers for integrated web search technology to complement our directory and navigational guide, and with various third-party providers for our principal Internet connections. If we experience significant interruptions or delays in service, or if these agreements terminate or expire, we may incur additional costs to develop or secure replacement services and our relationship with our users could be harmed. A substantial part of our non-advertising revenues is generated through MVAS where we depend on mobile network operators for services delivery and payment collection. If we were unable to continue these arrangements, our MVAS could be severely disrupted or discontinued. Furthermore, we are highly dependent on these mobile service providers for our profitability in that they can choose to increase their service fees at will. We depend on a third party’s proprietary and licensed advertising serving technology to deliver advertisements to our network. If the third party fails to continue to support its technology or if its services fail to meet the advertising needs of our customers and we cannot find an alternative solution on a timely basis, our advertising revenues could decline. Underdeveloped telecommunications infrastructure has limited, and may continue to limit, the growth of the Internet market in China which, in turn, could limit our ability to grow our business. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Although private sector ISPs exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is accomplished through ChinaNet, China’s primary commercial network, which is owned and operated by China Telecom and China Netcom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of MII. The underdeveloped Internet infrastructure in China has limited the growth of Internet usage in China. If the necessary Internet infrastructure is not developed, or is not developed on a timely basis, future growth of the Internet in China could be limited and our business could be harmed. Our significant amount of deposits in certain banks in China may be at risk if these banks go bankrupt during our deposit period. As of December 31, 2006, we have approximately $246.7 million in cash and other bank deposits, such as time deposits and bank notes, with five different banks in China, which constitute about 68% of our total cash, cash equivalent and short-term investments as of December 31, 2006. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to twelve months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which will come into effect on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s concession to WTO, foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been severe competitors against Chinese banks in many aspects, especially since the opening of renminbi business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy of those banks in which we have deposits - 35 - Table of Contents has increased. In the event of bankruptcy of one of the banks which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to claim our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. We must rely on the Chinese government to develop China’s Internet infrastructure and, if it does not develop this infrastructure, our ability to grow our business could be hindered. The Chinese government’s interconnecting, national networks connect to the Internet through government-owned international gateways, which are the only channels through which a domestic Chinese user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this backbone and China Telecom and China Netcom to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the Chinese government has announced plans to aggressively develop the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed. In addition, we have no guarantee that we will have access to alternative networks and services in the event of any disruption or failure. If the necessary infrastructure standards or protocols or complementary products, services or facilities are not developed by the Chinese government, the growth of our business could be hindered. Our operations could be disrupted by unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters or unauthorized tampering with our systems. The continual accessibility of our web sites and the performance and reliability of our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain users, advertisers and merchants. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce our appeal to advertisers and consumers. Factors that could significantly disrupt our operations include: system failures and outages caused by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events; software errors; computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems; and security breaches related to the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers or other personal information. We have limited backup systems and redundancy. In the past, we experienced an unauthorized tampering of the mail server of our China web site which briefly disrupted our operations. Future disruptions or any of the foregoing factors could damage our reputation, require us to expend significant capital and other resources and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected if any of the above disruptions should occur. Future outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business. Future outbreaks of SARS, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems in China and surrounding areas, where most of our employees work, could negatively impact our business in ways that are hard to predict. Prior experience with the SARS virus suggests that a future outbreak of SARS, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems may lead public health authorities to enforce quarantines, which could result in closures of some of our offices and other disruptions of our operations. A future outbreak of SARS, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could result in reduction of our advertising and fee-based revenues. Political and economic conditions in Greater China and the rest of Asia are unpredictable and may disrupt our operations if these conditions become unfavorable to our business. We expect to derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the Greater China market. Changes in political or economic conditions in the region are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause the Greater China market to become less attractive to advertisers, which could reduce our revenues. We maintain a strong local identity and presence in each of the regions in the Greater China market and we cannot be sure that we will be able to effectively maintain this local identity if political conditions were to change. Furthermore, many countries in Asia have experienced significant economic downturns since the middle of 1997, resulting in slower GDP growth for the entire region as a result of higher interest rates and currency fluctuations. If - 36 - Table of Contents declining economic growth rates persist in these countries, expenditures for Internet access, infrastructure improvements and advertising could decrease, which could negatively affect our business and our profitability over time. Economic reforms in the region could also affect our business in ways that are difficult to predict. For example, since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system to emphasize enterprise autonomy and the utilization of market mechanisms. Although we believe that these reform measures have had a positive effect on the economic development in China, we cannot be sure that they will be effective or that they will benefit our business. We issued $100 million of zero coupon convertible subordinated notes due 2023, or possibly earlier upon a change of control, which we may not be able to repay in cash and could result in dilution of our basic earnings per share. In July 2003, we issued $100 million of zero coupon convertible subordinated notes due July 15, 2023, first putable to us on July 15, 2007. Each $1,000 principal amount of the notes is convertible into 38.7741 shares of our ordinary shares prior to July 15, 2023 if the sale price of our ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the notes reaches a specified threshold or specified corporate transactions have occurred. One of the conditions for conversion of the notes to SINA ordinary shares is that the market price of SINA ordinary shares reaches a specified threshold for a defined period of time. The specified thresholds are (i) during the period from issuance to July 15, 2022, if the sale price of SINA ordinary shares, for each of any five consecutive trading days in the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, exceeds 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share, and (ii) during the period from July 15, 2022 to July 15, 2023, if the sale price of SINA ordinary shares on the previous trading day is more than 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share. On July 15 annually from 2007 to 2013, and on July 15, 2018, or upon a change of control, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the notes for cash. For the three months ended December 31, 2006, the sale price of SINA ordinary shares did not exceed the threshold set forth in Item (i) above for the required period of time. Therefore, the notes are not convertible into SINA ordinary shares during the three months ending March 31, 2007. Upon a conversion, we may choose to pay the purchase price of the notes in cash, ordinary shares, or a combination of cash and ordinary shares. We may not have enough cash on hand or have the ability to access cash to pay the notes if holders ask for repayment on the various put dates, or upon a change of control, or at maturity. In addition, the purchase of our notes with our ordinary shares or the conversion of the notes into our ordinary shares could result in dilution of our basic earnings per share. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenues in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan use their respective local currencies as their functional currencies. The majority of our revenues derived and expenses incurred are in Chinese renminbi with a relatively small amount in New Taiwan dollars, Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Starting July 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese renminbi has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese renminbi appreciated approximately 2.5% and 3.4% against the U.S. dollar in 2005 and 2006, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The income statements of our international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the - 37 - Table of Contents translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of Chinese renminbi into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of Chinese renminbi into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, which is under the authority of the People’s Bank of China. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of Chinese renminbi in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenues may be in the form of Chinese renminbi, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Chinese renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, or to repay foreign currency obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operation. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements, including SFAS 123R, or taxation rules or practices, including FIN 48, may adversely affect our reported results of operations or how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Pursuant to SEC rules, we adopted the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”) starting January 1, 2006. SFAS 123R requires us to measure compensation costs for all share-based compensation at fair value and take compensation charges equal to that value. The method that we use to determine the fair value of stock options is based upon, among other things, the volatility of our ordinary shares. The price of our ordinary shares has historically been volatile. Therefore, the requirement to measure compensation costs for all share-based compensation under SFAS 123R could negatively affect our profitability and the trading price of our ordinary shares. SFAS 123R and the impact of expensing on our reported results could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, such as FIN 48, and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. This change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings when we must reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. As of December 31, 2006, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions were approximately $90.5 million. Recently, China Mobile and China Unicom each has made changes to its policy on subscription-based MVAS (as described in the risk factor above titled “With respect to MVAS, we rely on China Mobile and China Unicom for - 38 - Table of Contents service delivery, billing and payment collection.”). Such changes have reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers and increased the churn rate of existing monthly MVAS subscribers. During the third quarter of 2006, we assessed the goodwill related to our MVAS operation for impairment as a result of the policy changes and determined that the carrying amount was not impaired. We again reassessed the goodwill related to our MVAS operation for impairment in the fourth quarter of 2006, a practice we have done annually, and arrived at the same conclusion. The assumptions used for the assessments were based on the information available to us at the time. Further decline in the performance of our mobile operations and other factors may require us to record a significant charge to earnings if an impairment is determined at a future date. As of December 31, 2006, goodwill and intangible related to our MVAS operation were approximately $69.0 million. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings from the declines in fair value of our marketable securities if such declines become other than temporary or if we are unable to hold such investments until maturity. Our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale in short term investments and are reported at fair value with net unrealized losses recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity. The losses incurred on these investments are primarily related to changes in interest rates. We consider these declines to be temporary in nature. If factors arise that would require us to account for the declines as other than temporary or if we are unable to hold the investments until the carrying value is recovered, we may need to recognize the declines as realized losses with a charge to income. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including but not limited to our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services, content and products by us or our competitors; significant news events that increase traffic to our web sites; technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; demand for advertising space from advertisers; seasonality of the advertising market; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; mobile operators’ policies; governmental regulation; seasonal trends in Internet use; a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust our spending quickly; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the Internet, wireless, electronic commerce and the Greater China market. As a result of these and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our quarterly revenue and earnings per share guidance is our best estimate at the time we provide guidance. Our operating results may be - 39 - Table of Contents below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our stock price has been historically volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be subject to considerable daily fluctuations. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, the closing sale prices of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $20.91 to $29.35 per share and the closing sale price on February 23, 2007 was $35.94 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, new governmental restrictions or regulations and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for China-related and Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the nature of our income and assets, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to more burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis, and those determinations depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Although in the past we have operated our business and in the future we intend to operate our business so as to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment, you should be aware that certain factors that could affect our classification as PFIC are out of our control. For example, the calculation of assets for purposes of the PFIC rules depends in large part upon the amount of our goodwill, which in turn is based, in part, on the then market value of our shares, which is subject to change. Similarly, the composition of our income and assets is affected by the extent to which we spend the cash we have raised on acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the relevant authorities in this area are not clear and so we operate with less than clear guidance in our effort to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment. Therefore, we cannot be sure whether we are not and will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. In the event we are determined to be a PFIC, our stock may become less attractive to U.S. investors, thus negatively impacting the price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and SINA’s shareholder rights plan may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change in control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or from otherwise engaging in a merger or similar transaction with us. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue up to 3,750,000 preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if the Board of Directors issues preference shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Similarly, the - 40 - Table of Contents Board of Directors may approve the issuance of debentures convertible into voting shares, which may limit the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our existing shareholders would have the right to purchase ordinary shares from the Company at half the market price then prevailing in the event a person or group acquires more than 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares, or an additional 0.5% in the case of certain shareholders holding more than 10% at the time of the plan adoption, including Shanda and its affiliates, on terms our Board of Directors does not approve. As a result, such rights could cause substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 10%, or an additional 0.5%, as the case may be. Accordingly, the shareholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control or acquisition and could adversely affect a shareholder’s ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for the ordinary shares in connection with such a transaction. We have incurred accumulated deficits in the past and we may incur future losses. We had incurred net losses through the third quarter of 2002. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had retained earnings of $66.0 million and $26.1 million, respectively. We cannot be certain we will sustain profitability. If we do not sustain profitability, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 