Item 1A. Risk Factors Except for the historical information contained or incorporated by reference, this annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part I, Item 1 entitled “Business,” Part II, Item 7 entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report and in any other documents incorporated by reference into this annual report. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. We have not achieved profitability and we anticipate continuing losses, which may cause our stock price to fall. We have experienced significant losses each year since inception, and we expect to continue to incur additional losses as we complete the development of the VeraTag technology and commercialize products for oncology. We have experienced losses applicable to common stockholders of $23.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $287.5 million. We expect to continue to incur losses, primarily as a result of expenses related to: • research and product development costs, including the continued development and validation of the VeraTag technology and products based on that technology; • clinical studies to validate the effectiveness of VeraTag assays as tests for responsiveness of cancer patients to particular cancer therapies; • sales and marketing activities related to existing and planned products, including the development of a sales organization focused on the oncology market; • general and administrative costs to support growth of the business; • interest expense related to outstanding debt; • non-cash adjustments in our statement of operations to reflect changes in the fair value of our outstanding convertible debt; • higher market rent and capital and operating expenses as a result of additional laboratory and office space; and • non-cash adjustments relating to stock-based compensation. If our losses continue, our liquidity may be impaired, our stock price may fall and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. 24 Table of Contents New classes of drugs for treatment of HIV, including new drugs, such as Pfizer’s CCR5 antagonist, Selzentry, may not be successful. While Selzentry has been approved by the FDA, it may not achieve significant market adoption, other drugs may not be successful in clinical trials and may not be approved by the FDA, and the drugs may not require our testing services. If Selzentry is successful, and if additional drugs are approved by the FDA and require our testing services, we may not be able to adequately meet the demand for these services in all markets. Our testing services, including our Trofile Assay, have been used by certain pharmaceutical company customers, including Pfizer, in phase III clinical trials of the new class of CCR5 antagonist drugs. Pfizer’s CCR5 antagonist, Selzentry, was approved by the FDA in August 2007, for use in CCR5-tropic treatment-experienced patients. The FDA-approved label for Selzentry indicates that tropism testing should guide the use of Selzentry and we expect that the Trofile Assay will be used to select patients for Selzentry. However, if our test is not used to select patients for Selzentry, this could have a significant negative impact on our potential future revenues. With the approval of Selzentry, patient testing use of the Trofile assay could be an important source of future testing revenue for us. While the FDA-approved label for Selzentry states that tropism testing should guide the use of Selzentry, there is no guarantee that our testing services will be used by physicians. If such use does not develop then these drugs will not generate significant future patient testing revenues for us. If Selzentry is successful, we may not be able to deliver our testing services on a global basis in support of the drugs, which could damage our market position, adversely affect our business, and cause our revenues to decline. While there are a number of such new drugs in development, Pfizer’s CCR5 antagonist, Selzentry, has the most significance to our near term business as it has been approved by the FDA. Any difficulty related to Selzentry would have a serious adverse affect on our revenues and business. If safety or efficacy concerns arise related to Selzentry, or to the entire class of CCR5 antagonists, all use and additional clinical trials related to this class of drugs could be terminated, Selzentry may not remain on the market and additional drugs might not be approved by the FDA, which would abruptly and negatively impact our revenues. Even if Selzentry is successful, and our testing services are used to select Selzentry patients, there is no assurance that other drugs for treating HIV will be approved or, if approved, that our testing services will be required in connection with their use. The likelihood of additional drugs receiving FDA approval is subject to significant uncertainty and is determined by factors outside of our control. Difficulties encountered by our pharmaceutical company customers related to patient enrollment, drug performance, regulatory considerations and other factors could cause trials to be delayed or terminated or cause the drugs not to get approved. If such events occurred, our revenues would be adversely affected and could decline. Our revenues will be limited or diminished if changes are made to the way that our products are reimbursed, or if government or third-party payers limit the amounts that they will reimburse for our current products, or do not authorize reimbursement for our planned products. Government and third-party payers, including Medicare and state Medicaid programs, generally require that we identify the services we perform in our clinical laboratory using industry standard codes known as the Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT codes, which are developed by the American Medical Association, or AMA. Most payers maintain a list of standard reimbursement rates for each such code, and our ability to be reimbursed for our services may therefore be effectively limited by our ability to describe the services accurately using the CPT codes. From time to time, the AMA changes its instructions about how our services should be coded using the CPT codes. If these changes leave us unable to accurately describe our services or we are not coordinated with payers such that corresponding changes are made to the payers’ reimbursement schedules, we may have to renegotiate our pricing and reimbursement rates, the changes may interrupt our ability to be reimbursed, and/or the overall reimbursement rates for our services may decrease dramatically. We may spend significant time and resources to minimize the impact of these changes on reimbursement. If the coding available does not apply or cannot accurately reflect the testing we perform, such as in the billing of a new product, we may have to use an unlisted procedure CPT Code, or a “miscellaneous”code. This is the approach we have adopted for Trofile and the use of this code may delay our ability to be reimbursed and could cause interruptions in the future in reimbursement for our products, including Trofile. 25 Table of Contents Government and third-party payers are attempting to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare and are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of healthcare products. This could in the future limit the price that we can charge for our products or cause fluctuations in reimbursement rates for our products. Changes occur from time to time in the administration of reimbursement by public payers, such as the recent change in the local contractor for the Medicare system for reference laboratories in California, and such changes could cause interruptions or changes in previously established reimbursement arrangements. This could hurt our ability to generate revenues. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of new medical products, such as our Trofile Assay, and products that we expect to develop, such as our VeraTag Assays for oncology. Additionally, revenue recognition is delayed until reimbursement is established, on a payer by payer basis. If government and other third-party payers do not continue to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our testing products or do not authorize reimbursement for our newly introduced and our planned products, our revenues will be reduced. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and our revenues may decline significantly if any major customer cancels, reduces or delays a purchase of our products. Our revenues to date consist, and are anticipated to consist in 2008, largely of sales of HIV testing products. We have significant customer concentration and the loss of any major customer or the reduced use of our products by a major customer could have a significant negative impact on our revenue. Our revenue derived from tests performed for beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid programs represented approximately 29%, 21% and 22% of the Company’s revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, in 2007, 2006, and 2005, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated represented approximately 11% for each year, Laboratory Corporation of America represented approximately 11%, 6% and 6%, Pfizer Inc represented approximately 6%, 19% and 19%, and GlaxoSmithKline represented approximately 2%, 6% and 10% of our total revenue, respectively. Gross accounts receivable balances from Medicare and Medicaid represented 32% and 27% at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. It is likely that we will have significant customer concentration in the future. Following our entry into a Collaboration Agreement with Pfizer in May 2006, and the amendment of our services agreement with Pfizer, we expect Pfizer’s significance as a customer will grow. Although certain of our agreements with pharmaceutical company customers have provisions for minimum purchases, these provisions are generally subject to annual renewal or cancellation provisions. The loss of any major customer, a slowdown in the pace of increasing physician and physician group sales as a percentage of sales, cancellation or non-renewal of agreements with pharmaceutical company customers, the delay of significant orders from any significant customer, even if only temporary, or delays or terminations of clinical trials by pharmaceutical company customers, could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and our ability to fund operations from revenues, generate cash from operations or achieve profitability. We may be unable to perform under our collaboration agreement with Pfizer, which could adversely affect our business. Our collaboration agreement with Pfizer requires us to make our Trofile Assay available in the United States and to perform the assay for Pfizer in accordance with agreed upon performance standards. We are also obligated to undertake certain efforts to plan for, establish and maintain an infrastructure to support the availability of the assay in countries outside the United States designated by Pfizer. We have never been subject to breach remedies in the case of failure to meet performance standards like those in the Pfizer collaboration agreement, and we may be unable to meet them. The performance standards include standards regarding shipment times, assay turnaround times, percent of unscreenable samples and assay sensitivity. In addition, patient blood samples originating outside the United States will be included in the overall performance standards. We anticipate that under the collaboration agreement we will receive patient samples from countries and laboratories that we have not previously dealt with. Although individual sites and countries must meet minimum volume and performance standards before they are included in the overall performance 26 Table of Contents standard calculations, samples from these sources may not be consistently collected or maintained in accordance with our requirements, which could make a sample unscreenable or lead to unacceptable variability in the assay results. While we and Pfizer have agreed to exclude third party sample collection problems from the measurement of our performance under the collaboration agreement, there may be instances where we are unable to identify a sample collection problem, or where we and Pfizer disagree as to whether or not a performance issue is attributable to such a problem. In performing under the collaboration agreement, we will need to contract with third party laboratories outside the United States. We do not have experience in negotiating and managing relationships with overseas laboratories, and may have difficulty doing so. In addition, we anticipate that certain HIV variants will be more prevalent in patient populations in some countries from which we will be receiving patient samples under the collaboration, and with which we do not have extensive prior experience. Our assay may not work effectively with these variants, or may require additional enhancements. The foregoing and other factors may make us unable to perform under our collaboration with Pfizer, which could constitute a material breach of the collaboration agreement. Following certain uncured material breaches by us under the collaboration agreement, including our failure to achieve the performance standards, Pfizer will be entitled to establish its own facility, with our assistance, to perform the assay in support of its human clinical trials, and to perform the assay in respect of patient blood samples. For these purposes, we have granted Pfizer a license to use intellectual property rights and proprietary materials related to the assay, secured by a security interest in favor of Pfizer, in intellectual property rights and proprietary materials related to the assay. Pfizer would pay us a royalty for each such assay that it performs. If we materially default under the collaboration agreement, including failing to achieve the performance standards, and Pfizer becomes entitled to use our intellectual property and proprietary materials to establish its own facility, our business could be significantly and adversely impacted by this potential loss in product revenue from Pfizer. We are currently restricted by accounting rules in our ability to recognize revenue from activities under the collaboration agreement with Pfizer, impacting our revenue and profitability. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,” (“EITF 00-21”) revenue arrangements entered into after June 15, 2003, that include multiple element arrangements are analyzed to determine whether the deliverables are divided into separate units of accounting or as a single unit of accounting. Revenues are allocated to a delivered product or service when all of the following criteria are met: (1) the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; (2) there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item; and (3) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item, delivery or performance of the undelivered item is considered probable and substantially in our control. If all of the three required criteria under EITF 00-21 are met, then the deliverables would be accounted for separately, as performed. Otherwise, the arrangement would be accounted for as a single unit of accounting and the payments for performance obligations would be recognized as revenue over the estimated period of when the performance obligations are performed. If we cannot reasonably estimate when a performance obligation either ceases or becomes inconsequential, then revenue is deferred until we can reasonably estimate when the performance obligation ceases or becomes inconsequential. The Pfizer collaboration is a multiple element arrangement, including supply of the Trofile Assay in additional clinical studies (including early access programs in both the U.S. and outside the U.S.), supply of the Trofile Assay for clinical use outside of the U.S., reimbursement of costs for the establishment and operation of supply infrastructure outside of the U.S. and potential assistance to Pfizer in the establishment and operation of a second facility for processing of tropism assays. Under the guidelines of EITF 00-21, we have determined that the collaboration with Pfizer should be accounted for as a single unit of accounting due to the absence of established fair values of certain undelivered elements. Accordingly, we have deferred revenue under this collaboration until the earlier of establishment of fair values or completion of the deliverables. Additionally, related direct costs that are contractually reimbursable on a non-refundable basis under this collaboration have been deferred. We anticipate the application of these accounting rules will prevent us from recognizing any revenue under the Pfizer collaboration until the expiry or termination of the agreement, or the completion of certain deliverables, which we anticipate will take at least several years, if not longer, which would adversely affect our profitability. 27 Table of Contents Proposed new products based on the VeraTag technology could be delayed or precluded by regulatory, clinical or technical obstacles, thereby delaying or preventing the development, introduction and commercialization of these new products and adversely impacting our revenue and profitability. We are developing testing products for use in connection with the treatment of cancer patients, including our first VeraTag product, HERmark. These products will be based on our proprietary VeraTag technology and are expected to leverage our experience in patient testing for HIV. We expect that the development and commercialization of VeraTag assays for use in clinical trials by pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers could exceed one year. In addition, we expect to commercialize clinical assays for diagnostic use in patient testing, upon the successful completion of clinical validation through clinical trials, which could also exceed one year. The completion of these research and development activities is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including the extent of clinical trials required for regulatory and marketing purposes, the timing and results of clinical trials, inability to access tumor samples on which to conduct studies of the correlation between measurements by VeraTag assays and clinical outcomes, failure or delay in validating the technology in clinical trials, failure to have results of clinical studies published in peer reviewed journals, and failure to achieve necessary regulatory approvals. These factors make it impossible to predict with any degree of certainty whether we will be able to complete the development of commercial products utilizing VeraTag technology or if we are able to do so what the cost and timing of such completion may be. The FDA may impose medical device regulatory requirements on our tests, including possible pre-market approval requirements, which could be expensive and time-consuming and could prevent us from marketing these tests. In September 2006, the FDA issued draft guidance related to the regulation of certain kinds of tests, multivariate index assays (“IVDMIAs”) provided by CLIA labs. Following public comment, the FDA issued revised draft guidance in July 2007. The revised guidance was again subject to public comment and may be further revised before being finalized. The draft guidance states that it applies to those tests provided by CLIA laboratories and that are categorized as IVDMIAs where the values of multiple variables are combined using an interpretation function to yield a single patient-specific result that is intended for use in diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease. It is not clear which tests may be covered by the final guidance when issued, when such guidance may be issued or what form of approval process may be required, although in certain cases a full premarket approval may be required. There is no assurance that some or all of our current products and products in development, including those for HIV or for cancer based on the VeraTag technology, will not be covered by the final guidance, or by other FDA regulation. In addition, certain members of Congress have announced that they may introduce proposed legislation regarding laboratory testing, which may apply to current or future products. As our Trofile Assay has been used in phase III trials of CCR5 inhibitor drug candidates, we filed a master file with the FDA providing information about the specification and validation of the assay. We have had discussions with the FDA regarding this information and the use of our tests as a patient selection tool in such trials. While we have initiated commercial sales of our Trofile Assay as a CLIA based service for use as a patient selection tool for CCR5 drugs, such as Selzentry, there is no guarantee that the FDA will not seek to regulate such services. In the past, the FDA has not required that genotypic or phenotypic resistance testing for HIV conducted at a clinical laboratory be subject to pre-marketing clearance or approval, although the FDA has stated that it believes its jurisdiction extends to tests generated in a clinical laboratory. We received a letter from the FDA in September 2001, that asserted such jurisdiction over in-house tests like our HIV resistance tests, but which also stated the FDA was not currently requiring pre-market approval for HIV monitoring tests such as ours provided that the promotional claims for such tests are limited to its analytical capabilities and do not mention the benefit of making treatment decisions on the basis of test results. The FDA letter to us also asserted that our GeneSeq test had been misbranded due to the use of purchased analyte specific reagents, or ASRs, if test reports did not include a statement disclosing that the test has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Since 2002, we have 28 Table of Contents utilized in-house prepared ASRs in our products. The FDA indicated in those discussions that the focus of the letter was our genotypic tests and not our phenotypic tests. On August 8, 2007, the FDA issued final guidance regarding classification of HIV genotypic resistance testing devices as class II devices. We do not believe that this guidance impacts our genotypic products all of which are conducted in our clinical laboratory. The recent draft IVDMIA guidance described above indicates that genotypic testing, such as our HIV genotypic resistance testing, does not fall within the scope of that IVDMIA draft guidance. We believe that our phenotypic resistance tests, as direct biological measurements of drug response, do not fall within the definition of IVDMIA. However, there is no assurance that the FDA will not seek to regulate our genotypic and phenotypic resistance tests. Either as a result of a decision to produce future test kits, or as a result of FDA regulation or other regulation, of our laboratory testing business, we may become subject to Good Manufacturing Practice Regulation, or GMP, under the auspices of the FDA. Our facilities are not GMP compliant. If our operations are subject to GMP regulation, then we will be required to establish a GMP compliant facility, or to enter into a relationship with a third party manufacturer that operates a GMP compliant facility. We do not have experience with GMP compliance. GMP compliance, or entry into a manufacturing relationship with a third party manufacturer, would be time-consuming and expensive. We anticipate that if we are required to establish our own GMP compliant facility, or we elect to enter into a relationship with a GMP compliant third party, either process would require significant start-up costs and would significantly increase on-going overhead costs. We cannot be sure that the FDA will accept the steps we take, or that the FDA will not require us to alter our promotional claims or undertake the expensive and time-consuming process of seeking premarket approval with clinical data demonstrating the sensitivity and specificity of our currently offered tests or tests in development, including tests for oncology based on our VeraTag technology. If premarket approval is required, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain it in a timely fashion or at all; and in such event the FDA would have authority to require us to cease marketing tests until such approval is granted. In general, we cannot predict the extent of future FDA or other regulation, including congressional regulation, of our business. In the future, we might be subject to greater or different regulations that could have a material effect on our finances and operations. If we fail to comply with existing or additional FDA regulations, it could cause us to incur civil or criminal fines and penalties, increase our expenses, prevent us from increasing revenues, or hinder our ability to conduct our business. With the broadening of our business from infectious disease to oncology, we are a larger and broader organization. If our management is unable to adequately manage the company, our operating results will suffer. As of December 31, 2007, our total number of employees was 341. Our proposed testing products using the VeraTag technology and our commercialization infrastructure have not yet been developed, and the two will need to be integrated as a necessary part of the development process. We do not have experience in commercializing testing products for use in the oncology field. We face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees and addressing new markets, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs and the need to build a sales organization focused on oncologists. Difficulties or delays in successfully managing the substantially larger and broader organization could have a material adverse effect on our business and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We could lose key personnel, which could materially affect our business and require us to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel. Any of our key personnel could terminate their employment at any time and without notice. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our key employees. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 Table of Contents Charges to operations resulting from the possible future impairment of goodwill and intangible assets may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. If we are unable to successfully develop products based on our VeraTag technology, our financial results, including net income (loss) per common share, could be adversely affected. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, we have accounted for the merger with ACLARA as a business combination. We have allocated the total purchase price to the acquired net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger, and have recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill becomes impaired; we may be required to incur material non-cash charges relating to the impairment of those assets. The additional charges could adversely affect our financial results, including net income (loss) per common share, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our current products may not continue to receive market acceptance and our potential future products may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our future revenue. Our ability to establish our testing products, both current and potential, as the standard of care to guide and improve the treatment of viral diseases and cancer will depend on continued acceptance and use of our current testing products by physicians and clinicians and pharmaceutical companies, similar acceptance and use of our potential future products and the development and commercialization of new drugs and drug classes that require or could benefit from testing services such as ours. While certain testing products for viral diseases are established, others are still relatively new, and testing products for the treatment of cancer have not yet been developed. We cannot predict the extent to which physicians and clinicians will accept and use these testing products. They may prefer competing technologies and products. The commercial success of these testing products will require demonstrations of their advantages and potential clinical and economic value in relation to the current standard of care, as well as to competing products. Market acceptance of our products will depend on: • the success of Pfizer’s Selzentry and the adoption of our Trofile Assay to select patients for Selzentry ; • the development and commercialization of competitive products for the assessment of tropism related to the use of Selzentry and other CCR5 antagonists in development; • the availability of third party reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other public and private payers of healthcare costs; • the success of clinical trials of additional CCR5 antagonists for HIV in which our testing services are being used, whether those drugs get approved by the FDA and whether our tests are required or recommended after those drugs are approved; • our marketing efforts and continued ability to demonstrate the utility of PhenoSense in guiding anti-viral drug therapy, especially in relation to genotyping technology; • the effectiveness of Pfizer in developing the market and commercializing our Trofile Assay outside of the United States; • our ability to demonstrate to potential customers the clinical benefits and cost effectiveness of our VeraTag technology, relative to competing technologies and products; • the extent to which opinion leaders in the scientific and medical communities publish supportive scientific papers in reputable academic journals; • the extent and success of our efforts to market, sell and distribute our testing products; • the timing and willingness of potential collaborators to commercialize our PhenoSense and VeraTag products and other future testing product candidates; 30 Table of Contents • general and industry-specific economic conditions, which may affect our pharmaceutical customers’ research and development, clinical trial expenditures and the use of our PhenoSense, Trofile and VeraTag products; • progress of clinical trials conducted by our pharmaceutical customers; • our ability to generate clinical data indicating correlation between data recognized by VeraTag assays and clinical responses to particular drugs; • changes in the cost, quality and availability of equipment, reagents and components required to manufacture or use our PhenoSense, Trofile and VeraTag products and other future testing product candidates; • the development by the pharmaceutical industry of anti-viral drugs and targeted medicines for specific patient populations, the success of these targeted medicines in clinical trials and the adoption of our technological approach in these development activities; and • our ability to develop new products. If the market does not continue to accept our existing testing products, such as our PhenoSense products or does not accept our future testing products such as products based on the VeraTag technology, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations have increased as a result of the issuance of our convertible note to Pfizer in the principal amount of $25 million, our issuance of 0% convertible senior unsecured notes, in the principal amount of $30 million, and our entry into a credit and security agreement with Merrill Lynch Capital (subsequently acquired by General Electric), or GE, which individually or in the aggregate may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. As a result of the sale and issuance of $30 million principal amount of 0% convertible senior unsecured notes in January 2007, to a single qualified institutional buyer, our entry into a credit and security agreement with GE, in September 2006, which provides us with a revolving credit line of up to $10 million, and our issuance of a convertible note to Pfizer in the principal amount of $25 million in May 2006, we increased our total debt and debt service obligations. If we issue other debt securities or enter into other debt obligations in the future, our debt service obligations will increase further. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: • requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and • requiring us to reflect adjustments in our statement of operations to reflect changes in the fair value of the embedded derivatives in our outstanding convertible debt. 31 Table of Contents Our outstanding senior indebtedness to Pfizer and GE imposes restrictions on how we conduct our business, and if we fail to meet our obligations under this indebtedness, our payment obligations may be accelerated and collateral for our loans may be forfeited. In May 2006, in connection with our entry into a Collaboration Agreement, we and Pfizer entered into a Note Purchase Agreement, which we amended in January 2007, pursuant to which we sold to Pfizer a 3% Senior Secured Convertible Note in the principal amount of $25 million, which we refer to as the Pfizer Note. The Pfizer Note is secured by a first priority security interest in favor of Pfizer in our assets related to our HIV testing business. Under the terms of the Pfizer Note, we are prohibited from incurring certain types of indebtedness, from permitting certain liens on our assets, from entering into transactions with affiliates and from entering into certain capital transactions such as dividends, stock repurchases, capital distributions or other similar transaction without Pfizer’s prior consent. We are also subject to certain other covenants as set forth in the Pfizer Note, including limitations on our ability to enter into new lines of business. These limitations imposed by the Pfizer Note could impair our ability to operate or expand our business. In addition, in September 2006, we entered into a credit and security agreement with GE. Our agreement with GE provides us with a $10 million revolving credit line and grants GE a security interest over certain of our assets, including our accounts receivable, intellectual property used or held for use in connection with our oncology testing business, and our inventory. Under the terms of this agreement, we are also prohibited from incurring certain types of indebtedness and certain liens on our assets. If an event of default occurs under either of these loan arrangements, Pfizer or GE, as the case may be, may declare the outstanding principal balance and accrued but unpaid interest owed to them immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse affect on our financial position. A default under either our Pfizer or GE indebtedness would also trigger a default under the terms of our convertible senior unsecured notes, in the principal amount of $30 million. We may not have sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations. If a default occurs under the Pfizer Note, and we are unable to repay Pfizer, Pfizer could seek to enforce its rights under its first priority security interest in our assets related to our HIV testing business. If this were to happen, Pfizer may receive some or all of the assets related to our HIV testing business in satisfaction of our debt, which could cause our business to fail. Similarly, if a default occurs under our agreement with GE, and we are unable to repay GE, GE could seek to enforce its security interest in the assets it has secured, including our accounts receivable, intellectual property used or held for use in connection with our oncology testing business, and our inventory, which could also cause our business to fail. Billing complexities associated with health care payers could delay our accounts receivable collection, impair our cash flow and limit our ability to reach profitability. Billing for laboratory services is complex. Laboratories must bill various payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid, insurance companies, doctors, employer groups and patients, all of whom have different requirements. Our revenue derived from tests performed for beneficiaries of the Medicare and Medicaid programs represented approximately 29%, 21% and 22% of our revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, gross accounts receivable balances from Medicare and Medicaid represented 32% and 27% of gross accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Billing difficulties often result in a delay in collecting, or ultimately an inability to collect, the related receivable. This impairs cash flow and ultimately reduces profitability if we are required to record bad debt expense and/or contractual adjustments for these receivables. We recorded bad debt expense of $0.8 million, $0.4 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Among many other factors complicating billing are: • complexity of procedures, and changes in procedures, for electronic processing of insurance claims; • complications related to use of new or miscellaneous codes for new products based on new technologies; 32 Table of Contents • cumbersome nature of manual processes at payers for processing claims where electronic processing is not possible; • pricing or reimbursement differences between our fee schedules and those of the payers; • changes in or questions about how products are to be identified in the requisitions; • disputes between payers as to which party is responsible for payment; • disparity in coverage among various payers; and • difficulties of adherence to specific compliance requirements and procedures mandated by various payers. Ultimately, if such issues are not resolved in a timely manner, our cash flows could be impaired and our ability to reach profitability could be limited. We may encounter problems or delays in processing tests or in expanding our automated testing systems, which could impair our ability to grow our business, generate revenue and achieve and sustain profitability. In order to meet future projected demand for our products and fully utilize our current clinical laboratory facilities, we may have to expand the volume of patient samples that we are able to process. We will also need to incorporate the VeraTag assays into our laboratory processes. We will also need to continue to develop our quality-control procedures and to establish more consistency with respect to test turnaround so that results are delivered in a timely manner. Thus, we will need to continue to develop and implement additional automated systems to perform our tests. We have installed laboratory information systems over the past few years to support the automated tests, analyze the data generated by our tests and report the results. If these systems do not work effectively as we scale up our processing of patient samples, we may experience processing or quality-control problems and may experience delays or failures in our operations. These problems, delays or failures could adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our transaction processing, which could impair our ability to grow our business, generate revenue and achieve and sustain profitability. We have experienced periods during which processing of our test results was delayed and periods during which the proportion of samples for which results could not be generated were higher than expected. While we are continuing to attempt to minimize the likelihood of any recurrence of these issues, future delays, processing problems and backlog may nevertheless occur, resulting in the loss of our customers and/or revenue and an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face intense competition, and if our competitors’ existing products or new products are more effective than our products, the commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated. The commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market new testing products that are superior to, or are less expensive than, the testing products that we develop using our proprietary technology. The biotechnology industry evolves at a rapid pace and is highly competitive. Our competitors for our HIV resistance testing products include manufacturers and distributors of phenotypic and genotypic drug resistance technology, such as Tibotec-Virco, a division of Johnson & Johnson, Quest Diagnostics, Laboratory Corporation of America, Applied Biosystems Group, Visible Genetics, a division of Siemens, Viralliance, and other reference and academic laboratories. For our Trofile Assay, we are not aware of any assay that has been clinically validated for patient selection or used in any phase II or phase III clinical trial of a CCR5 antagonist. However, we are aware of efforts by third parties, including Quest Diagnostics and Laboratory Corporation of America, to develop and introduce assays using various gene-based approaches. We believe genotypic approaches to the identification of tropism are thought to be significantly less precise than our phenotypic approach. However, we cannot be assured that simpler, less expensive tropism tests will not be developed and commercialized. We also compete with companies that are developing alternative technological approaches for patient testing in the cancer field. There are likely to be many competitive companies and many technological 33 Table of Contents approaches in the emerging field of testing for likely responsiveness to the new class of targeted cancer therapies, including companies such as DakoCytomation A/S, Genzyme and Abbott Laboratories that currently commercialize testing products for guiding therapy of cancer patients. Established diagnostic product companies such as Abbott Laboratories, Roche Diagnostics and Siemens and established clinical laboratories such as Quest Diagnostics and Laboratory Corporation of American may also develop or commercialize services or products that are competitive with those that we anticipate developing and commercializing. In addition, there are a number of alternative technological approaches being developed by competitors. In particular, while our anticipated oncology testing products will be based on the identification of protein-based differences among patients, there is significant interest in the oncology community in gene-based approaches that may be available from other companies, which may prove to be a superior technology to ours. Each of these competitors is attempting to establish its own test as the standard of care. Our competitors may successfully develop and market other testing products that are either superior to those that we may develop or that are marketed prior to marketing of our testing products. One or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of different approaches. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources, market presence and research and development staffs than we do. In addition, some of these competitors have significantly greater experience in developing products, and in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals of products and processing and marketing products. Various testing materials that we use are purchased from single qualified suppliers, which could result in our inability to secure sufficient materials to conduct our business. We purchase some of the testing materials used in our laboratory operations from single qualified suppliers. Although these materials could be purchased from other suppliers, we would need to qualify the suppliers prior to using their materials in our commercial operations. Although we believe we have ample inventory to allow validation of another source, in the event of a material interruption of these supplies, the quantity of our inventory may not be adequate. Any extended interruption, delay or decreased availability of the supply of these testing materials could prevent us from running our business as contemplated and result in failure to meet our customers’ demands. If significant customer relationships were harmed by our failure to meet customer demands, our revenues may decrease. We might also face significant additional expenses if we are forced to find alternate sources of supplies, or change materials we use. Such expenses could make it more difficult for us to attain profitability, offer our products at competitive prices and continue our business as currently contemplated or at all. We may be dependent on licenses for technology we use in our testing products, and our business would suffer if these licenses were terminated or were not available. Historically, we have licensed technology from Roche Applied Science Division of Roche Diagnostics Corporation, or Roche, that we use in our PhenoSense and GeneSeq tests. We held a non-exclusive license for the life of the patent term of the last licensed Roche patent. We were notified by Roche that the license had terminated in March 2005, because the last licensed patent had expired. However, Roche advised us that additional licenses may be necessary for certain other patents and has offered us a license to these patents. We do not believe the additional licenses are necessary or useful for our operations. However, if necessary, we believe such licenses are available on commercially acceptable terms. As we develop and begin to commercialize our testing products in oncology, we may encounter the need for licenses to technology owned by others in order to commercialize these products. If such licenses become necessary, there is no guarantee that they will be available on commercially acceptable terms. 34 Table of Contents The intellectual property protection for our technology and trade secrets may not be adequate, allowing third parties to use our technology or similar technologies, and thus reducing our ability to compete in the market. The strength of our intellectual property protection is uncertain. In particular, we cannot be sure that: • we were the first to invent the technologies covered by our patents or pending patent applications; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; or • any patents issued to us will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. With respect to our viral disease portfolio, as of December 31, 2007, we have approximately 99 granted, issued, allowed and pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries, including 47 issued patents. With respect to our potential oncology products and VeraTag technology, we currently have approximately 77 granted, issued, allowed and pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries, including 27 issued patents. We have 105 granted, issued, allowed and pending patent applications in the United States and in other countries, including 79 issued or allowed patents, relating to the historic microfluidics business of ACLARA. The historic microfluidics patents and patent applications have been licensed to Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. We have received and will receive cash payments, including up-front and annual payments for the outlicense. In addition, we will receive royalty payments relevant to exactly which of the outlicensed patents are implicated. For some of the outlicensed patents, we will receive a flat royalty on all products for which Caliper grants a sublicense. On others, we will share sublicensing revenue based upon a formula determined according to the quality and quantity of Caliper patents implicated in the Caliper sublicense. Other companies may have patents or patent applications relating to products or processes similar to, competitive with or otherwise related to our current and planned products. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate, including biotechnology and information technology, is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in these industries are generally uncertain. We will not be able to assure you that we will prevail in any lawsuits regarding the enforcement of patent rights or that, if successful, we will be awarded commercially valuable remedies. In addition, it is possible that we will not have the required resources to pursue offensive litigation or to otherwise protect our patent rights. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and their collaborative partners upon commencement of a relationship with them. However, we cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection against the unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information or that adequate remedies would exist if unauthorized use or disclosure were to occur. The unintended disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Further, we cannot assure you that others have not or will not independently develop substantially equivalent know-how and technology. In addition, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised during the discovery process of any litigation. During the course of any lawsuit, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful defending any such litigation or cannot obtain necessary licenses, we may have to pay substantial damages and/or be prohibited from selling our products. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Companies in our industry typically receive a higher than average number of claims and threatened claims of infringement of intellectual property rights. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the fields in which we are selling and/or developing or expect to sell and/or develop products. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our products or technologies may inadvertently infringe. Further, there may be issued patents and pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we may become aware from time to time, that we believe we do not infringe or that we believe are invalid or relate to immaterial portions of our overall business. We will not be able to assure you that third parties holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seeking to enjoin our activities. We will also not be able to assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. Third parties have from time to time threatened to assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights or informed us that they believe we required one or more licenses in order to perform certain of our tests. For instance, we were informed in 2004 by Bayer Diagnostics (now a unit of Siemens AG), or Bayer, that it believed we require one or more licenses to patents controlled by Bayer in order to conduct certain of our current and planned operations and activities. We, in turn, believe that Bayer may require one or more licenses to patents controlled by us. Although we believe we do not need a license from Bayer for our HIV products, we held preliminary discussions with Bayer, in 2004, concerning the possibility of entering into a cross-licensing or other arrangement. However, in the future, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s patents. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit will take significant time, and may be expensive and divert management attention from other business concerns. Our business operations and the operation of our clinical laboratory facility are subject to stringent regulations and if we are unable to comply with them, we may be prohibited from accepting patient samples or may incur additional expense to attain and maintain compliance, which would have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. The operation of our clinical laboratory facilities is subject to a stringent level of regulation under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988. Laboratories must meet various requirements, including requirements relating to quality assurance, quality control and personnel standards. Our laboratories are also subject to regulations by the State of California and various other states. We have received accreditation by the College of American Pathologists and therefore are subject to their requirements and evaluation. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in various penalties, including loss of certification or accreditation, and we may be prevented from conducting our business as we currently do or as we may wish to in the future. If we do not comply with laws and regulations governing the confidentiality of medical information, we may lose the state licensure we need to operate our business, and may be subject to civil, criminal or other penalties. Compliance with such laws and regulations could be expensive. The Department of Human Health and Services, or HHS, has issued final regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, designed to improve the efficiency and 36 Table of Contents effectiveness of the health care system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions, while protecting the privacy and security of the information exchanged. Three principal regulations have been issued: • privacy regulations; • security regulations; and • standards for electronic transactions, or transaction standards. We have implemented the HIPAA privacy regulations. In addition, we implemented measures we believe will reasonably and appropriately meet the specifications of the security regulations and the transaction standards. These standards are complex, and subject to differences in interpretation. We will not be able to guarantee that our compliance measures will meet the specifications for any of these regulations. In addition, certain types of information, including demographic information not usually provided to us by physicians, could be required by certain payers. As a result of inconsistent application of requirements by payers, or our inability to obtain billing information, we could face increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in receipts and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenues. We cannot estimate the potential impact of payers implementing (or failing to implement) the HIPAA transaction standards on our cash flows and results of operations. In addition to the HIPAA provisions described above, there are a number of state laws regarding the confidentiality of medical information, some of which apply to clinical laboratories. These laws vary widely, and new laws in this area are pending, but they most commonly restrict the use and disclosure of medical information without patient consent. Penalties for violation of these laws include sanctions against a laboratory’s state licensure, as well as civil and/or criminal penalties. Compliance with such rules could require us to spend substantial sums, which could negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to build brand loyalty because our trademarks and trade names may not be protected. We may not be able to build brand loyalty in the new markets that we are entering and may enter in the future. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names such as the names PhenoSense, PhenoSense GT, PhenoScreen, GeneSeq, Trofile, HERmark and VeraTag may be challenged, canceled, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which we need to build brand loyalty. Brand recognition is critical to our short-term and long-term marketing strategies especially as we commercialize future enhancements to our products. In particular as we broaden our commercial focus from viral diseases to oncology and other serious diseases, we may not be able to establish any brand recognition and loyalty in oncology and other new markets that we may enter in the future. Clinicians or patients using our products or services may sue us and our insurance may not sufficiently cover all claims brought against us, which would increase our expenses. Clinicians, patients and others may at times seek damages from us if drugs are incorrectly prescribed for a patient based on testing errors or similar claims. Although we have obtained product liability insurance coverage of up to $6 million, and expect to continue to maintain product liability insurance coverage, we will not be able to guarantee that insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or that our coverage will be sufficient to protect us against all claims that may be brought against us. We may not be able to maintain our current coverage, or obtain new insurance coverage for our planned future testing services and products, such as planned testing service and kits for use in connection with the treatment of cancer patients, on acceptable terms with adequate coverage, or at reasonable costs. We may incur significant legal defense expenses in connection with a liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have coverage. 37 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation, which would be time consuming and divert our resources and the attention of our management. ACLARA, with which we merged in December 2004, and certain of its former officers and directors, referred to together as the ACLARA defendants, are named as defendants in a securities class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. This action, which was filed on November 13, 2001, and is now captioned ACLARA BioSciences, Inc. Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, also names several of the underwriters involved in ACLARA’s initial public offering, or IPO, as defendants. This class action is brought on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of ACLARA common stock from the time of ACLARA’s March 20, 2000 IPO through December 6, 2000. The central allegation in this action is that the underwriters in the ACLARA IPO solicited and received undisclosed commissions from, and entered into undisclosed arrangements with, certain investors who purchased ACLARA stock in the IPO and the after-market. The complaint also alleges that the ACLARA defendants violated the federal securities laws by failing to disclose in the IPO prospectus that the underwriters had engaged in these allegedly undisclosed arrangements. More than 300 issuers who went public between 1998 and 2000 have been named in similar lawsuits. In July 2002, an omnibus motion to dismiss all complaints against issuers and individual defendants affiliated with issuers (including ACLARA defendants) was filed by the entire group of issuer defendants in these similar actions. On February 19, 2003, the Court in this action issued its decision on the defendants’ omnibus motion to dismiss. This decision dismissed the Section 10(b) claim as to ACLARA but denied the motion to dismiss Section 11 claim as to ACLARA and virtually all of the other defendants. On June 26, 2003, the plaintiffs in the consolidated class action lawsuits announced a proposed settlement with ACLARA and the other issuer defendants. The proposed settlement, which was approved by ACLARA’s board of directors, provides that the insurers of all settling issuers will guarantee that the plaintiffs recover $1 billion from non-settling defendants, including the investment banks who acted as underwriters in those offerings. In the event that the plaintiffs do not recover $1 billion, the insurers for the settling issuers will make up the difference. Under the proposed settlement, the maximum amount that could be charged to ACLARA’s insurance policy in the event that the plaintiffs recovered nothing from the investment banks would be approximately $3.9 million. We believe that ACLARA had sufficient insurance coverage to cover the maximum amount that we may be responsible for under the proposed settlement. On August 31, 2005, the Court granted unconditional preliminary approval of the proposed settlement. On April 24, 2006, the District Court held a fairness hearing to determine whether the proposed settlement should be approved. The District Court did not reach an opinion on this issue, because on December 5, 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit issued a decision in re: Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation (Docket No. 05-3349-cv), reversing the District Court’s finding that six focus cases involved in this litigation could be certified as class actions. Plaintiffs filed a petition for rehearing and/or for en banc review of the Second Circuit’s decision, and the District Court indicated that it would not make any decision regarding the proposed settlement until the Second Circuit had decided whether to consider a rehearing. On April 6, 2007, the Second Circuit denied plaintiffs’ petition for rehearing, but allowed the plaintiffs to request that the district court certify a more limited class. On April 23, 2007, plaintiffs requested 30 days to report to the District Court on how they wish to proceed regarding class certification. The District Court indicated that a new class definition was a priority for the issuers’ proposed settlement agreement and scheduled a conference for May 30, 2007, to discuss this, as well as other issues. At this hearing the Court also indicated that the settlement, in its present form, likely could not stand, in light of the Second Circuit’s ruling. The Court continued the discovery stay for thirty days. During the May 30, 2007, conference the plaintiffs orally moved for revised class certification. The plaintiffs stated that they will file their opening brief on the motion to certify the classes in 120 days, and they will file any amended complaints in connection with their motion for revised class certification before June 25, 2007 (this deadline was subsequently extended by the parties until July 31, 2007, with the Court’s approval, on June 27, 2007). At the May 30 conference, the plaintiffs stated that they will seek mixed class and merits discovery in advance of their opening brief on class certification. The plaintiffs have also indicated that they may seek discovery from issuers in cases other than the six focus cases. 38 Table of Contents On June 25, 2007, the parties submitted a stipulation to terminate the settlement, which was granted by Court Order. On June 26, 2007, plaintiffs served a document request on all issuer defendants. On June 27, 2007, the Court held a conference with counsel for all three groups in the case. The parties agreed that the plaintiffs had until July 31, 2007, to file any Amended Complaints. On July 31, 2007, the plaintiffs requested, and the Court granted, an extension to August 14, 2007, for filing any Amended Complaints. On August 14, 2007, Plaintiffs filed Amended Master Allegation. On September 27, 2007, the Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Class Certification. Per the briefing schedule, responses were due December 21, 2007, and reply briefs were filed on February 15, 2008. Defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss on November 9, 2007. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and assignment of claims against the underwriters, and because the settlement has not yet been finally approved by the District Court, the ultimate outcome of the matter cannot be predicted. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making it likely that, in some future quarter or quarters, we will fail to meet estimates of operating results or financial performance, causing our stock price to fall. If revenue declines in a quarter, our losses will likely increase or our earnings will likely decline because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. Though our revenues may fluctuate significantly as we continue to build the market for our products, expenses such as research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative are not affected directly by variations in revenue. The cost of our product revenue could also fluctuate significantly due to variations in the demand for our products and the relatively fixed costs to produce them. In addition, we could experience significant fluctuations in our statement of operations for stock-based compensation. We will not be able to accurately predict how volatile our future operating results will be because our past and present operating results, which reflect moderate sales activity, are not indicative of what we might expect in the future. Additionally, our revenues may fluctuate due to the timing of clinical trials utilizing our assays. As a result, it will be very difficult for us to forecast our revenues accurately and it is likely that in some future quarter or quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Because our revenue and operating results will be difficult to predict, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance. In the event that we need to raise additional capital, or restructure existing convertible notes, our stockholders could experience substantial additional dilution. If such financing is not available on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to significantly curtail our operations or sell significant assets and may be unable to continue as a going concern. We anticipate that our capital resources, together with funds from the sale of our products, contract and license revenue and borrowing under equipment and accounts receivable financing arrangements, will enable us to maintain our current research and development, marketing, production and general administrative activities related to HIV drug resistance in the United States, together with the development and initial commercialization of the VeraTag technology, at least for the next twelve months. The commercialization of the VeraTag technology is expected to include the development of a testing service and possibly test kits for use in connection with the treatment of cancer patients. However, we may need additional funding to accomplish these goals. To the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet our obligations, including lease payments and future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development, commercialization and expansion of our technologies, including the VeraTag technology and products based on that technology. Our inability to raise capital would seriously harm our business and product development efforts. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. However, we cannot guarantee that additional financing, in any form, will be available at all, or on terms acceptable to us. If we sell equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may incur substantial dilution and any shares so issued will likely have rights, preferences and privileges superior to the rights, preferences and privileges of our outstanding common stock. In the event financing is not available in the time frame required, we could be forced 39 Table of Contents to reduce our operating expenses, curtail sales and marketing activities, reschedule research and development projects or delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our activities. Further, we might be required to sell certain of our assets or obtain funds through arrangements with third parties that require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would seek to develop or commercialize on our own. These actions, while necessary for the continuance of operations during a time of cash constraints and a shortage of working capital, could make it difficult or impossible to implement our long-term business plans or could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We may consider incurring additional indebtedness and issuing additional debt securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt or for general corporate purposes. As a result of recent subprime loan losses and write-downs, as well as other economic trends in the credit market industry, we may not be able to secure additional financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient financing because we are unable to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, it could reduce our research and development efforts and may materially adversely affect our future growth, results of operations and financial results, and we may be required to curtail significantly, or eliminate at least temporarily, one or more of our development programs. We may lose some or all of the value of some of our short term investments. We engage one or more third parties to manage some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that allows a range of investments and maturities. The investments are intended to preserve principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet projected cash requirements. Risks of principal loss are intended to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but the investments are not, in every case, guaranteed or fully insured. In light of recent changes in the credit market, some high quality short term investment securities, similar to the types of securities that we invest in, have suffered illiquidity or events of default. From time to time, we may suffer losses on our short term investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. If a natural disaster strikes our clinical laboratory facilities and we are unable to receive and or process our customers’ samples for a substantial amount of time, we would lose revenue. We rely on a single clinical laboratory facility to process patient samples for our tests, which are received via delivery service or mail, and have no alternative facilities. We will also use this facility for conducting other tests we develop, including VeraTag assays, and even if we move into different or additional facilities they will likely be in close proximity to our current clinical laboratory. Our clinical laboratories and some pieces of processing equipment are difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Our facilities may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. Earthquakes are of particular significance because our facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, an earthquake-prone area, and we do not have insurance against earthquake loss. Our insurance coverage, if any, may not be adequate to cover total losses incurred in a natural disaster. However, even if covered by insurance, in the event our clinical laboratory facilities or equipment is affected by natural disasters, we would be unable to process patient samples and meet customer demands or sales projections. If our patient sample processing operations were curtailed or ceased, we would not be able to perform tests, which would reduce our revenues, and may cause us to lose the trust of our customers or market share. We use hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business, and any claims relating to any alleged improper handling, storage, use or disposal of these materials could adversely harm our business. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We will not be able to eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We do not maintain insurance coverage for damage caused by accidental release of hazardous chemicals, or exposure of individuals to hazardous chemicals off of our premises. We could be subject 40 Table of Contents to damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use, or the use by third parties, of these materials, and our liability under a claim of this nature may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Concentration of ownership among some of our stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 30% of our common stock is beneficially held by our directors, our executive officers, and greater than five percent stockholder. Consequently, a small number of our stockholders may be able to substantially influence our management and affairs. If acting together, they would be able to influence most matters requiring the approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant corporate transaction. The concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control of Monogram Biosciences at a premium price if these stockholders oppose it. If our stockholders or convertible note holders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may fall. If our stockholders or convertible note holders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, or conversion of our outstanding convertible debt, the market price of our common stock may fall. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding options under our employee stock options plan to purchase 20.3 million shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 15% of our common stock outstanding on December 31, 2007, at a weighted-average price of $2.29 per share. Our outstanding convertible notes are convertible at the option of the holders into shares of our common stock. We registered both the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the 0% Notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the Pfizer Note. Accordingly, so long as these registration statements are effective, the common stock issued upon conversion of the 0% Notes and the Pfizer Note will be freely tradable in the public markets without restriction. The conversion of these notes into common stock could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares and substantial dilution to our stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including hedging activities by our convertible note holders, or the perception that such sales could occur, whether currently outstanding, or issued as the result of option exercises or conversion of convertible debt, might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Sales of a substantial number of shares could occur at any time. This may decrease the price of our common stock and may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for our stockholders to replace our management and may inhibit a takeover, either of which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our management, and may delay or prevent an acquisition or merger in which we are not the surviving company. In particular: • Our board of directors is classified into three classes, with only one of the three classes elected each year, so that it would take at least two years to replace a majority of our directors; • Our bylaws contain advance notice provisions that limit the business that may be brought at an annual meeting and place procedural restrictions on the ability to nominate directors; and • Our common stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings or act by written consent. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage changes of our management and 41 Table of Contents acquisitions or other changes in our control and otherwise limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We could adopt a stockholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” at any time without seeking the approval of our stockholders. Stockholder rights plans can act through a variety of mechanisms, but typically would allow our board of directors to declare a dividend distribution of preferred share purchase rights on outstanding shares of our common stock. Each such share purchase right would entitle our stockholders to buy a newly created series of preferred stock in the event that the purchase rights become exercisable. The rights would typically become exercisable if a person or group acquires over a predetermined portion of our common stock or announces a tender offer for more than a predetermined portion of our common stock. Under such a stockholder rights plan, if we were acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction which had not been approved by our board of directors, each right would entitle its holder to purchase, at the right’s then-current exercise price, a number of the acquiring company’s common shares at a price that is preferential to the holder of the right. If adopted by the our board of directors, a stockholder rights plan may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Our stock price may be volatile, and our common stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Our stock price has fluctuated widely during the last few years from a low of $0.72 per share in September 2002 to a high of $4.40 per share in January 2004. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common stock: • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • financing activities; • hedging activities by holders of our convertible notes; • litigation; • delays in product introduction, launches or enhancements, including delays in completing the development of the VeraTag technology and products based on that technology; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; • results from clinical studies; • adverse developments in the clinical trials of drugs under development by our pharmaceutical company customers; • adverse clinical or regulatory developments related to drugs, such as Pfizer’s Selzentry , for which our tests are used in patient selection or monitoring; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or our own products or products under development; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • changes in payer reimbursement policies or developments related to the potential reimbursement of new products such as Trofile; • limitations on the ability to recognize revenue from complex collaborations; and • economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis. A low or volatile stock price may negatively impact our ability to raise capital and to attract and maintain key employees. 42 Table of Contents We will continue to implement additional financial and accounting systems, procedures or controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements may increase our costs and require additional management resources. We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to comply with new reporting requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a favorable assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to reach an unqualified assessment, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to issue an unqualified opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting which could harm our business and could impact the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 