ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our company, business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We discuss material risks and uncertainties below. To the extent any of these risks and uncertainties materialize, our business, results of operation and financial condition would suffer. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating our company. We are reliant on our major customer AT&T, from which we derive substantially all of our revenue, and if AT&T does not continue to select our legacy router products to be deployed in its networks, our revenue and cash flow would be adversely affected. We have adjusted our corporate strategy to focus our efforts on a limited target customer base, particularly AT&T, and core product functionalities. As a result, we have grown increasingly reliant on the revenues generated by the sale of our legacy router products to AT&T, which accounted for 94%, 94% and 60% of our gross revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2004, Huawei and Nortel accounted for 27% and 12%, respectively, of our gross revenue. We expect that in the next twelve months substantially all of our revenue will continue to depend on sales of our products to our major customer AT&T. Our products compete in a multi-vendor environment for use in AT&T’s networks and our agreement with AT&T does not require AT&T to purchase any minimum level of product from us. We generally have limited ability to forecast the volume, mix or timing of orders from AT&T beyond the current quarter due to, among other things, supply chain dynamics as well as limited visibility on the network traffic and capacity demands on our customer. In addition, our business will be affected by shifts in the nature and architecture of our customers’ networks, including multi-vendor environments. Shifts by AT&T to networks or architectures less reliant on our core router products, as a result of technological changes in the industry, adoption of competitive or alternative products or solutions, or otherwise, would adversely affect our legacy core router business. While we continue to invest in targeted product development required by AT&T, we have limited the development of new products and features for our core routers, and as a result our legacy router products may not continue to meet AT&T’s technical requirements. The loss of or reduction in business from AT&T would materially reduce our revenue and cash flow, and adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. In November 2005, AT&T completed its merger with SBC Communications and in December 2006, AT&T completed its acquisition of BellSouth and Cingular. These developments give rise to new risks and challenges for our business as our major customer experiences changes associated with integrating new businesses and networks and as we face additional incumbent vendors. We will face additional competitive challenges in maintaining our position despite our established customer relationship. 9 Table of Contents We compete in the rapidly changing telecommunications industry and, as a result, our products could become obsolete. The market for high-speed core router products has been and is likely to continue to be characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product introductions. New products and technologies will emerge and existing products and technologies will further develop. These new products and technologies may reduce the prices for our core product functionalities or they may be superior to, and render obsolete, the legacy core products and services we offer and the technologies we use, and may consequently reduce the revenues generated by our products and services. It may be very expensive for us to enhance or upgrade our products and technology in order to continue to compete effectively, and we do not currently plan to significantly invest in new router development that has not been requested by our major customer. We currently depend on a limited number of products offered in the core routing market segment and our future revenues depend on enhancements to these products and their commercial success. We depend on the commercial success of our TSR, SSR and QSR products, from which we have historically derived all of our revenue and which are the only products that we currently offer. We offer these products in the core routing market. We must continue to enhance the features and functionality of our products to meet customer requirements. In addition, the failure of these planned product enhancements to operate as expected could delay or prevent future sales of our products. Our plan to restructure our business and realign our cost structure may not continue to produce the revenue or profitability results that we achieved in 2006, and, accordingly, our future results from operations may decline. We have restructured our legacy core router business to focus our efforts on our major customer, AT&T. We cannot predict the volume or sustainability of business from AT&T. We will monitor and adjust our operating expenses in our core router business in the future in line with our expectations of business volumes. In addition, the restructuring resulted in significant charges and a reduction in our staff and capabilities in key areas such as sales and marketing, product development and engineering and international operations, and as a result has limited our operational flexibility. Further, in connection with the restructuring we continue to evaluate our commercial relationships with certain of our existing customers, distributors and vendors, and the outcome of any such evaluation could have a negative impact on our business, financial position and results of operations. In connection with this evaluation we may face claims, costs or expenses beyond our current restructuring charges. New technology initiatives require a substantial commitment of resources and are not certain of ultimate success. New technology initiatives require significant capital expenditures, management attention and resources. Our commitment of resources and capital to a new technological concept means that those resources and capital are unavailable for other activities and operations. Our decision to launch a new initiative is based on our assessment that a significant opportunity exists in the marketplace; however, investments in new technology are inherently speculative and the market is unproven. Commercial success depends on many factors including innovativeness and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends, developer support and effective distribution and marketing. For example, our ability to realize revenue from the Soapstone initiative depends on, among other things, our timely release of the product. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • unanticipated engineering complexities; • claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property; • difficulties in hiring and reallocating existing engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; 10 Table of Contents • changing market or competitive product requirements; and • the timing and level of research and development and prototype expenses. There are no assurances that our new technology will receive sufficient consumer acceptance and if our new technology initiative does not develop and grow substantially and achieve profitability, it could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operating results, margins and profitability. Further, even if our products initially obtain market acceptance, we may not be able to effectively support the product or successfully respond on a timely basis to products introduced into the marketplace by our competitors. In order for our Soapstone solution to compete effectively, we must: deliver a technologically advanced product that is superior in meeting the needs of carriers; promote the market for that solution; and effectively market and sell that product to carriers and indirect channel partners, against established and emerging competitive vendors. We have reduced our sales capability as a result of our 2006 restructuring and, accordingly, we may face difficulties in appropriately marketing new technology initiatives such as our Soapstone product to our target customer base. Our products require a sophisticated and in depth sales effort targeted at key individuals within worldwide target end user customer organizations. Our future success in penetrating our target customer base is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of indirect distribution channels. Our inability to develop and manage our distribution channels could affect sales of our products. We expect that a significant amount of revenue from new technology initiatives will be through indirect channel sales. By relying on indirect channels, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, service ongoing customer requirements and respond to evolving customer needs. Recruiting and training qualified channel partners for our technology offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must scale our sales, marketing, and service organizations and the processes and procedures that support indirect channel relationships. Our failure to compete effectively in the core router business, particularly against Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks, and other established participants with greater financial and other resources than ours, could result in order cancellations, lost customer opportunities and price and volume reductions. The competition in the network infrastructure equipment market is intense. This market historically has been dominated by Cisco Systems, although we also compete with other companies such as Juniper Networks. Further, many of our competitors have greater selling and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial and other resources, more customers, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry. As a result, these competitors may be able to develop, enhance and expand their product offerings more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their offerings, pursue acquisitions and other opportunities more readily and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. In addition, established or emerging network equipment vendors may also focus on our target market, thereby further intensifying competition. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively with these competitors. In addition, we believe that understanding the infrastructure requirements of telecommunications carriers and other service providers, experience in working with these providers to develop new services for their customers and an ability to provide vendor-sponsored financing are important competitive factors in our market. We have limited experience in working with telecommunications carriers and other service providers. In addition, we do not currently anticipate an ability to provide vendor-sponsored financing and this may influence the purchasing decision of prospective customers, which may decide to purchase products from one of our competitors that offer such financing. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience order cancellations, lost customer opportunities and price and volume reductions. If this occurs, our revenues may decline, our gross margins could decrease and we could experience additional material losses. Our failure to stabilize our revenues and manage our costs would prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. Although we recorded net income in 2006, we had prior to 2006, incurred significant losses in each quarterly and annual period since inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $417.4 million. Although historically we have derived all of our revenue from our legacy core router products, we cannot be certain that we will increase or maintain our revenues or that we will generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. We plan to focus product development on our recent Soapstone product initiative, which is at an early stage and unproven. These efforts will continue to require significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which we will make long before any significant revenue related to these expenditures may be realized. We do not expect to recognize material revenue from Soapstone in the next twelve months. Accordingly, we will not likely maintain profitability unless our new product line achieves commercial success that outpaces a relative decline in our core router business. Our operating expenses are based largely on anticipated revenue trends and a significant portion of our expenses, such as personnel and real estate facilities costs, is fixed. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues and manage ongoing costs to maintain profitability. If we fail to achieve such revenue levels, material operating losses could result. In the future we may never achieve sustained profitability or consistently generate positive cash flows from operations. We have had and may continue to experience difficulties identifying, analyzing and consummating strategic alternatives, and any such alternatives may not lead to the achievement of desired results. In connection with our February 2006 restructuring, we are in an ongoing process of examining strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. The strategic options we may consider could include a variety of different business arrangements including, but not limited to: combinations with or a sale to another entity; the sale or spin off of certain assets; strategic partnerships and joint ventures; the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies or product lines; investments in new businesses; recapitalization, dividend or distribution alternatives; equity or debt financings; or other alternatives. Any strategic decision will involve risks and uncertainties and present challenges in implementation and integration. As a result, any such business arrangement may not lead to increased shareholder value. In addition, any strategic decision could lead to non-recurring or other charges. We rely on single or limited source suppliers for several key components. If we are unable to purchase these components for any reason or on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to our customers within the timeframes required and we may experience order cancellations. We currently specify and purchase through our contract manufacturers several key components from single or limited sources such as ASICs, optical components, field programmable gate arrays and other miscellaneous components. At times some of these components are subject to end of life notices, allocation and/or lead-times far in excess of 12 weeks. We do not have a long-term, fixed price or minimum volume of supply agreements with component vendors. Although we believe that there are alternative sources for many of these components, in the event of a disruption in supply, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or at favorable prices. We typically specify for purchase through our contract manufacturers all of our components, including our ASICs. From time to time and in end of life purchases, Avici may directly place purchase orders for stocking inventory. We otherwise do not generally carry significant inventories of components and have no guaranteed 12 Table of Contents supply arrangements with our vendors. If we are unable to purchase our critical components, or to provide for the production of our ASICs, at times and in volumes as our business requirements necessitate, we will not be able to manufacture and deliver our products to our customers in accordance with their volume and schedule requirements. If we are not able to satisfy the delivery requirements of our customers, which are difficult to forecast, they may reduce any future orders or eliminate our status as a vendor. We have worked with LSI Logic for many years to develop and manufacture several of our key proprietary application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, which are custom designed integrated circuits built to perform a specific function more rapidly than a general purpose microprocessor. These proprietary ASICs are very complex and LSI Logic is the sole source supplier for them. LSI Logic announced the discontinuation of a product technology used in several of Avici’s ASIC designs. In the second quarter of 2006, Avici executed an end of life purchase for these items to meet its anticipated production requirements for the foreseeable future. Changes in demand for our product in the future may render our inventory stocking purchases to be in excess or short of future requirements, and in the event we require additional supplies we may be unable to transition to an alternative vendor on a timely or cost effective basis. We depend upon contract manufacturers and any disruption in these relationships may cause us to fail to meet the demands of our customers and damage our customer relationships. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities. We rely on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products in accordance with our specifications and to fill orders on a timely basis. These contract manufacturers procure material on our behalf and provide comprehensive manufacturing services, including assembly, test and control. We have historically been dependent on two contract manufacturers, Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Celestica Corporation. We may not be able to effectively manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers, they may not meet our future requirements for timely delivery and quality, and our business terms, such as pricing and credit terms, may change in a manner not favorable to us. If we experience changing demand for our products, the challenges we face in managing our relationships with these manufacturers will be increased. Each of our contract manufacturers also builds products for other companies, and we cannot be certain that they will always have sufficient quantities of inventory available to fill orders placed by our customers, or that they will allocate their internal resources to fill these orders on a timely basis. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming and could result in a significant interruption in the supply of our product. If we are required or choose to change one or both of our contract manufacturers, we could experience a material loss in our revenue and significant damage to our customer relationships. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional inventory costs or experience manufacturing delays. Our contract manufacturers are not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any certain price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We generally provide forecasts of our demand to these manufacturers up to 12 months prior to scheduled delivery of product to our customers. If we overestimate our requirements, we may purchase excess inventory, which would consume cash by increasing our costs and may require us to take additional charges for excess and obsolete inventory. If we underestimate our requirements, we may have an inadequate amount of inventory, which could result in delays in delivery to our customers and in recognition of revenue or in increased costs incurred to expedite product delivery. In addition, the lead times for materials and components we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. We also may experience shortages of other components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products and delay our recognition of revenue. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory requirements which could affect our ability to manufacture and deliver product on a timely and cost-effective basis. 13 Table of Contents Our complex products may have errors or defects or may not interoperate within the networks of our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our products or costly litigation against us. Our products are technologically sophisticated and are designed to be deployed in complex networks. Accordingly, our products can only be fully tested when completely deployed in these types of networks. Despite deployment and internal testing, our customers may discover errors or defects in the hardware or the software, or the product may not operate as expected even after it has been fully deployed. In addition, our customers will require that our products be designed to interface with their existing networks, each of which may have different specifications. Our products must interface with many of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet the requirements of our customers. Because our products are critical to the networks of our customers, any significant interruption in their service as a result of defects in our product or the failure of our product to interoperate within our customers’ networks could result in lost profits or damage to these customers. These problems could cause us to incur significant service and warranty costs, divert engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly impair our ability to maintain existing customer relations and attract new customers. Although our existing and future customer contracts will generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, a court might not enforce a limitation on our liability, which could expose us to additional financial loss. In addition, a product liability claim, whether successful or not, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Further, if we are unable to fix the errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, we would likely experience loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share and our business and prospects would suffer. The unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors related to our industry, the markets for our products and how we manage our business. We have little or no control over many of these factors and any of these factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, the following may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock: • fluctuations and uncertainties in core router product and service demands from our major customer AT&T; • the sustainability of demand for the existing capabilities of our core router products; • our ability to manufacture and deliver product within short order timeframes; • the timing and size of customer orders for our products or cancellations of orders; • the timing and extent of product acceptance by customers; • the timing and level of research and development and prototype expenses; • the timing of new product launches; • the distribution channels through which we sell our products; • the timing and impact of special charges such as the restructuring program enacted in February 2006; • general economic conditions; and • conditions specific to the telecommunications industry, including uncertainty related to consolidation. We plan to invest in research and development and, in the future, sales and marketing and customer support related to new product initiatives, as well as research and development in selective enhancements to our legacy core router products. Our operating expenses will largely be based on revenue trends and a high percentage of 14 Table of Contents our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations for any of the reasons set forth above, or for any other reason, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Accordingly, this revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our expected operating results and could result in material operating losses for that quarter, which could result in significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. You should not rely on our results or growth for any single quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. A vendor’s leadership position in our market may allow that vendor to set de facto industry standards, which could create technical challenges to our ability to sell our products. In developing our products, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions about the standards that may be adopted by our customers and competitors. If the standards adopted are different from those that we have chosen to support, market acceptance of our products would likely be significantly reduced and our business will be seriously harmed. Customer requirements are likely to evolve, and we will not retain our target customer base or attract new customers if we do not anticipate and meet specific customer requirements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and manage key customer relationships in order to develop Soapstone products and product enhancements that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our target base of customers. Our current customers may require product features and capabilities that our core legacy products do not have. We must effectively anticipate and adapt on a timely basis to customer requirements and offer products that meet those demands in a timely manner. Our long-term strategy is to focus on Soapstone which we believe is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in the market. Our failure to develop products that satisfy customer requirements would seriously harm our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products. In addition, we may experience design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development or introduction of new products and enhancements. Material delays in introducing new products may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors, which could seriously harm our business. Our ability to develop, market and support products depends on retaining our management team and attracting and retaining highly qualified individuals in our industry. Our future success depends on the continued services of our management team, which has significant experience with the data communications, telecommunications and Internet infrastructure markets, in addition to relationships with many of the communications service providers and business partners that we currently or may in the future rely on in implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of our management team or any key executive could have a significant detrimental effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to selectively identify, hire as needed, train, assimilate and retain highly qualified engineering, sales and marketing, managerial, support and other personnel. The demand and competition for qualified personnel is high, and we have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, we have experienced difficulty in hiring qualified engineering personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers, could delay product development, particularly with respect to new product initiatives and negatively impact our ability to sell our products. 15 Table of Contents Our office lease expires in 2007 and, as a result, we will incur costs associated with negotiating a new or renewed lease, as well as possible relocation costs. We lease office space, used as our headquarters and primary business location, at 101 Billerica Avenue, North Billerica, Massachusetts. Our current lease expires in the second half of 2007. As a result, we have engaged a real estate agent to assist us in considering our options. We anticipate that we will lease a new facility in the same general vicinity as our current location, but which will nevertheless require us to relocate our operations and incur relocation costs. The process of evaluating our options, negotiating a new or renewed lease, and managing a relocation will require expense, time and attention from members of management. Further, if we elect to lease a new facility, we will incur related expenses and will encounter disruption of operations related to the move, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with international sales and operations that could impair our ability to grow our revenues abroad. International activities involve risks that we do not have to address in the domestic market, such as difficulties in managing foreign operations, different regulatory requirements and different technology standards. We currently do not have significant foreign operations or sales capabilities. Any future international sales will be subject to, among other things, currency exchange rate fluctuation risks. As a result, increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies would cause our products to become less competitive in international markets and could result in limited, if any, sales and profitability. To the extent that we denominate sales in foreign currencies or incur significant operating expenses denominated in local currencies, we will be exposed to increased risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations. We may experience difficulty in identifying, acquiring and integrating acquisition candidates. We may acquire complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. We may not be able to identify and acquire suitable candidates on reasonable terms. We compete for acquisition candidates with other companies that have substantially greater financial, management and other resources than we do. If we do complete an acquisition, then we may face numerous business risks. These risks include difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, technologies, personnel and products, difficulties in managing geographically dispersed and international operations; difficulties in assimilating diverse financial reporting and management information systems; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the potential disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors or suppliers. We may finance acquisitions by issuing shares of our common stock, which could dilute our existing stockholders. We may also use cash or incur additional debt to pay for these acquisitions. In addition, we may be required to expend substantial funds to develop acquired technologies. We may also be required to amortize significant intangible assets in connection with future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, and we may be subject to infringement claims that could subject us to significant liability and divert the time and attention of our management. We regard our products and technology as proprietary. We attempt to protect them through a combination of patent protection, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions on disclosure and other methods. These methods may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights. We presently have 20 patents granted in the United States and over 50 United States and foreign patent applications pending. We cannot be certain that patents will be granted based on these or any other applications, or that, even if issued, the patents will adequately protect our technology. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and customers, and generally control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise misappropriate and use our products or technology without authorization, particularly in foreign countries where 16 Table of Contents the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, or to develop similar technology independently. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business. We also license technologies from third parties, some of which we license without indemnification from the licensor for infringement of third party intellectual property rights. We are continuing to develop and acquire additional intellectual property. Although we have not been involved in any litigation relating to our intellectual property, including intellectual property that we license from third parties, we expect that participants in our markets will be increasingly subject to infringement claims. Third parties may try to claim our products infringe their intellectual property. Any claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and/or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, in which case we would have to cease selling, incorporating or using the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property and expend substantial amounts of resources to redesign our products. If we are forced to enter into unacceptable royalty or licensing agreements or to redesign our products, our business and prospects would suffer. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain additional financing for our future capital needs. We expect our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will meet our normal working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. We may need to raise additional funding at that time or earlier if we decide to undertake more rapid expansion, including acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, or if we increase our research and development or other efforts, or in connection with any strategic alternative. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may obtain additional financing by issuing shares of our common stock, which could dilute our existing stockholders, or through the incurrence of debt, which could affect our cash flows and flexibility with respect to future operations, financings and acquisitions. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or respond appropriately to competitive pressures, which would seriously harm our business. The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. The price at which our common stock trades is highly volatile and fluctuates substantially. Given the limited volume of our product sales and our limited number of customers, the announcement of any significant customer developments, awards or losses or of any significant partnerships or acquisitions by us or our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, the stock market in general has, and technology companies in particular have, from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Those companies, like us, that are involved in rapidly changing technology markets are particularly subject to this risk. Securities class action lawsuits have been filed against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The consolidated amended complaint generally alleges that our offering documents failed to disclose certain underwriting fees and commissions and underwriter tie-ins and other arrangements with certain customers of the underwriters that impacted the price of our common stock in the after-market. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages. We believe that the claims in this case against us lack merit, and we have defended the litigation vigorously. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of this securities litigation. Any conclusion of this litigation in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of 17 Table of Contents operations and cash flows. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of this litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that additional securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. The market price of our common stock might decline due to future non-cash charges to earnings. As of January 1, 2006, we account for employee stock-based compensation costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). Our adoption of this SFAS 123R resulted in material non-cash charges to our earnings and we expect such non-cash charges to continue to have a material impact on future earnings. It may not be possible to calculate the future impact with respect to stock-based grants as the amount of these charges to earnings fluctuates with the price of our common stock and other factors. It is possible that some investors might consider this impact on operating results to be material, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our estimates and judgments related to critical accounting policies could be inaccurate. We consider accounting policies related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, warranty liabilities, long-lived assets, restructuring and impairment charges and stock-based compensation to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our financial results. Management makes certain significant accounting judgments and estimates related to these policies. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods if our accounting judgments and estimates related to these critical accounting policies prove to be inadequate. Any failure to maintain effective internal information systems or to implement effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely impact our business. We must continue to maintain our internal information systems in order to manage our business operations. We must also maintain internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and intentional misrepresentations. Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable assurance that all control objectives are met. Some of the potential risks involved could include but are not limited to management judgments, simple errors or mistakes, willful misconduct regarding controls or misinterpretation. There is no guarantee that existing controls will prevent or detect all material issues or that existing controls will be effective in future conditions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial results. Under Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with this legislation will require management’s attention and resources and will cause us to continue to incur significant expense. Management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Should we determine that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected or the price of our common stock may decline. Our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Delaware law could inhibit a takeover that some stockholders may consider favorable. There are provisions of Delaware law and our charter, by-laws, and Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to some of our stockholders by providing them the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the market price. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be affected. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 