Risk Factors Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred losses in the past, and may incur losses in the future While we were profitable in 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred losses in 2002 and 2001. We had net income of approximately $9.3 million in 2005, $13.8 million in 2004 and $6.4 million in 2003. We incurred net losses of approximately $2.1 million in 2002 and $7.6 million in 2001. We will need to generate increased revenues as well as manage our costs to maintain and increase profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain and/or increase profitability. Our gross margin is currently approximately 81%. As a result, any decrease in sales may have a significant effect on our profitability. Our revenues may not grow or continue at their current level. For example, the growth rate in 2004 compared to 2003 was approximately 25%, whereas the growth rate in 2005 compared to 2004 was approximately 13%. In addition, our operating expenses may increase. Our decision to increase operating expenses and the scope of such increase will depend upon several factors, including the market situation and the results that our past expenditures produce. We may make additional expenditures in anticipation of generating higher revenues, which we may not realize, if at all, until some time in the future. If our revenues do not increase as anticipated, or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than revenues, we may not be profitable or, if we are profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 6 Our net profit for 2005 derives also from financial income in an amount of approximately $5.2 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate financial income in the future or that such financial income will remain at the same level. For example, in December 2005 we acquired the business of V-Secure Technologies Inc., or V-Secure, for a total amount of $15 million, of which $9 million was paid in December 2005 and $6 million may be paid during the first half of 2006, subject to meeting a certain milestone. The amount spent on the acquisition, as well as any additional investments we make in the future, will reduce our level of cash and consequently reduce the amount of financial income derived in the future. Volatility of the market for our products, including deterioration of the economy worldwide, slow-down in expenditures by service providers, e-commerce businesses and other trends in our industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is dependent on current and anticipated market demand for our products. Beginning in late 2000, market demand was negatively impacted by the general deterioration of the global economy and the economic uncertainties in the telecommunications market. These conditions, and the uncertainties surrounding the growth rates of economies worldwide, resulted in a curtailment of capital investment by companies in our target markets and caused our revenue growth to increase at a significantly slower pace during 2001 and 2002 relative to prior years. According to our estimates, in 2003, the market remained substantially flat and in 2004 and 2005 there was slight improvement in the market. Due to the past volatility of the market it is difficult to predict the conditions of our market going forward. In addition, we believe that market conditions could cause our customers and potential customers to be more conservative in planning their spending. If the global conditions deteriorate, and companies in our target markets continue to reduce capital expenditures, we may experience a reduction in sales, as well as downward pressure on the price of our products. In addition, if the market will be flat and customers experience low visibility we may not be able to increase our sales. Each of the above scenarios would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance because of the factors discussed below and seasonal fluctuations in our sales. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: · Our limited order backlog; · Our dependence upon our suppliers; · Our need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products; and · The long sales cycles of our products. As a result of the foregoing our results in any quarter may also fall below projected results. In addition, our quarterly operating results have been, and are likely to continue to be, influenced by seasonal fluctuations in our sales. Because our sales have grown significantly since inception, these fluctuations may not be apparent from our historical financial statements. However, we believe that our sales and sales growth have been, and will continue to be, affected by the seasonal purchasing patterns of some of our customers. For example, we believe that our sales may be reduced from the levels which we might otherwise have been able to attain during the third quarter of 2006 because of the slowdown in business activities during the summer months in Europe, and that our sales during the fourth quarter of 2006 may be increased because some of our customers tend to make greater capital expenditures towards the end of their own fiscal years. Because of these anticipated fluctuations, our sales and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of future performance and it may be difficult for investors to properly evaluate our prospects. 7 If the market for Application Delivery solutions does not continue to develop, we will not be able to sell enough of our products to maintain profitability. The Application Delivery market in which we operate is rapidly evolving and we cannot assure you that it will continue to develop and grow or that our products and technology will keep pace with these changes. Market acceptance of Application Delivery solutions is not proven and may be inhibited by, among other factors, a lack of anticipated congestion and strain on existing network infrastructures and the availability of alternative solutions. If demand for Application Delivery solutions does not continue to grow, we may not be able to sell enough of our products to maintain and increase profitability. Competition in the market for Application Delivery solutions is intense. As a result, we may lose market share and we may be unable to maintain profitability. The Application Delivery market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We may lose market share if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors. Our principal competitors in the Application Delivery solutions market include: Cisco Systems, Inc., Nortel Networks Corp., F5 Networks, Inc., Citrix Systems, Inc. and Juniper Networks Inc. In addition, we face competitors in the Application Security space, with respect to our Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS). Such competitors include Internet Security Systems, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., 3Com Systems, Inc. and McAfee, Inc. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter the market. Larger companies with substantial resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing Application Delivery solutions and emerge as significant competitors. For example, Juniper Networks Inc. became a competitor in the application delivery market by acquiring Peribit Networks Inc. and Redline Networks Inc., and Citrix Systems Inc, became a competitor in the Application Delivery market by acquiring Netscaler Inc. Competition may result in lower prices or reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover our costs, which may impair our ability to maintain and increase profitability. Furthermore, the dynamic market environment, which is demonstrated by the above acquisitions, poses a challenge in predicting market trends and expected growth. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. These competitors may be able to: · respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements; · benefit from greater economies of scale; · offer more aggressive pricing; · devote greater resources to the promotion of their products; and/or · bundle their products or incorporate an Application Delivery component into existing products in a manner that renders our products partially or fully obsolete. We must develop new products and enhancements to existing products to remain competitive. If we fail to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, we may lose market share. The market for Application Delivery solutions is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to: · invest significantly in research and development; · develop, introduce and support new products and enhancements on a timely basis; and · gain and consecutively increase market acceptance of our products. 8 We are currently developing new products and enhancements to our existing products. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, or if we fail to gain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. For example, at the end of 2005 we introduced our next generation APSolute application delivery product family. This product launch includes a high end application switch with enhanced system software called APSolute OS, and introducing three new products, AppDirector, AppXcel and SecureFlow. During 2005 we invested, and plan to continue to invest in 2006, in creating and increasing market acceptance of our APSolute product family. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling our next generation application delivery solution and growing revenues to justify our investments. We have a very limited order backlog. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We have a very limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We depend upon independent distributors to sell our products to customers. If our distributors do not succeed in selling our products, our revenues will suffer. We sell our products primarily to independent distributors, including value added resellers, original equipment manufacturers and systems integrators. These distributors resell our products to the ultimate customers. We currently have over 200 active independent distributors and resellers that sell our products. We are highly dependent upon our distributors’ active marketing and sales efforts. Our distribution agreements generally are non-exclusive, one-year agreements with no obligation on the part of our distributors to renew the agreements. Typically, our distribution agreements do not prevent our distributors from selling products of other companies, including products that may compete with our products, and do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. As a result, our distributors may give higher priority to products of other companies or to their own products, thus reducing or discontinuing their efforts to sell our products. We may not be able to maintain our existing distribution relationships. If our distributors terminate their relationships with us, we may not be successful in replacing them. In addition, we may need to develop new distribution channels for new products and we may not succeed in doing so. Any changes in our distribution channels, or our inability to establish distribution channels for new products, will impair our ability to sell our products and result in the loss of revenues. Our products generally have long sales cycles, which increases our costs in obtaining orders and reduces the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to the business of our customers. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new equipment. The sales cycles of our products to new customers can last as long as twelve months from initial presentation to sale. This delays the time in which we recognize revenue, and results in our having to invest significant resources in marketing and sales. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered in a short sales cycle, including our customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and cancellation. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of our customers’ procurement decisions. Furthermore, customers may defer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors. These factors complicate our planning processes and reduce the predictability of our earnings. We must manage our anticipated growth effectively in order to maintain profitability. We have actively expanded our operations in the past and may continue to expand them in the future in order to gain market share in the evolving market for Application Delivery solutions. This expansion has required, and may continue to require, managerial, operational and financial resources. 9 We cannot assure you that we will continue to expand, or that we will be able to offer and expand our operations successfully. If we are unable to manage our expanding operations effectively, our revenues may not increase, our cost of operations may rise and we may not be profitable. As we grow we may need new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls. For example, we are in the process of purchasing and migrating to a new ERP system. The purchase, migration and implementation of such a system can take up to 24 months. The transition to such systems, procedures or controls, as well as any delay in transitioning to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may seriously harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Our efforts to increase our presence in additional markets may not be profitable. We currently offer our products in over 40 countries in addition to North America. In fiscal years 2004 and 2005, our sales outside the Americas represented approximately 58% and 59%, respectively, of our total sales. Our ability to penetrate new markets is subject to risks inherent to these markets. The risks may impair our ability to generate profits from our increased sales efforts outside North America. In addition, any future political or economic instability in these or other foreign countries could significantly reduce demand for our products. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified sales, technical and customer support personnel. As we grow, we may need to increase our research and development, sales and marketing, and support staff. Our products require a sophisticated marketing and sales effort targeted at several levels within a prospective customer’s organization. The integration of these solutions into existing networks and ongoing support can be complex. Accordingly, we need highly-trained sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for qualified sales personnel, as well as technical and customer support personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to support our research and development and sales and marketing efforts. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified personnel. We are dependent on Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer and President, the loss of whom would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer and President. Although we have employment contracts with our senior management and key personnel, we do not carry life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Roy Zisapel, other members of senior management or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. Undetected hardware and software errors may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. Our products have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released, either due to errors we fail to detect or errors in components supplied by third parties. These errors tend to be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after the commencement of commercial shipments. Our customers integrate our products into their networks with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the product that has caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these errors, we will need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the detection and correction of these errors. In the past, we have not incurred significant warranty or repair costs, nor have we been subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors or experienced any material lags or delays as a result of these errors. However, we cannot assure you that we will not incur these costs or liabilities or experience these lags or delays in the future. Any insurance policies that we may have may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. Moreover, the occurrence of errors, whether caused by our products or the products of another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and injure our reputation, thus impairing the market acceptance of our products. 10 We rely on third party manufacturing vendors to provide key components of our products. If USR Technologies and Electronics (2003) Ltd., or USR, is not able to provide us with adequate supplies of the principal component used in our products, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand, or may have a delay in fulfilling orders. We rely on USR to supply us with circuit boards. These circuit boards are a principal component, which we use in the manufacture of our products. If we are unable to acquire circuit boards from USR on acceptable terms, or should USR cease to supply us with circuit boards for any reason, we may not be able to identify and integrate an alternative source of supply in a timely fashion or at the same costs. Any transition to one or more alternate suppliers would likely result in delays, operational problems and increased costs, and may limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on time for such transition period. There is no assurance, that we will be able to obtain an additional supplier or that we will be able to get components from an additional supplier in prices that are competitive to USR prices. We are currently negotiating an agreement with an additional supplier, however, for supply of a limited number of product platforms. A shortage of components or manufacturing capacity could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders or increase our manufacturing costs Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We may experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts, especially if the economy grows. Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.. Our products may not meet the new European governmental regulations, including environmental standards, required for their sale, which may negatively affect our sales. Our activities in Europe require that we comply with European Union Directives with respect to product quality assurance standards and environmental standards. Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction Of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “RoHs” Directive), requires products sold in Europe to meet certain design specifications, which exclude the use of hazardous substances, will take effect on July 1, 2006 and requires that certain of our products be modified to meet this regulation. Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “WEEE” Directive) requires produces of electrical and electronic equipment to register in different European countries and provide collection and recycling facilities for used products. If we fail to achieve compliance, we may be restricted from selling our products in the European Union and this could adversely affect our results of operations. Following the Implementation of SFAS No. 123R, we are required to record a compensation expense in connection with share based compensation, and, as a result, our profitability will be reduced significantly. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123(R) "), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. 11 Generally, the approach in SFAS 123(R) is similar to the approach described in Statement 123. However, SFAS No. 123 permitted, but did not require, share-based payments to employees to be recognized based on their fair values while SFAS No. 123(R) requires, as of the first quarter of 2006, all share-based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation expense based on their fair values. SFAS No. 123(R) also revises, clarifies and expands guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. The impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend also on levels of share-based compensation granted in the future. Had we adopted this standard in prior period, however, we would have recorded a material amount as compensation expense, which would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The adoption of this standard could materially adversely affect our profitability in the future. In addition, if as a result of SFAS No. 123(R) we would stop or limit the use of stock options as an incentive and retention tool, it could have a negative effect on our ability to recruit and retain employees. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriate our technologies and trademarks for their own businesses. Our success depends upon the protection of our proprietary software installed in our products, our trade secrets and our trademarks. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademark and patent law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, distributors and others. In the United States, we have registered trademarks for “Web Server Director®,” “Cache Server Director®”, “FireProof®”, “LinkProof®”, “Triangulation®”, “Smart Nat®”, “Get Certain®”, “CertainT®”, “Peer Director®”, “Synapps Architecture®”, “DefencePro®”, StringMatch Engine®” and “CID - Content Inspection Director®”. We also have trademark applications pending for “UpLink™”, “Radware™”, “APSoluteTM”, “AppDirector”™, “AppXCell”™ and “SecureFlow”™. In addition, we have registered patents in the United States for our triangle redirection method used for the global load balancing, for our mechanism for efficient management and optimization of multiple links used in our LinkProof product, for our method for load balancing by global proximity used in our WSD product and for our method for controlling traffic on links between autonomous BGP systems. We also have pending patent applications and provisional patents in connection with several features used in our products. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Effective trademark, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer, or intend to offer, our products. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could devalue our proprietary content and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. For example, on July 16, 2004 we filed a lawsuit in the District Court of New Jersey against F5 Networks, Inc. for infringement of our patent directed at a method for load balancing by global proximity. The lawsuit was settled on March 10, 2005. Although the lawsuit did not result in a significant expenditure we spent time and resources litigating and settling the claim. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. As a result we may incur costs defending ourselves or settling lawsuits even if we believe we do not infringe third parties rights. For example, on March 19, 2003, F5 Networks, Inc. filed a lawsuit against us for patent infringement in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. We settled the claim in September 2004 and licensed the F5 patent in suit. Although the settlement and license did not have a material affect on our financial results, we spent time and resources on defending and settling the claim. 12 Our non-competition agreements with our employees may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions. If any of these employees leaves our company and joins a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. We currently have non-competition agreements with all of our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, in the event they cease to work for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a limited period after termination of employment. The laws of the U.S., Israel and other countries in which we have employees, may limit or prohibit our ability to enforce these non-competition agreements, or may allow us to enforce them only to a limited extent. In the event that we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, competitors that employ our former employees could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. Some of our deposits and other investments may be in excess of insured limits and are not insured in other jurisdictions. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term bank deposits are invested in banks in the United States and in the U.K. Some of these deposits may be in excess of insured limits and are not otherwise insured. If one or more of these financial institutions were to become insolvent, the loss of these investments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Two shareholders may exert significant influence in the election of our directors and over the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As of April 24, 2006, Mr. Yehuda Zisapel, Chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns an aggregate of 2,577,477 ordinary shares, representing approximately 13.27% of the ordinary shares outstanding as of April 24, 2006 and options to purchase 60,000 ordinary shares, of which 20,000 are vested. Roy Zisapel, Mr. Yehuda Zisapel’s son, is our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director. Roy Zisapel owns 457,584 ordinary shares and options to purchase 800,000 ordinary shares, of which 700,000 are fully vested as of April 24, 2006. In addition, Mr. Yehuda Zisapel has the right to vote the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options while held by the trustee under our share option plan. As a result, these shareholders may exert significant influence in the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval, such as the election of our directors, approve or reject a merger and similar corporate transactions. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to such sales proceeds. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. We believe we were not a PFIC for our 2005 tax year. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service will attempt to treat us as a PFIC for 2005 or prior years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2006 or in subsequent years. For a discussion of the rules relating to passive foreign investment companies and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 13 Risks Related to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected if political, economic and military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between the Palestinians and Israel, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date, however, there is no assurance that this will always be the case in the future. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries or companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as the result of the aforementioned hostilities. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. Some of our directors and officers as well as many of our Israeli employees are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel. We cannot assess the potential impact of these obligations on our business. Some of our directors, officers and employees are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, depending upon their age and prior position in the army. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Directors, officers, and key employees falling within these requirements include Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Amir Peles, our Chief Technical Officer, and Assaf Ronen, our Vice President, Research and Development. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence, for a significant period, of one of more of these officers or other key employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. The rate of inflation in Israel and the change in the exchange rate between the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar and/or the U.S. dollar against the Euro is volatile, and may negatively impact our costs. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars or are dollar-linked, but we incur a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, in other currencies mainly in Israel, in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”) and in Europe, in Euros. In 2005, we sold in Euros in most European countries. In this respect, we are exposed to the following risks: the rate of inflation in Israel may exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, the timing of this devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel, or the NIS may increase in value relative to the dollar. In such events, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, if the Euro increases in value relative to the dollar and sales in Euros do not exceed expenses incurred in Euros, the dollar cost of our operations in Europe will increase and our operating profit will be adversely affected. If the Euro decreases in value relative to the dollar and sales in Euros exceed expenses incurred in Euros, our operating profit will be negatively affected as a result of a decrease in the dollar value of our sales. In 2005, the value of the dollar increased in relation to the NIS by 6.8%, the inflation rate in Israel was 2.4%, and the value of the dollar increased in relation to the Euro by 15.3%. As a result, during 2005, we had a decrease in expenses (as a result of the decrease in the Euro exchange rate), which was offset by the decrease we had in our sales due to the fact that our sales to the EU countries are also denominated in Euro. We cannot provide assurances that we will not be materially adversely affected by the rate of inflation in Israel or exchange rate fluctuations in the future. 14 The tax benefits we may receive in connection with our approved enterprise program require us to satisfy prescribed conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future. This would increase taxes and decrease our net profit The Investment Center has granted us an approval to establish an “Approved Enterprise” program at our Tel Aviv and Jerusalem facilities. An Approved Enterprise is eligible for tax benefits on taxable income derived from its Approved Enterprise programs. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any Approved Enterprise program we establish, or if we voluntarily decide to cease the Approved Enterprise program, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. One criterion for establishing the level of tax benefits is the percentage of holdings by foreign (i.e. non-Israeli) investors in our shares. A decrease in the level of foreign investors’ holdings may increase our tax rate. A recent amendment to the Investment Law, which was published on April 1, 2005 (the “Amendment") has changed certain provisions of the Investment Law. As a result of the Amendment, the Company is no longer obliged to obtain an Approved Enterprise status in order to receive the tax benefits previously available under the Alternative Benefits provisions, and therefore there is no need to apply to the Investment Center for this purpose (Approved Enterprise status remains mandatory for companies seeking grants). Rather, the Company may claim the tax benefits offered by the Investment Law directly in its tax returns, provided that its facilities meet the criteria for tax benefits set out by the Amendment. The Company is also granted a right to approach the Israeli Tax Authority for a pre-ruling regarding their eligibility for benefits under the Amendment. Tax benefits are available under the Amendment to production facilities (or other eligible facilities), which are generally required to derive more than 25% of their business income from export (referred to as a “Benefited Enterprise” under the Amendment). In order to receive the tax benefits, the Amendment states that the Company must make an investment in the Benefited Enterprise exceeding a minimum amount specified in the Law. Such investment may be made over a period of no more than three years ending at the end of the year in which the Company requested to have the tax benefits apply to the Benefited Enterprise (the "Year of Election"). Where the Company requests to have the tax benefits apply to an expansion of existing facilities, then only the expansion will be considered a Benefited Enterprise and the Company’s effective tax rate will be the result of a weighted combination of the applicable rates. In this case, the minimum investment required in order to qualify as a Benefited Enterprise is required to exceed a certain percentage of the Company’s production assets before the expansion. Our approved program and tax benefits thereunder may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our taxes. The amount, if any, by which our taxes would increase will depend upon the rate of any tax increase, the amount of any tax benefit reduction, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. We may be required to pay stamp duty on agreements executed by us after June 1, 2003 and prior to January 1, 2006. This would increase our taxes. The Israeli Stamp Duty on Documents Law, 1961, or the Stamp Duty Law, provides that most documents signed by Israeli companies are subject to a stamp duty, generally at a rate of between 0.4% and 1% of the value of the subject matter of such document. De facto, it has been common practice in Israel not to pay such stamp duty unless a document is filed with a governmental authority or with the courts. As a result of an amendment to the Stamp Duty Law that came into effect on June 1, 2003, the Israeli tax authorities have approached many companies in Israel and requested the disclosure of all agreements signed by such companies after June 1, 2003 with the aim of collecting stamp duty on such agreements. Based on advice from counsel, we believe that we may only be required to pay stamp duty on documents signed on or after August 2004. However, we cannot assure you that the tax authorities or the courts will accept such view. Although at this stage it is not yet possible to evaluate the effect, if any, on us of the amendment to the Stamp Duty Law, the same could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Under an order published in December 2005, the requirement to pay stamp duty was terminated with respect to documents signed on or after January 1, 2006. Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent, or make difficult, a change of control, thereby depressing the price of our ordinary shares. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by both the board of directors of a company and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the voting power or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. In addition, a merger generally may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal signed by each of the merging companies with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorable than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or make more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which could depress our share price. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us and/or our officers and directors, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and our directors and officers named herein substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: · Adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; · The judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · The judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; · The judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; · An action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and · The U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing the judgments of Israeli courts. 16 ITEM 