ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We desire to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following factors have affected or could affect our actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we may make. Investors should consider carefully the following risks and speculative factors inherent in and affecting our business and an investment in our common stock. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history in an emerging and rapidly evolving market and in 2004 acquired several new businesses. We began operating our business in 1998 and since that time we have undergone significant changes: •we launched the Findwhat.com Network (now MIVA Media US) in September 1999; and, •in 2004, we acquired several companies, including a provider of connected desktop consumer software, a U.S. performance-based, keyword-targeted advertising business; and a provider of performance-based, keyword-targeted Internet advertising services in Europe, each of which substantially diversified and expanded the scope and geographic reach of our operations. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history upon which an investor can make an evaluation of the likelihood of our success. Additionally, we derive nearly all of our net revenue from online advertising, which is a relatively new and rapidly evolving market. An investor should consider the likelihood of our future success to be speculative in light of our limited operating history, as well as the problems, limited resources, expenses, risks, and complications frequently encountered by similarly situated companies in emerging and changing markets, such as e-commerce. To address these risks, we must, among other things: •maintain and increase our client base; •implement and successfully execute our business and marketing strategy; •continue to develop and upgrade our technology; •continually update and improve our service offerings and features; •provide superior customer service; •find and integrate strategic transactions; •respond to industry and competitive developments; and 8 •attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We may not be successful in addressing these risks, particularly as some of these are largely outside of our control. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. One advertisement feed provider accounts for a significant portion of our consolidated revenue. On December 28, 2006, we entered into an agreement with Google pursuant to which we have agreed to exclusively utilize Google's WebSearch and AdSense Services for approved MIVA Direct websites and applications. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Google accounted for approximately 28.4% of our consolidated revenue. Our agreement with Google has a term of two years and contains broad termination rights. If (i) we fail to have websites and applications approved by Google or, (ii) Google exercises its termination rights and we are unable to find an alternative advertisement feed provider that offers the same revenue opportunity as our current advertisement feed provider, we likely will experience a significant decline in revenue and our business operations could be significantly harmed. The success of our MIVA Direct is dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our active toolbar base. MIVA Direct operates a portfolio of consumer destination websites as well as a range of consumer-oriented interactive products including toolbars and screensavers. MIVA Direct derives the majority of its revenue from advertisements directed towards toolbar users. The amount of revenue generated by MIVA Direct is dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our active toolbar installed base. Factors that could negatively influence our ability to maintain and grow our active toolbar installed base include, but are not limited to, government regulation, acceptance of our toolbar products by consumers, the availability of advertising to promote our toolbar products, third-party designation of our toolbar products as undesirable or malicious, user attrition, and competition. If we are unable to maintain and grow our active toolbar base, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our MIVA Media business is dependent upon our relationships with, and the success of, our distribution partners, including our ability to attract new distribution partners and retain existing distribution partners on favorable terms. Our MIVA Media distribution partners are very important to our business, financial position, and results of operations. These partners provide our services on their websites or otherwise direct their user traffic to our paid listings. Our distribution partners may experience difficulty in attracting and retaining a substantial number of users due to, among other reasons, the rapidly changing nature of the market, technological innovation, industry consolidation, and changing consumer preferences. In addition, we may not be able to further develop and maintain relationships with distribution partners. Difficulties may arise in our relationships with distribution partners for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control. These distribution partners may regard us as not significant for their own businesses, may regard us as a competitor to their businesses, or find our competitors to be more attractive. In addition, our distribution partners face substantial competition, and any inability on our part to align with successful distribution partners could adversely affect our business. Our distribution partners may not be able to increase or maintain in the future the Internet traffic they have historically generated for our network. Additionally, we have in the past and expect that in the future we will cease displaying advertisements through certain distribution partners or their affiliates whose traffic does not adequately convert to revenue for our advertisers. Moreover, our agreements with our distribution partners vary in duration and generally are not long-term agreements. Our distribution agreements are generally terminable upon the occurrence of certain events, including our failure to meet certain service levels, general breaches of agreement terms, and changes in control in certain circumstances. We may not be 9 successful in recruiting new distribution partners or renewing our existing distribution partnership agreements. If we are able to recruit new distribution partners or renew existing agreements, there is no guarantee that the new agreements will be on as favorable terms as our existing distribution basis. Any adverse changes in the business of, or our relationships with, key distribution partners or any inability on our part to obtain new distribution partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. We may be negatively impacted by our MIVA Media distribution partners and their sub-affiliates that engage in activities in violation of our distribution guidelines. From time to time we may discover that certain of our MIVA Media distribution partners or their affiliates are obtaining Internet users in a manner that does not adhere to our distribution guidelines. While we regularly monitor the activities of our distribution partners to ensure their compliance with our distribution guidelines, we do not monitor the distribution methods used by all of our distribution partners all of the time. If we fail to detect activities of our distribution partners that display our paid listings in a manner contrary to our distribution guidelines, we could be associated with such activities and such association could have a negative impact on our reputation or our ability to attract and retain both advertisers and quality distribution partners and could subject us to third-party or governmental claims or investigations, which in turn could negatively impact our business, revenue, and results of operations. Additionally, we have removed portions of traffic generated by distribution partners, including some of our largest distribution partners. We remove traffic as a result of this generated traffic not meeting our distribution guidelines or our standards of quality. Also, our advertisers occasionally request certain feeds be removed from their distribution. Any of this activity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. Our success is dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with our MIVA Media advertisers and advertising agencies. We generate most of our revenue from our advertisers. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenue from MIVA Media is dependent upon our ability to attract new advertisers and advertising agencies, maintain relationships with existing advertisers and advertising agencies, and generate traffic to our advertisers' websites that meets their return on investment expectations. The number of advertisers using our MIVA Media platform has decreased in recent years. Our programs to attract advertisers and advertising agencies include direct sales, agency sales, online promotions, referral agreements, and participation in tradeshows. We attempt to maintain relationships with our advertisers and advertising agencies through customer service and delivery of qualified traffic. Our advertisers and advertising agencies can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time and on limited or no advance notice. We believe that advertisers will not continue to do business with us if (i) their investment in advertising with us does not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, (ii) we do not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner, or (iii) if our product offering does not result in a satisfying user experience. If we are unable to reduce advertiser attrition or remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The business of MIVA Media is dependent upon our ability to deliver qualified leads to our advertisers. Advertisers utilize MIVA Media to deliver Internet traffic to their websites. We believe advertisers will only use our services if we deliver high quality Internet traffic that meets their needs. A typical way for an advertiser to gauge the quality of Internet traffic is a conversion ratio measuring conversions on their website against the amount of Internet traffic delivered. If we are not satisfied with the quality of Internet traffic delivered from our distribution partners we may take remedial action, including removal of the 10 distribution partner from our networks. We may not be successful: in identifying distribution partners with low quality traffic before we use their services; or in delivering high quality traffic to our advertisers. Further, we have removed in the past and may continue in the future to remove all or a portion of the traffic generated by one or more distribution partners, including some of our largest distribution partners, or terminate our relationships with distribution partners because the traffic generated does not meet our distribution guidelines or our standards of quality or those of our advertisers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. If we are not able to stop the decline in revenue at MIVA Media and maintain or increase our average revenue per click, our business, revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced a significant decline in our revenue at our MIVA Media division. Our average revenue per click in any given period is determined by dividing total click-through revenue by the number of clicks recorded during that same period. We have experienced a significant decline in our average revenue per paid click for both our MIVA Media US and MIVA Media Europe platforms. These declines in our average revenue per click may be caused by a number of factors, including, among others: our overall mix of traffic sources; advertiser bid prices of third-party providers; the bid prices submitted by our advertisers for a keyword advertisement; fewer advertisers using our services and competing for keywords; the bid prices of the more frequently clicked keyword terms; increases in the number of clicks occurring on run-of-network advertisements; the effects of increased competition; delayed updates to the MIVA Media technology platform; and the nexus between the eight. We are actively seeking to stop the decline in revenue at MIVA Media and increase our average revenue per click by changing the overall mix of MIVA Media traffic sources to increase the click-to-conversion ratio for our advertisers, maximizing keyword efficiency for our advertisers, and seeking new implementations through which our advertisers' keyword advertisements may be displayed. If the trend with respect to the decline in our revenue at MIVA Media or our average revenue per click continues, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Click-through fraud, whether we detect it or not, could cause our revenues and our business to suffer. From time to time, we receive clicks on our ads by persons seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to MIVA Media distribution partners. Click-through fraud occurs when a person or program clicks on an advertisement displayed on a website for the purpose of generating a click-through payment to MIVA Media's partner rather than to view the underlying content. We have implemented screening policies and procedures to minimize the effects of these fraudulent clicks. We believe that these policies and procedures assist us in detecting fraudulent click-throughs, which are not billed to our advertisers. However, we cannot be certain that our policies and procedures detect all fraudulent clicks and detection may become more difficult in the future if third parties implement more sophisticated fraudulent click-through schemes. To the extent that we are unable to detect click-through fraud, we later may have to issue refunds to advertisers for amounts previously paid to MIVA Media. Any of these situations would adversely affect our business, revenue, and results of operations and these types of fraudulent activities could hurt our brands. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks would not lead to revenue for the advertisers. If this occurs, our advertisers may become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, and we may lose advertisers and revenue. Additionally, we, along with others in our industry, were named in a putative class action lawsuit by Lane's Gifts and Collectibles, LLC, U.S. Citizens for Fair Credit Card Terms, Inc., Savings 4 Merchants, Inc., and Max Caulfield d/b/a Caulfield Investigations, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated. All of the plaintiffs' claims are predicated on the allegation that the plaintiffs have been charged for clicks on their advertisements that were not made by bona fide customers. The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a putative class of individuals who allegedly "were overcharged for [pay per click] 11 advertising," and seeks monetary damages, restitution, prejudgment interest, attorneys' fees, and other remedies. We were also named as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit filed on March 10, 2006, by Payday Advance Plus, Inc., on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated. The plaintiff's claims are predicated on the allegation that Advertising.com, a MIVA Media distribution partner, engaged in click fraud to increase revenues to themselves with MIVA's alleged knowledge and participation. The complaint seeks monetary damages, restitution, prejudgment interest, attorneys' fees, injunctive relief, and other remedies. In January 2008 we entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs in the Lane's Gifts and Collectibles class action litigation. Additionally, Payday Advance Plus, Inc., has agreed to join the settlement agreement and to dismiss with prejudice all claims it has asserted against MIVA such that the Payday Advance Litigation would be settled and resolved in its entirety. The settlement agreement is subject to various conditions, including, but not limited to, notice to the class and final approval by the Arkansas court, which granted preliminary approval to the settlement at a hearing held on January 23, 2008. If approved, the agreement provides that all claims against MIVA and its subsidiaries, including indemnification obligations to a co-defendant, will be dismissed without presumption or admission of any liability or wrongdoing. Pursuant to the agreement, MIVA would establish a settlement fund of $3,936,812, of which up to $1,312,270 would be in cash for payment of plaintiffs' attorneys' fees and class representative incentive awards and the balance would be in advertising credits relating to the class members' advertising spending with MIVA during the class period. If the settlement is approved, we anticipate the advertising credits will be accounted for as a reduction to revenues in the periods they are redeemed. Estimated plaintiffs' attorney fees and class representative incentive awards of $1,312,270 were accrued in the fourth quarter 2007. Dismissal of the Payday Advance action is subject to approval of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York where the suit was filed. Allegations of the nature asserted in the foregoing cases, generally relating to click-through fraud, whether accurate or not, may have the effect of causing advertisers to lose confidence in the services we provide and to cease advertising with us. Any material reduction in our advertisers' participation in MIVA Media on an aggregate basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, this litigation and similar cases in the future could be costly, time-consuming, and result in the diversion of our management's time and attention, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have recently implemented an outsourcing program for our IT infrastructure services, application development and maintenance, transactional accounting, and MIVA Media support. If we do not successfully transition outsourced functions or our service provider is not able to fulfill its service obligations, our business and operations could be disrupted, and our operating results could be harmed. We have recently implemented outsourcing of various functions, such as our IT infrastructure services, application development and maintenance, transactional accounting, and MIVA Media customer support. These functions are critical to our operations and involve sensitive interactions between us and our advertisers, distribution partners, vendors, and employees. We have an implementation plan for launching the outsourcing initiative and we have service level agreements and monitoring controls once the initiatives are launched. However, if we are not successful in implementing the outsourcing, or managing our service provider, or if the service provider does not perform satisfactorily to agreed upon service levels, our operations, including our ability to account properly for our business, could be disrupted resulting in advertiser, distribution partner, or employee dissatisfaction and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 We rely on a patent license from Yahoo! for the operation of certain portions of our MIVA Media business. We rely on a patent license from Yahoo! for the operation of certain portions of our MIVA Media business. On August 15, 2005, we settled a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Overture Services ("Overture Services") and Yahoo!, Inc. (collectively with Overture Services, "Yahoo!") against us regarding U.S. Patent No. 6,269,361 and took a royalty bearing non-exclusive license from Yahoo! regarding certain patents. The license agreement may be terminated by Yahoo! or by us upon the occurrence of certain events, including upon certain material breaches by either party to the agreement or if we were to challenge the validity or enforceability of the Yahoo! patents. If we are unable to maintain the rights to use such patents, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the settlement contains terms and conditions that may be unacceptable to a third party and could negatively impact our ability to be sold or enter into a change of control transaction. We have made and anticipate making additional significant investments in new initiatives related to current and future product and service offerings that may not meet our expectations in terms of the viability, success, or profitability of such initiatives. We have made and anticipate making significant investments in new initiatives related to current and proposed product and service offerings, such as our approach to certain areas of the pay-per-click business through our Precision Network, enhancements to our MIVA Media product and services offerings, the investments in MIVA Direct, and the anticipated development and rollout of a new global advertiser and distribution partner application for MIVA Media. All such new and proposed initiatives require the expenditure of significant time, money, personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives will be timely, viable, successful, and profitable or will enjoy the same margins as our historical business. An investor should consider the likelihood of our future success with respect to these and other initiatives to be speculative in light of our limited history in successfully developing, introducing, and commercially exploiting new initiatives of this nature, as well as the problems, limited resources, expenses, risks, and complications frequently encountered by similarly situated companies in emerging and changing markets, such as e-commerce, with respect to the development and introduction of initiatives of this nature. Any inability by us to successfully develop, introduce, or implement these or other products or services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future incur impairment charges that could materially adversely affect our earnings and our operating results. Our total assets as of December 31, 2007 include approximately $14.7 million in goodwill, $2.7 million in tangible assets and $5.4 million of intangible and other long-lived assets. The goodwill results from our acquisitions and represents the excess of the purchase price versus the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired. On an annual basis, and more frequently as required, we assess whether indicators of impairment are present and perform the necessary analysis to ensure the carrying value of our goodwill, tangible, and intangible assets are substantiated. If future operating performance at one or more of our businesses does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, non-cash charges to operating results for impairment. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the fourth quarter of 2007, as a result of continued operating losses related to our MIVA Media US business, we performed an impairment analysis to determine recoverability of the recorded long-lived assets of this division. As a result of this analysis, we determined that certain long-lived assets of our MIVA 13 Media US division were impaired under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (SFAS 144)." During the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded approximately $4.7 million in non-cash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of certain long-lived tangible and intangible assets to their estimated fair value. In the second quarter of 2007, events occurred that caused us to reconsider and lower our operating projections for our MIVA Media Europe division, acquired in 2004, primarily as a result of its reduced revenue trend initially beginning in the middle to latter half of 2006 and continuing into, and throughout, 2007. As a result, we performed an impairment test to determine if the value of goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets of this division were recoverable under the provisions of SFAS 142 and SFAS 144, and it was determined that an impairment existed. Therefore, as provided under the provisions of these Statements we recorded a preliminary estimated non-cash impairment charge of $14.0 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill to its fair value as of June 30, 2007. During the third quarter of 2007, we finalized this impairment test of our long-lived assets and the second steps of this impairment analysis, which resulted in an additional impairment charge of $1.4 million related to the long-lived assets of our MIVA Media Europe division. In the second quarter of 2006, events occurred that caused us to reconsider and lower our operating projections for our MIVA Media Europe division, acquired in 2004, primarily as a result of their reduced revenue trend beginning in the last half of May 2006 and continuing into, and throughout, June 2006. We anticipated further challenges in the European marketplace in future periods. As a result, we performed an impairment test to determine if the value of goodwill, intangibles assets and other long-lived assets were recoverable under the provisions of SFAS 142 and SFAS 144, and it was determined that an impairment existed. Therefore, as provided under the provisions of those statements, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $63.7 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets to their fair value. During the second quarter of 2005, our stock price declined significantly, resulting in our market capitalization falling below the amount of our recorded equity. As a result of the existence of this and other indicators, we performed an impairment test to determine if the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles was recoverable under the provisions of SFAS 142, and it was determined that an impairment existed. During the second quarter of 2005, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $117.1 million to reduce our carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets to their implied fair value. Additionally, $1.8 million in impairment was specific to our MIVA Small Business division and is included in discontinued operations. In addition, during the third quarter of 2005 we updated our projections, resulting in further indicators of goodwill impairment. The projections for all reporting units were not significantly changed with the exception of MIVA Small Business. Events specific to MIVA Small Business caused us to further reduce our projections significantly, primarily as a result of new products that were not released as scheduled as well as reduced sales of our MIVA Merchant software. As a result, we recorded an additional goodwill impairment charge of $1.8 million and a long-lived asset impairment charge of $2.5 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. This impairment charge, as a result of the asset sale of MIVA Small Business in August 2007, is recorded in discontinued operations. After this charge, MIVA Small Business's goodwill and long-lived intangible assets balance was zero. 14 We will continue to assess the potential of impairment for goodwill, intangibles assets, and other long-lived assets in future periods in accordance with SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. Should our business prospects change, and our expectations for acquired business be further reduced, or other circumstances that affect our business dictate, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We cannot assure you that future impairments will not occur. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred in the future, we would be required to write off additional goodwill. Any future impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. Changes in legislation, regulation, and standards relating to online marketing, particularly online distribution of software, could harm our business. There is increasing awareness and concern among the general public and federal and state governments regarding marketing and privacy concerns, including those relating to online marketing and online distribution of software. The U.S. Congress and some state legislatures have introduced legislation designed to regulate "spyware," which has not been precisely defined, but which is often defined as software installed on consumers' computers without their informed consent and which is designed to gather and, in some cases, disseminate information about those consumers, including personally identifiable information. We do not rely on "spyware" for any purpose and it is not part of our product offerings, but the definition of spyware or proposed legislation relating to spyware may be broadly defined or interpreted to include legitimate ad-serving software, including toolbar offerings and other downloadable software currently provided by our MIVA Direct division. Currently, legislation has focused on providing Internet users with notification of and the ability to consent or decline the installation of such software, but there can be no guarantee that future legislation will not provide more burdensome standards by which software can be downloaded onto consumers' computers. Currently all downloadable software that we distribute requires an express consent of the consumer and provides consumers with an easy mechanism to delete the software once downloaded. However, if future legislation is adopted which makes the consent, notice or uninstall procedures more onerous, we may have to develop new technology or methods to provide our services or discontinue those services in some jurisdictions or altogether. There is no guarantee we will be able to develop this new technology at all or in a timely fashion or on commercially reasonable terms. The regulatory environment with respect to online marketing practices is also evolving. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has increasingly focused on issues affecting online marketing, particularly online privacy and security issues. One of the key areas of focus for the FTC is the difference between spyware and ad-serving software, such as our downloadable toolbar applications. New legislation, which could be proposed or enacted at any time in the future, new regulations or changes in the regulatory climate, or the expansion, enforcement or interpretation of existing laws could prevent us from offering some or all of our services or expose us to additional costs and expenses require substantial changes to our business or otherwise substantially harm our business. We face substantial and increasing competition in the market for Internet-based marketing services. We face substantial competition in every aspect of our business, and particularly from other companies that seek to connect people with information on the Internet and provide them with relevant advertising and commerce-enabling services, either directly or through a network of partners. Some of our principal competitors include: Google, MSN, Yahoo!, IAC/InteractiveCorp (Ask.com), 7Search, InfoSpace, LookSmart, Marchex, and ValueClick. Our principal competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, and other resources than we have. These competitors historically have developed and expanded their portfolios of products and services more rapidly than we have. In addition, these and other 15 competitors may have or obtain certain intellectual property rights that may interfere with or prevent the use of one or more of our business models. These and other competitors can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by acquiring complementary companies or assets, investing aggressively in research and development, and competing more aggressively for advertisers and partners. We expect that these competitors will increasingly use their financial and technological resources to compete with us. We have sought protection from competition by filing applications for several patents; however, there is no assurance that any of these patents ultimately will be granted. In the absence of patent protection, we have only a limited amount of proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the keyword-targeted advertising market and the other markets in which we operate. Therefore, we must compete based on the skill of our personnel and the quality of our customer service. We believe that the barriers to entry with respect to the development and provision of e-commerce services are relatively low. Therefore, we expect that we continually will face additional competition from new entrants into our markets in the future. The emergence of these enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, to the extent we pursue strategic transactions, we may compete with other companies with similar growth strategies, some of which may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. Competition for any such acquisition targets likely also will result in increased prices of acquisition targets and a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive. Our success depends on providing products and services that businesses use to provide their clients with a high quality Internet experience. Our competitors are constantly developing innovative Internet products. As a result, we must continue to seek to enhance our technology and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that businesses will use. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: •enhance and improve the responsiveness and functionality of our MIVA Media Network and our primary traffic services; •license, develop or acquire technologies useful in our business on a timely basis, enhance our existing services and develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of the business; and •respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Because our markets are still developing and rapidly changing, we must allocate our resources based on our predictions as to the future development of the Internet and our markets. These predictions ultimately may not prove to be accurate. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technology and systems may become obsolete and we may not have the funds or technical know-how to upgrade our services, technology and systems. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose partners and advertisers that could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous international jurisdictions. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination 16 is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related tax litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of tax audit or tax litigation, our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to grow or manage our growth, our business will be adversely affected. To succeed, we must grow. We may make additional acquisitions in the future as part of our growth initiatives. These may include acquisitions of international companies or other international operations. We have limited experience in acquiring and integrating companies, and we may also expand into new lines of business in which we have little or no experience. Additionally, we may fail to achieve the anticipated synergies from such acquisitions. Accordingly, our growth strategy subjects us to a number of risks, including the following: •we may incur substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems in integrating acquired businesses, including in integrating each company's accounting, management information, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management; •we may not be able to identify, acquire, or profitably manage any additional businesses; •with smaller acquired companies, we may need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company; •the acquired companies may adversely affect our consolidated operating results, particularly since some of the acquired companies may have a history of operating losses; •acquisitions may divert our management's attention from the operation of our businesses; •we may not be able to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; •there may be cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from our acquired companies into our organization; and •we may encounter unanticipated events, circumstances, or legal liabilities. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to return to our historical growth rates and operating margins in the future. In 2004, we grew rapidly through multiple acquisitions and a significant merger and these events assisted in achieving higher than normal growth rates. We may not be able to return to the 2004 historical growth rates and our future growth rates may continue to decline as a result of various factors, including increased competition. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, our growth rates declined. Additionally, if our operations continue in the same direction our growth rates may continue to decline into and throughout 2008, due to, among other things: •operating in an environment of increased competition both domestically and internationally; •increased expenditures for certain aspects of our business as a percentage of our net revenues, which may include product development expenditures, sales and marketing expenses, and increased costs of operating as an international public company with multiple divisions; and •impact of amortizing intangible assets acquired in mergers and acquisitions. 17 We are subject to numerous risks associated with our acquired international operations. Prior to 2004, we operated primarily in the United States. In July 2004 we merged with MIVA Media Europe, which is based in the United Kingdom and serves a number of additional European countries. Prior to this acquisition, we had no prior experience integrating and managing international operations. Any inability to successfully integrate and manage our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors arising out of our international operations, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •lower per capita Internet usage or lower advertiser spending in many countries, due to factors such as lower disposable incomes, lack of telecommunications and computer infrastructure, greater concern about security in online e-commerce transactions, and less access to and use of credit cards; •relatively smaller Internet markets in some countries; •current or future competitors obtaining intellectual property rights that they could assert against our business internationally, which may adversely affect our international operations; •technological differences by marketplace, which we may not be able to support; •international laws and regulations that may impact the conduct of our business operations in a particular country; •difficulty in recruiting qualified local employees and in building locally relevant products and services, which could limit our ability to aggregate a large local advertiser base; •longer payment cycles and local economic downturns; •credit risk and potentially higher levels of payment fraud; •currency exchange rate fluctuations, as well as international exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; •political and economic instability; •higher costs associated with doing business internationally; and •tax liabilities pertaining to years prior to our acquisition. Certain members of our management team and many of our employees have recently joined us and must be integrated into our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had 230 full-time employees. Some of our new employees include certain key managerial, technical, financial, marketing, and operations personnel, including our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer who joined the company on December 15, 2006, and our Chief Executive Officer, who joined the company on September 6, 2005 as Chief Operating Officer, and was named CEO on April 6, 2006. Some of our new employees may not yet have been fully integrated into our operations. Additionally, on April 3, 2006, our Board of Directors appointed a new non-executive Chairman and a new President. Our failure to attract and fully integrate our new employees into our operations or successfully manage and retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could harm our business and operating results. We have had some employee turnover in our finance and accounting departments. Additionally, we outsourced our transactional accounting functions in May 2007. Because of this turnover and the potential 18 for future employee turnover in our finance and accounting department, or if our outsourcing initiative does not succeed, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our business, financial position, and operating results. Additionally, failure to accurately report our financial results could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports, either of which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified, highly skilled personnel, including accounting and finance personnel. We expect the expansion of our business to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, and financial resources. We will be required to expand our operational and financial systems significantly and train and manage our work force in order to manage the expansion of our operations. We will need to attract and retain highly qualified, technical and other personnel to maintain and update our products and services and meet our business objectives. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such qualified personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary technical and other personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key technical personnel. Many of our management and key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. In addition, we do not currently hold key personnel life insurance policies on any of our key employees. We believe that the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, our corporate accounting and finance department has had difficulty retaining and hiring qualified personnel. Additionally, in May 2007, we outsourced our transactional accounting function to Chennai, India as part of the Perot Master Services Agreement. We have recruited and, as of December 31, 2007, we have no remaining vacant positions available within the accounting and finance department. However, prior to these additions, in 2007, the lack of having these positions filled made the closing process difficult and elongated. This shortage of adequate in-house accounting and financial resources, and the complexity of the issues we faced during 2006, resulted in material weaknesses in our system of internal controls at December 31, 2006. If we are unsuccessful in retaining the appropriate and qualified accounting and finance personnel, our ability to effectively maintain our books and records will be weakened and material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result. Our reliance on internally developed technology systems may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We use internally developed technology systems for a portion of our keyword-targeted paid listing request processing software. These systems were designed primarily to increase the number of appropriate paid keyword-targeted ads for each related keyword request made on our network to improve customer service. A significant amount of manual effort by our technical personnel may be required to update these systems if our competitors develop superior processing methods. This manual effort is time-consuming and costly and may place us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors with more efficient systems. We intend to upgrade and expand our processing systems and to integrate newly-developed and purchased modules with our existing systems to improve the efficiency of our paid listing methods and support increased transaction volume. However, we are unable to predict whether these upgrades will improve our competitive position. 19 Constraints on our current system capacity will require us to expand our network infrastructure and customer support capabilities. Our ability to provide high-quality customer service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems in order to accommodate any significant increases in the numbers of advertisers using our services and the queries and paid click-throughs we receive. We believe that we will be required to expand our network infrastructure and customer support capabilities to support an anticipated expansion of the number of queries and paid click-throughs we receive. Expansion will require us to make significant upfront expenditures for servers, routers, computer equipment and additional Internet and intranet equipment, and to increase bandwidth for Internet connectivity. Our expansion and enhancements will need to be completed and integrated without system disruptions. Failure to expand our network infrastructure or customer service capabilities either internally or through third parties would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. New technologies could limit the effectiveness of our products and services, which would harm our business. New technologies may be developed by others that can block the display of ads or sponsored listings. Since most of our net revenue is derived from fees paid to us by advertisers, ad-blocking or similar technology could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on third parties for certain software and services to operate our business. We depend on third-party software and services to operate our business. Although we believe that several alternative sources for this software are available, any failure to obtain and maintain the rights to use such software on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also dependent upon third parties to provide Internet services to allow us to connect to the Internet with sufficient capacity and bandwidth so that our business can function properly and our website can handle current and anticipated traffic. We currently have contracts with certain telecommunications providers for these services. Any restrictions or interruption in our connection to the Internet, or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and our brand could be damaged if clients or prospective clients believe our system is unreliable. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. We exercise little control over these third party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced occasional system interruptions in the past and we cannot assure you that such interruptions will not occur again in the future. Our technical systems are vulnerable to interruption, security breaches, and damage, which could harm our business and damage our brands if our clients or prospective clients believe that our products are unreliable. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users, or "hackers," and similar events. Any such events could interrupt our services and severely damage our business. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our technical operations facilities could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or render us unable to provide services to our customers. In addition, we may be unable to provide services and websites due to a failure of the data communications capacity we require, as a result of human error, natural disaster, or other operational disruptions. The occurrence of any or all of these events could 20 materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and damage our brands if clients or prospective clients believe that our products are unreliable. Internet security poses risks to our entire business, and security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to loss or litigation. The process of e-commerce aggregation by means of our hardware and software infrastructure involves the transmission and analysis of confidential and proprietary information of our clients, as well as our own confidential and proprietary information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from other companies to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure Internet transmission of confidential information, such as credit and other proprietary information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect client transaction data. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause material interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that our activities or the activities of others involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our intellectual property rights may not be protectable or of significant value in the future. We depend upon confidentiality agreements with specific employees, consultants, and subcontractors to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. These measures may not afford us sufficient or complete protection, and others may independently develop know-how and services similar to ours, otherwise avoid our confidentiality agreements, or produce patents and copyrights that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of the protection of certain intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our future intellectual property. Third parties may also infringe or misappropriate any copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary rights we may have. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We own several domestic and international trade and service mark registrations related to our products or services, including a U.S. Federal Registration for MIVA, along with trademarks for the names of our collective predecessor corporations. Additionally, we have filed applications to expand the geographic scope of the registration of the MIVA mark, among others, and have common law rights in several other marks. If other companies also claim rights to use the marks we use in our business, we may be required to become involved in litigation or incur additional expenses. Effective service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are distributed or made available through the Internet. The process and technology we use to operate MIVA Media is critical to the success of our business. In February 2000, we filed a patent application for MIVA Media with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. This patent application is still pending approval at December 31, 2007. Subsequently, we have filed additional patent applications covering additional services and the evolution of our business model. These applications are currently pending. Our patent applications may be rejected and we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights. 21 To date, we have filed one patent application covering core technology used in MIVA Media in Europe. This patent application is currently pending, and we cannot assure you that this patent ultimately will be granted. Even if we file other patent applications for our European MIVA Media technology in the future, we cannot assure you that any patents will ever be issued. Further, even if patents are issued, they may not protect our intellectual property rights, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of issued patents. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that may be issued to us. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights, which may result in the dilution of the brand identity of our services. Our business has historically been and may continue to be partially subject to seasonality, which may impact our quarterly growth rate. We have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in the number of click-throughs received by typical distribution partners within our MIVA Media Network, both domestically and internationally. Historically, during the first and fourth quarters of each calendar year, we have realized more activity than the second and third quarters, due to increased overall Internet usage during the first and fourth quarters related to colder weather and holiday purchases. These seasonal fluctuations may continue in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could have prevented us from being able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our business, financial position, and operating results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess, and our independent registered public accounting firm attest to, the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that needed improvement. During 2007 we have remediated our three material weaknesses from 2006 and we do not have any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. However, we may identify material weakness in the future. These matters and our continued efforts regarding remediation of these matters, as well as our efforts regarding internal controls generally are discussed in detail in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2006, we identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to capital assets, treasury, and inventory. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, we had identified several other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. At present we have remedied all outstanding issues with respect to the material weaknesses we identified as of December 31, 2005 and 2006. However, since the requirements of Section 404 are ongoing and apply for future years, we cannot be certain that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Remediating the material weaknesses that were identified in the past, and any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify in the future, has in the past and could in the future require us to incur significant costs, hire additional personnel, expend significant time and management resources or make other changes. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their 22 implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of our material weaknesses, any failure to remediate such material weaknesses in a timely fashion, or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. We cannot predict our future capital needs and may not be able to secure additional financing. We have no material long-term agreements or short-term commitments for the funding of capital expenditures. We currently anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents of $29.9 million as of December 31, 2007, will be sufficient to meet the anticipated liquidity needs for working capital and capital expenditures over the next 12 months. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors. The pace of expansion of our operations will affect our capital requirements. We may also have increased capital requirements in order to respond to competitive pressures. In addition, we may need additional capital to fund acquisitions of complementary products, technologies, or businesses. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties and actual results could vary materially as a result of the factors described above. As we require additional capital resources, we may seek to sell debt securities or additional equity securities, or obtain a bank line of credit. There can be no assurance that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts, or on terms, acceptable to us, if at all. Risks Related to Our Industry Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. While there are currently relatively few laws or regulations directly applicable to Internet access, commerce, or commercial search activity, there is increasing awareness and concern regarding some uses of the Internet and other online services, leading federal, state, local, and international governments to consider adopting civil and criminal laws and regulations, amending existing laws and regulations, conducting investigations, or commencing litigation with respect to the Internet and other online services covering issues such as: •user privacy; •trespass; •defamation; •database and data protection; •limitations on the distribution of materials considered harmful to children; •liability for misinformation provided over the web; •user protection, pricing, taxation, and advertising restrictions (including, for example, limitation on the advertising on Internet gambling websites or of certain products); •delivery of contextual advertisements via connected desktop software; •intellectual property ownership and infringement, including liability for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials infringing copyrights or other rights; •distribution, characteristics, and quality of products and services; and •other consumer protection laws. 23 Legislation has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress and some state legislatures that is designed to regulate spyware, which does not have a precise definition, but which is often defined as software installed on consumers' computers without their informed consent and which is designed to gather and, in some cases, disseminate information about those consumers, including personally identifiable information. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations, application of existing laws to the Internet generally or our industry, or any governmental investigation or litigation related to the Internet generally, our industry, or our services may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn: •decrease the demand for our services; •increase our cost of doing business; •preclude us from developing additional products or services; •result in adverse publicity to us or our distribution partners; and •subject us to fines, litigation, or criminal penalties, enjoin us from conducting our business or providing any of our services, otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or result in a substantial decline in the market price of our common stock. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that multiple state, federal, or international jurisdictions might inconsistently regulate Internet activities, which would increase our costs of compliance and the risk of violating the laws of a particular jurisdiction, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The market for our services is uncertain and is still evolving. Internet marketing and advertising, in general, and advertising through priority placement in keyword-targeted advertisements in particular, are at early stages of development, are evolving rapidly and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. The demand and market acceptance for recently introduced services is generally subject to a high level of uncertainty. Most potential advertisers have only limited experience advertising on the Internet and have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures to Internet advertising. If this trend continues, the market for our existing services, which is dependent upon increased Internet advertising, may be adversely affected, which in turn will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may face third party intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in the loss of significant rights. Our current and future business activities, including implementation of MIVA Media's service or our private label service, may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, and third parties may assert infringement claims against us, including claims alleging, among other things, copyright, trademark, or patent infringement. We are aware of allegations from time to time concerning these types of claims and in particular in respect of trademark infringement claims. For example, certain potential claimants currently allege that they have trademark rights in certain keywords and that we violate these rights by allowing competitors of those potential claimants to bid on these keywords. While we believe that we have defenses to these claims under appropriate trademark legislation or, in certain circumstances, indemnification rights under our agreements with advertisers, we may not prevail in our defenses to any intellectual property infringement claims, and we may not be able to collect under any indemnification provisions relating to these claims, if any. In addition, we may not be adequately insured for any judgments awarded in connection with any litigation. Any such claims and resulting litigation could subject us from time to time to significant liability for damages, or result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we were to 24 prevail, these claims could be time-consuming, expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of our management's time and attention. We may face cultural pressures and legal challenges related to the content of the advertisements we display to Internet users on MIVA Media that could cause us to limit the display of such content in some jurisdictions, and, in the event of a legal challenge, could be costly to defend, may give rise to indemnification claims from our distribution partners and others, and, in all cases, could result in material losses. From time to time, we may experience cultural pressures or legal challenges with respect to the content of the advertisements displayed to Internet users on our MIVA Media Network. As a result of these cultural or legal challenges, we may decide to limit the display of the content in certain jurisdictions where such an issue has arisen. The limitation on the display of any content may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, third parties may make claims against us, our distribution partners and others affiliated with us in connection with the content of the advertisement displayed on our MIVA Media Network. Third party claims related to the content of the advertisements placed on our networks can be costly to defend, could result in our distribution partners and other affiliates asserting indemnification claims against us if they become a party to the suit, and could result in material losses for us, both as a result of paying our own legal costs and those of our indemnities, as applicable, associated with the defense against such claims, as well as any damages that may result if we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims. We may incur liabilities for the activities of users of our services. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and for the content of their advertisers' listings is currently unsettled and could harm our business. Our insurance policies may not provide coverage for liability for activities of our users or advertisers for the content of their listings. We may not successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for alleged unlawful activities carried out by consumers of our services or for the content of our listings. Our potential liability could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability or asserted liability could significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future experience significant volatility as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Each of the risk factors listed in this Part I, Item 1A—Risk Factors, and the following factors, may affect the market price for our common stock: •our quarterly results and ability to meet analysts' and our own published expectations; •our ability to continue to attract and retain users, advertisers and advertising agencies, and distribution partners; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure; •patents issued or not issued to us or our competitors; •announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances, mergers, acquisitions, dispositions, or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; 25 •commencement or threat of litigation or new legislation or regulation that adversely affects our business; •general economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to the Internet and Internet advertising; •our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •geopolitical events such as war, threat of war, or terrorist actions; •sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants; and •potential of industry consolidation in our sector. Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. In addition, advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Also, online user traffic tends to be seasonal. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that particularly have affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology and Internet companies. Frequently, these price and volume fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities such as we have recently experienced, securities class action litigation is often instituted against such a company, as we have recently had a number of such suits instituted against us. See "We have had a number of purported class action lawsuits filed against us and certain of our officers and directors alleging violations of securities laws." This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we experience lower-than-anticipated revenue in any particular quarter, or if we announce that we expect lower revenue or earnings than previously forecasted, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our revenue is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to many factors, including many that are outside of our control. Any significant revenue shortfall, lowered revenue or earnings forecast, or failure to meet analysts' expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Factors that could lower our revenue or affect our revenue and earnings forecast include: •the possibility that our customers may cancel, defer, or limit purchases as a result of reduced advertising budgets or weak and uncertain economic and industry conditions; •the potential for our competitors to gain market share; •the possibility that our distribution partners will introduce, market, and sell products and services that compete with our products and services; •the possibility that our distribution partners or affiliates of our distribution partners will cease displaying our advertisements or terminate their relationships with us, which would cause a decline in sales and a reduction in our revenue; 26 •the possibility that we will have to cease displaying advertisements through certain distribution partners and their affiliates whose traffic does not adequately convert to revenue for our advertisers; •the possibility that we will have to terminate our relationships with certain of our distribution partners or affiliates of our distribution partners that fail to adhere to our distribution guidelines or otherwise have breached their agreement with us; •the possibility that we fail to detect click-through fraud, which could cause us to have to refund revenue to our advertisers; •the possibility that new legislation will impact our business model, which would cause a decline in sales and a reduction in revenue; •pending or threatened litigation or governmental investigation, including the costs associated with or any adverse results of any such litigation or investigation or related indemnification obligations; •the timing of new product and service introductions by us and the market acceptance of new products and services, which may be delayed as a result of weak and uncertain economic and industry conditions; •the seasonal nature of our business; •the rate of adoption of new product and service offerings we introduce; •changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; •the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of terrorism, terrorism, or military actions taken by the United States or its allies, or from force de majeure events; and •potential of industry consolidation in our sector. Reliance should not be placed on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue or sales in any given quarter, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses quickly in response. Therefore, any significant shortfall in our revenues could have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations for that quarter. In addition, if we fail to manage our business effectively over the long term, we may experience high operating expenses, and our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could result in a substantial decline in the market price of our common stock. Significant dilution will occur if outstanding options are exercised or restricted stock unit grants vest. As of December 31, 2007, we had stock options outstanding to purchase a total of approximately 1.9 million shares at an average weighted price of $9.85 per share under our stock incentive plans. Also, as of December 31, 2007, we had 1,588,549 restricted stock units outstanding including approximately 262,560 in restricted stock units that would vest in equal tranches upon the Company's common stock reaching, and closing, at share prices at or exceeding $8.00, $10.00, and $12.00, respectively, for ten consecutive trading days. The remaining approximate 1.3 million restricted stock units will vest predominately over the next three years in equal increments. 27 Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue additional shares of stock, which could impede a change of control that is beneficial to our stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to 200 million shares of common stock that may be issued by our board of directors for such consideration as they may consider sufficient without seeking stockholder approval, subject to stock exchange rules and regulations. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our board of directors. These designations may be made without stockholder approval. The designation and issuance of preferred stock in the future could create additional securities that have dividend and liquidation preferences prior in right to the outstanding shares of common stock. These provisions could be used by our board to impede a non-negotiated change in control, even though such a transaction may be beneficial to holders of our securities, and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares at a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. The potential inability of our shareholders to obtain a control premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. We have had a number of purported class action lawsuits filed against us and certain of our officers and directors alleging violations of securities laws. Beginning on May 6, 2005, five putative securities fraud class action lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The complaints allege that we and the individual defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act") and that the individual defendants also violated Section 20(a) of the Act as "control persons" of MIVA. Plaintiffs purport to bring these claims on behalf of a class of our investors who purchased our stock between September 3, 2003 and May 4, 2005. Plaintiffs allege generally that, during the putative class period, we made misleading statements and omitted material information regarding (1) the goodwill associated with a recent acquisition, (2) certain material weaknesses in our internal controls, and (3) the Internet traffic generated by and business relationships with certain distribution partners. Plaintiffs assert that we and the individual defendants made these misstatements and omissions in order to keep our stock price high to allow certain individual defendants to sell stock at an artificially inflated price. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. If it is determined that we or our officers or directors have engaged in the types of activities alleged by these plaintiffs, we and our officers and directors could be subject to damages and may be subject to further prosecution. Regardless of the outcome, these litigations could have a material adverse impact on us because of harm to our reputation, defense costs, diversion of management's attention and resources, and other factors. A putative derivative action has been filed against certain of our officers and directors, purportedly on behalf of the Company. On July 25, 2005, a shareholder, Bruce Verduyn, filed a putative derivative action purportedly on behalf of us in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, against certain of our directors and officers. This action is based on substantially the same facts alleged in the securities class action litigation described above. The complaint is seeking to recover damages in an unspecified amount. If it is determined that our officers or directors have engaged in the types of activities alleged in the putative derivative action, our officers and directors could be subject to damages and may be subject to further prosecution. We have agreed to indemnify our officers and directors in connection with the defense of this action. Accordingly, regardless of the outcome, this litigation could have a material adverse impact on us because of harm to our reputation, defense costs, diversion of management's attention and resources, and other factors. 28 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 