ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the risk factors that we believe are most relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ significantly from anticipated or historical results. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common shares could decline and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, unless required by law. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive and highly regulated industries in which we operate. We face intense competition in providing web hosting services, processing electronic payments and originating SBA loans, as well as in the other industries in which we or our affiliated companies operate. Low barriers to entry often result in a steady stream of new competitors entering certain of these businesses. Current and potential competitors are or may be better established, substantially larger and have more capital and other resources than we do. If we expand into additional geographical markets, we will face competition from others in those markets as well. In addition, some of the industries in which we operate are highly regulated and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be in full compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Failure to maintain full compliance or if new laws limit or eliminate some of the benefits of our business lines, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our success depends upon our ability to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including both patentable and non-patentable intellectual property related to our NewTracker referral system. We have filed one patent application with the United States Patent office but there can be no assurance that such patent will be granted. To the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. We have several trademarks and service marks which are of material importance to us. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of our efforts, may be necessary to enforce our trademarks or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Adverse determinations in any litigation or interference proceeding could subject us to costs related to changing brand names and a loss of established brand recognition. Our businesses depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and any loss of ability to attract these personnel could adversely affect us. Our success depends upon the ability of our affiliated companies and other companies in which we invest to attract and retain qualified personnel and our ability to supplement those capabilities with our senior management personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If our affiliated companies lose the services of key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of us or one or more of our affiliated companies could be materially adversely affected. It can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. Our business relies heavily on the expertise of our senior management. The loss of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and it is likely that it will be difficult to find adequate replacements. Our businesses depend upon the ability to utilize the Internet for the conduct of a significant portion of their business; disruption to that system could make it impossible for them to continue to conduct their current businesses. Possible disruption to the normal functioning of the Internet through, for example, power failure or terrorist sabotage, could make it impossible for aspects of the lending, electronic payment processing, web hosting and in fact our referral system to function. In the event of a major disruption, and assuming that such disruptions would be long-lived, we would be required to make extensive changes in the way these companies do business. There is no assurance that we will have the time and resources to make these changes. Our success depends on our ability to use effectively our electronic referral and information processing systems. We have developed an electronic referral and processing system for the applications necessary for the sales of each of our business lines other than web site hosting. This system is critical to our ability to process such business with a low cost advantage and to obtain referrals from our alliance partners. In particular, the ability to access the referral system and to track the progress of a referred customer is a major feature of the perceived attractiveness of our system. If this referral system should develop problems which we cannot address, it would have a material negative impact on our business strategy. In addition, our ability to provide business services increasingly depends on our capacity to store, retrieve, process and manage significant amounts of data. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment and software systems, telecommunications failure or damage caused by acts of nature or other disruption, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ELECTRONIC PAYMENT PROCESSING BUSINESS NMS relies on two bank sponsors, which have substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, in order to process bankcard transactions. If either sponsorship is terminated, and we are not able to secure or transfer the respective merchant portfolios to new bank sponsors, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of electronic payment processing business could be materially adversely affected. If both sponsorships are terminated, and we are not able to secure or transfer the merchant portfolios to new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our electronic payment processing business. We also rely on service providers who are critical to our business. 12 Table of Contents Because we are not a bank, we are unable to belong to and directly access the Visa® and MasterCard® bankcard associations. The Visa® and MasterCard® operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bankcard transactions. We are currently sponsored by two banks. If either sponsorship is terminated and we are unable to secure a bank sponsor for the respective merchant portfolios, we will not be able to process bankcard transactions for the affected portfolios. If both sponsorships are terminated and we are unable to secure a bank sponsor for the merchant portfolios, we will not be able to process bankcard transactions. Consequently, the loss of either or both of our sponsorships would have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, our agreement with our sponsoring bank gives the sponsoring bank substantial discretion in approving certain elements of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants, the terms of our agreements with merchants, the processing fees that we charge, our customer service levels and our use of independent sales organizations and independent sales agents. We cannot guarantee that our sponsoring bank’s actions under these agreements will not be detrimental to us. Other service providers, some of whom are our competitors, are necessary for the conduct of our business. The termination by our service providers of these arrangements with us or their failure to perform these services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the merchants whose accounts we serve and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. If NMS or its processors or bank sponsor fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa® and MasterCard® bankcard associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa® and MasterCard®. Substantially all of the transactions NMS processes involve Visa® or MasterCard®. If we, our bank sponsor or our processors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa® and MasterCard® bankcard associations, Visa® or MasterCard® could suspend or terminate our registration. The termination of our registration or any changes in the Visa® or MasterCard® rules that would impair our registration could require us to stop providing payment processing services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. On occasion, NMS experiences increases in interchange and sponsorship fees. If we cannot pass along these increases to our merchants, our profit margins will be reduced. Our electronic payment processing subsidiary pays interchange fees or assessments to bankcard associations for each transaction we process using their credit, debit and gift cards. From time to time, the bankcard associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks, who generally pass on such increases to us. From time to time, our sponsoring banks increase their fees as well. If we are not able to pass these fee increases along to merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees, our profit margins in this line of business will be reduced. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant or cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and business losses. Through our electronic payment processing subsidiary, we collect and store sensitive data about merchants and cardholders, and we maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including payment, card numbers and cardholder addresses, in order to process the transactions and for fraud prevention and other internal processes. If anyone penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive merchant or cardholder data, we could be subject to liability or business interruption. While we subject these systems to periodic independent testing and review, we cannot guarantee that our systems will not be penetrated in the future. If a breach of our system occurs, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. Similar risks exist with regard to the storage and transmission of such data by our processors. In the event of any such a breach, we may also be subject to a class action lawsuit. Small businesses are less prepared for the complexities of safeguarding cardholder data than their larger counterparts. In the event of noncompliance by a customer of card industry rules, we could face fines from payment card networks. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover any such fines from such customer. NMS is liable if our processing merchants refuse or cannot reimburse charge-backs resolved in favor of their customers. If a billing dispute between a merchant and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction is “charged back” to the merchant’s bank and credited to the account of the cardholder. If we or our processing banks are unable to collect the charge-back from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable due to bankruptcy or other reasons to reimburse the merchant’s bank for the charge-back, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the 13 Table of Contents cardholder’s bank. Most of our merchants deliver products or services when purchased, so a contingent liability for charge-backs is unlikely to arise, and credits are issued on returned items. However, some of our merchants do not provide services until sometime after a purchase, which increases the potential for contingent liability and the reserves we require of the merchants may not be sufficient to cover the liability or may not even be available to us in the event of a bankruptcy. NMS has potential liability for customer or merchant fraud. Credit card fraud occurs when a merchant’s customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present transaction) to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant receives authorization for the transaction, the merchant is liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Many of our business customers are small and transact a substantial percentage of their sales over the Internet or by telephone or mail orders. Because their sales are card-not-present transactions, these merchants are more vulnerable to customer fraud than larger merchants, and we could experience charge-backs arising from cardholder fraud more frequently with these merchants. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Anytime a merchant is unable to satisfy a charge-back, we are responsible for that charge-back. We cannot assure that the systems and procedures we have established to detect and reduce the impact of merchant fraud are or will be effective. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase our charge-back liability. Our payment processing systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our business or cause us to lose business and likely increase our costs. We depend on the uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems, software and our processors’ data centers. Defects in these systems or damage to them due to factors beyond our control could cause severe disruption to our business and other material adverse effects on our payment processing businesses. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS OF WEBSITE HOSTING NTS operates in a highly competitive industry in which technological change can be rapid. The information technology business and its related technology involve a broad range of rapidly changing technologies. Our equipment and the technologies on which it is based may not remain competitive over time, and others may develop superior technologies that render our products non-competitive without significant additional capital expenditures. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater market presence as well as greater financial, technical, operational, marketing and other resources and experience than we do. In the event that such a competitor expends significant sales and marketing resources in one or several markets, we may not be able to compete successfully in such markets. We believe that competition will continue to increase, placing downward pressure on prices. Such pressure could adversely affect our gross margins if we are not able to reduce our costs commensurate with such price reductions. There can be no assurances that we will remain competitive. Our website hosting business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. Despite precautions taken by NTS against possible failure of its systems, interruptions could result from natural disasters, power loss, the inability to acquire fuel for our backup generators, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. NTS also leases telecommunications lines from local, regional and national carriers whose service may be interrupted. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations. There can be no assurance that our insurance will cover all of the losses or compensate NTS for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that NTS is unable to provide service. Our inability to maintain the integrity of our infrastructure and the privacy of confidential information would materially affect our business. The NTS infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If our security measures are circumvented, it could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on NTS’s systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in NTS’s operations. We may be required to make significant additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information 14 Table of Contents could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. The security services that NTS offers in connection with customers’ networks cannot assure complete protection from computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptive problems. The occurrence of these problems may result in claims against NTS or us or liability on our part. These claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in costly litigation and could harm our business and reputation and impair NTS’s ability to attract and retain customers. Our business depends on Microsoft Corporation and others for the licenses to use software as well as other intellectual property in the website hosting business. NTS’s managed technology business is built on technological platforms relying on the Microsoft Windows® products and other intellectual property that NTS currently licenses. As a result, if we are unable to continue to have the benefit of those licensing arrangements or if the products upon which NTS’s platform is built become obsolete, our business could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SMALL BUSINESS FINANCE BUSINESSES We depend on outside financing. Our SBA lending and receivables financing businesses depend on outside financing to support their loan making and acquisition of receivables. Termination of the credit lines for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business, including but not limited to, the liquidation of the guaranteed loan and receivables portfolios to pay down the lines. If funds from such sale were insufficient to completely pay down the line of credit, the holding company and certain of its subsidiaries would be responsible for any short fall. In December 2010 and again in December 2011, the Company securitized a portion of its unguaranteed, retained loan portions of its SBA 7(a) loans; the Company anticipates using securitizations to ultimately fund future loan creation, assuming the market for such securitizations continues to exist and future securitizations can be executed on an economic basis beneficial to the Company. Although a securitization potentially provides a long term funding source for the Company’s SBA lender, it does not provide liquidity in the short term for funding SBA loans. Because its resources will be insufficient to maintain current SBA loan originations, failure of our SBA lender to arrange a line to fund and warehouse the origination of unguaranteed, retained loan portions would materially impact our business. In addition, our receivables financing company depends on a line of credit which matures in February 2014. Loss of this line and our inability to replace it would materially impact the business. We have specific risks associated with Small Business Administration (SBA) loans. We have generally sold the guaranteed portion of SBA loans in the secondary market. Such sales have resulted in our earning premiums and creating a stream of servicing income. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue originating these loans, or that a secondary market will exist for, or that we will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portions of the SBA 7(a) loans. Since we sell the guaranteed portion of substantially our entire SBA 7(a) loan portfolio, we incur credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the SBA loans. We share pro rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, our pursuit of remedies against a borrower is subject to SBA approval, and where the SBA establishes that its loss is attributable to deficiencies in the manner in which the loan application has been prepared and submitted, the SBA may decline to honor its guarantee with respect to our SBA loans or it may seek the recovery of damages from us. If we should experience significant problems with our underwriting of SBA loans, such failure to honor a guarantee or the cost to correct the problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Although the SBA has never declined to honor its guarantees with respect to SBA loans made by us since our acquisition of the lender in 2003, no assurance can be given that the SBA would not attempt to do so in the future. Curtailment of the government-guaranteed loan programs could cut off an important segment of our business. Although the program has been in existence since 1953, there can be no assurance that the federal government will maintain the SBA program, or that it will continue to guarantee loans at current levels. If we cannot continue making and selling government-guaranteed loans, we will generate fewer origination fees and our ability to generate gains on sale of loans will decrease. From time-to-time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal budgeted limits and cease to guarantee loans for a stated time period. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans. Also, Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to small business and industrial borrowers of the types that now qualify for government-guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans. 15 Table of Contents An increase in non-performing assets would reduce our income and increase our expenses. If our level of non-performing assets in our SBA lending and receivable financing businesses rise in the future, it could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Non-performing assets are primarily loans on which borrowers are not making their required payments or receivables for which the customer has not made timely payment. Non-performing assets also include loans that have been restructured to permit the borrower to have smaller payments and real estate that has been acquired through foreclosure of unpaid loans. To the extent that our financial assets are non-performing, we will have less cash available for lending and other activities. Our reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover unexpected losses. Our business depends on the behavior of our customers. In addition to our credit practices and procedures, we maintain a reserve for credit losses on our SBA loans and accounts receivable portfolio, which management has judged to be adequate given the loans we originate and receivables we purchase. We periodically review our reserve for adequacy considering current economic conditions and trends, collateral values, charge-off experience, levels of past due loans and non-performing assets, and we adjust our reserve accordingly. However, because of the poor current economic conditions caused by the recession, our reserves may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by weakness in the residential housing and commercial real estate markets. Continued weakness in residential home and commercial real estate values could impair our ability to collect on defaulted SBA loans as real estate is pledged in many of our SBA loans as part of the collateral package. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INSURANCE AGENCY BUSINESS We depend on third parties, particularly property and casualty insurance companies, to supply the products marketed by our agents. Our contracts with property and casualty insurance companies typically provide that the contracts can be terminated by the supplier without cause. Our inability to enter into satisfactory arrangements with these suppliers or the loss of these relationships for any reason would adversely affect the results of our new insurance business. Also, our inability to obtain these products at competitive prices could make it difficult for us to compete with larger and better capitalized providers of such insurance services. If we fail to comply with government regulations, our insurance agency business could be adversely affected. Our insurance agency business is subject to comprehensive regulation in the various states in which we plan to conduct business. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to satisfy these regulations and to obtain and maintain all required licenses and permits. Our failure to comply with any statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of current statutes and regulations or the expansion of our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than those in which we currently conduct business could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have any control over the commissions our insurance agency expects to earn on the sale of insurance products which are based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers and the conditions prevalent in the insurance market. Our insurance agency earns commissions on the sale of insurance products. Commission rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. In addition, the insurance industry has been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity and periods of favorable premium levels due to shortages of capacity. We cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in commission rates or premiums or the effect any of these changes will have on the operations of our insurance agency. RISKS RELATING TO OUR PAYROLL PROCESSING BUSINESS Unauthorized disclosure of employee data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and business losses. Through our payroll processing subsidiary, we collect and store sensitive data about individuals, in order to process the transactions and for other internal processes. If anyone penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive individual data, we could be subject to liability or business interruption. While we subject these systems to periodic independent testing and review, 16 Table of Contents we cannot guarantee that our systems will not be penetrated in the future. If a breach of our system occurs, we may be subject to liability, including claims for impersonation or other similar fraud claims. In the event of any such a breach, we may also be subject to a class action lawsuit. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation, and the growth of our business could be adversely affected. Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect our business and reputation. Our payroll business relies heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. We have disaster recovery plans in place to protect our businesses against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite our preparations, our disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, and disruptions to our operations or damage to our important facilities. If we fail to adapt our technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our services may diminish. Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance and expand our existing solutions and services. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges, the demand for our services may diminish. Our payroll business could incur unreimbursed costs or damages due to delays in processing inherent in the banking system. Our payroll processing business generally determines the availability of customer (employer) funds prior to making payments to employees or taxing authorities, and such employer funds are generally transferred in to our accounts prior to making payments out. Due to the structure of the banking system however, there are times when we may make payroll or tax payments and not immediately receive the funds to do so from the employer. There can be no assurance that the procedures we have in place to prevent these occurrences or mitigate the damages will be sufficient to prevent loss to our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPCO BUSINESS The Capco programs and the tax credits they provide are created by state legislation and implemented through regulation, and such laws and rules are subject to possible action to repeal or retroactively revise the programs for political, economic or other reasons. Such an attempted repeal or revision would create substantial difficulty for the Capco programs and could, if ultimately successful, cause us material financial harm. The tax credits associated with the Capco programs and provided to our Capcos’ investors are to be utilized by the investors over a period of time, which is typically ten years. Much can change during such a period and it is possible that one or more states may revise or eliminate the tax credits. Any such revision or repeal could have a material adverse economic impact on our Capcos, either directly or as a result of the Capco’s insurer’s actions. Any such final state action that jeopardizes the tax credits could result in the provider of our Capco insurance assuming partial of full control of the particular Capco in order to minimize its liability under the Capco insurance policies issued to our investors. During 2002, a single legislator in Louisiana introduced such a proposed bill, on which no action was taken, and in Colorado in 2003 and 2004 bills to modify (not repeal) its Capco program were introduced; the 2003 Colorado legislation was defeated in a legislative committee. The 2004 Colorado legislation was adopted but implementing regulations made clear the application of the new rules only to investments made after passage. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to further legislative or regulatory action which might adversely impact our Capco business, or that we will be able to successfully challenge any such action. Because our Capcos are subject to requirements under state law, a failure of any of them to meet these requirements could subject the Capco and our stockholders to the loss of one or more Capcos. Despite the fact that we have met all applicable minimum requirements of the Capco programs in which we still participate, each Capco remains subject to state regulation until it has invested 100 percent of its funds and otherwise remained in full legal compliance. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so. A major regulatory violation, while not fatal to our Capco business, would materially increase the cost of operating the Capcos. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON SHARES Our shares may be delisted. If we do not continue to meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market our common shares could be delisted. One such requirement is maintaining a minimum bid price for shares of $1.00. As compliance with the minimum trading price for common shares is beyond our control, there can be no assurance that the price will remain above $1.00 indefinitely and, therefore, no assurance that the threat of delisting can be avoided. In the event that the common shares are delisted, there can be no assurance that an active public market for our shares can be sustained or that current trading levels can be sustained or not diminished. The application of the “penny stock” rules to our common shares if we are no longer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market could limit the trading and liquidity of the common shares, adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. If we are no longer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, as long as the trading price of our common shares is below $5.00 per share, open-market trading will be subject to the “penny stock” rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors and otherwise have the effect of limiting the trading activity of the common shares, reducing the liquidity of an investment in the common shares and increasing the transaction costs for their sales and purchases. Two of our stockholders, one a current and one a former executive officer, beneficially own approximately 24% of our common shares, and are able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of most stockholder actions. Although there is no agreement or understanding between them, because of their ownership of our shares, Messrs. Sloane and Rubin will be able to have significant influence over actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation, approval of stock incentive plans and approval of major transactions such as a merger or sale of assets. This could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a change in control and have a negative effect on the market price of our common shares. Future issuances of our common shares or other securities, including preferred shares, may dilute the per share book value of our common shares or have other adverse consequences to our common stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority, without the action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or part of the approximately 19,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Our business strategy relies upon investments in and acquisitions of businesses using the resources available to us, including our common shares. We have made acquisitions during each of the years from 2002 to 2005 involving the issuance of our common shares and we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future using our common shares. Additionally, we anticipate granting additional options or restricted stock awards to our employees and directors in the future. We may also issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise capital to support our growth, including in connection with possible acquisitions or in connection with purchases of minority interests in affiliated companies or Capcos. Future issuances of our common shares will dilute the percentage of ownership interest of current stockholders and could decrease the per share book value of our common shares. In addition, option holders may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue, without action or vote of our stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred shares, meaning that our board of directors may, in its discretion, cause the issuance of one or more series of preferred shares and fix the designations, preferences, powers and relative participating, optional and other rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, including the dividend rate, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and liquidation preference, and to fix the number of shares to be included in any such series. The preferred shares so issued may rank superior to the common shares with respect to the payment of dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or both. In addition, the shares of preferred stock may have class or series voting rights. The authorization and issuance of “blank check” preferred shares could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue preferred shares with rights and preferences set by the board without further stockholder approval. The issuance of these “blank check” preferred shares could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our stockholders. For example, in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, it may be possible for 18 Table of Contents management and the board to impede the attempt by issuing the preferred shares, thereby diluting or impairing the voting power of the other outstanding common shares and increasing the potential costs to acquire control of us. Our board has the right to issue any new shares, including preferred shares, without first offering them to the holders of common shares, as they have no preemptive rights. We know of no other publicly-held company that sponsors and operates Capcos as a material part of its business. As such, there are, to our knowledge, no other companies against which investors may compare our Capco business segment, and its operations, results of operations and financial and accounting structures. In the absence of any meaningful peer group comparisons for our Capco business, investors may have a difficult time understanding and judging the strength of our business. This, in turn, may have a depressing effect on the value of our shares. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and New York law place restrictions on our stockholders’ ability to recover from our directors for breaches of their duties. As permitted by New York law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of these provisions and New York law, stockholders have restrictions and limitations upon their rights to recover from directors for breaches of their duties. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we must indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 