Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.1Table of ContentsPART IItem 1.BusinessOverviewWe are a leading provider of optical subsystems and components that are used to interconnect equipment in short-distance local area networks, or LANs, storage area networks, or SANs, longer distance metropolitan area networks, or MANs, fiber-to-the-home networks, or FTTx, cable television networks, or CATV, and wide area networks, or WANs. Our optical subsystems consist primarily of transmitters, receivers, transceivers and transponders which provide the fundamental optical-electrical interface for connecting the equipment used in building these networks, including switches, routers and file servers used in wireline networks as well as antennas and base stations for wireless networks. These products rely on the use of semiconductor lasers and photodetectors in conjunction with integrated circuit design and novel packaging technology to provide a cost-effective means for transmitting and receiving digital signals over fiber optic cable at speeds ranging from less than 1 gigabit per second, or Gbps, to 100 Gbps, using a wide range of network protocols and physical configurations over distances of 70 meters to 200 kilometers. We supply optical transceivers and transponders that allow point-to-point communications on a fiber using a single specified wavelength or, bundled with multiplexing technologies, can be used to supply multi-gigabit bandwidth over several wavelengths on the same fiber. We also provide products known as wavelength selective switches, or WSS, that are used for dynamically switching network traffic from one optical wavelength to another across multiple wavelengths without first converting to an electrical signal. These products are sometimes combined with other components and sold as linecards, also known as reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers, or ROADMs. Our line of optical components consists primarily of packaged lasers and photodetectors used in transceivers, primarily for LAN and SAN applications, and passive optical components used in building MANs. Demand for our products is largely driven by the continually growing need for additional bandwidth created by the ongoing proliferation of data and video traffic that must be handled by both wireline and wireless networks.Our manufacturing operations are vertically integrated and we utilize internal sources for many of the key components used in making our products including lasers, photodetectors and integrated circuits, or ICs, designed by our own internal IC engineering teams. We also have internal assembly and test capabilities that make use of internally designed equipment for the automated testing of our optical subsystems and components.We sell our optical products to manufacturers of storage systems, networking equipment and telecommunications equipment or their contract manufacturers, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade, Cisco Systems, EMC, Emulex, Ericsson, Hewlett-Packard Company, Huawei, IBM, Juniper, Qlogic, Siemens and Tellabs. These customers, in turn, sell their systems to businesses and to wireline and wireless telecommunications service providers and cable TV operators, collectively referred to as carriers.We were incorporated in California in April 1987 and reincorporated in Delaware in November 1999. Our principal executive offices are located at 1389 Moffett Park Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94089, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 548-1000.All references to “Finisar,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are references to Finisar Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively, except as otherwise indicated or where the context otherwise requires.Industry Background and MarketsIndustry BackgroundComputer networks are frequently described in terms of the distance they span and by the hardware and software protocols used to transport and store data. The physical medium through which signals are best transmitted over these networks depends on the amount of data to be transmitted, expressed as Gbps, and the distance involved. Voice-grade copper wire can only support connections of about 1.2 miles without the use of repeaters to amplify the signal, whereas optical systems can carry signals in excess of 60 miles without further processing. Early computer networks had relatively limited performance requirements, short connection distances and low transmission speeds and, therefore, relied almost exclusively on copper wire as the medium of choice. At speeds of more than 1 Gbps, the ability of copper wire to transmit more than 300 meters is limited due to the loss of signal over distance as well as interference from external signal generating equipment. The proliferation of electronic commerce, communications and broadband entertainment has resulted in the digitization and accumulation of enormous amounts of data. Thus, while copper continues to be the primary medium used for delivering signals to the desktop, even at 1 Gbps, the need to quickly transmit, store and retrieve large blocks of data across networks in a cost-effective manner has increasingly required enterprises and service providers to use fiber optic technology to transmit data at higher speeds over greater distances and to expand the capacity, or bandwith, of their networks. There are three principal categories of networks: LANs and SANs, MANs and WANs. 2Table of ContentsLANs and SANsA LAN typically consists of a group of computers and other devices that share the resources of one or more processors or servers within a small geographic area and are connected through the use of hubs (used for broadcasting data within a LAN), switches (used for sending data to a specific destination in a LAN) and routers (used as gateways to route data packets between two or more LANs or other large networks). LANs typically use the Ethernet protocol to transport data packets across the network at distances of up to 500 meters at speeds of 1 to 10 Gbps.A SAN is a high-speed subnetwork embedded within a LAN where critical data stored on devices such as disk arrays, optical disks and tape backup devices is made available to all servers on the LAN thereby freeing the network servers to deliver business applications, increasing network capacity and improving response time. SANs were originally developed using the Fibre Channel protocol designed for storing and retrieving large blocks of data. A number of new storage technologies have been introduced to lower the cost and complexity of deploying Fibre Channel-based storage networks. Since its introduction in 2003, small and medium size storage networks have been developed based on the Internet Small Computer System Interface protocol, or iSCSI. In 2007, the Fibre Channel over Ethernet standard, or FCoE, was introduced which enables Fibre Channel data packets to be encapsulated within Enhanced Ethernet frames. This standard utilizes the additional bandwidth created at transmission speeds of 10 Gbps and higher to combine different types of data traffic for storage (Fibre Channel), LAN traffic (TCP/IP) and various server clustering protocols (Infiniband) that previously required their own separate infrastructure within a data center. As a result, FCoE enables the creation of a single converged network within a data center, rather than two or three networks as previously required. In addition, the FCoE protocol utilizes recently developed Ethernet-based technology for transmitting signals at speeds of 40 and 100 Gbps.Due to the cost effectiveness of the optical technologies involved, transceivers for both LANs and SANs have been developed using vertical cavity surface emitting lasers, or VCSELs, to transmit and receive signals at the 850 nanometer, or nm, wavelength over relatively short distances through multi-mode fiber. Most LANs and SANs operating today at 1, 2, 4 and 8 Gbps over distances of up to 70 meters, incorporate this VCSEL technology. The same technology is now being employed to build FCoE and iSCSI-based LANs and SANs operating at 10 Gbps.A new market has emerged in recent years for the use of parallel optics technologies for high-capacity telecommunications applications to connect with core internet protocol, or IP, routers, in the data center to interconnect SANs and servers and for high-performance computing clusters. This technology makes use of an array of lasers and photodetectors, instead of one per transceiver, to boost the amount of data that can be transmitted over a single fiber over very short distances. Optical interconnects provide an attractive alternative to bulky copper cables as data rate and port densities increase allowing for fewer connections. Like the transceivers used for LANs and SANs, parallel optical solutions rely primarily on the use of VCSEL technology. A variation of parallel optics technology called active optical cable, or AOC, was introduced by several vendors in late 2007. These products eliminate the use of fiber connectors used in other parallel optical modules by bonding the fibers directly to the optical subassembly. The demand for optical subsystems and components used in building LANs and SANs is driven primarily by the need of business enterprises to meet the increasing demands for information which must be stored and retrieved in a timely manner and made available to users located within a building or campus. Because SANs enable the sharing of resources thereby reducing the required investment in storage infrastructure, the continued growth in stored data is expected to result in the ongoing centralization of storage and the need to deploy larger SANs. The centralization of storage, in turn, is increasing the demand for higher-bandwidth solutions to provide faster, more efficient interconnection of data storage systems with servers and LANs as well as the need to connect at higher speeds over longer distances for disaster recovery applications.MANs and WANsA MAN is a regional data network typically covering an area of up to 50 kilometers in diameter that allows the sharing of computing resources on a regional basis within a town or city. These Metro networks are typically arranged in a ring configuration that can ultimately transmit data around metropolitan areas over hundreds of kilometers. MANs typically use the SONET and SDH communications standards to encapsulate data to be transmitted over fiber optic cable due to the widespread use of this standard in legacy telecommunication networks. However, increasingly, wavelength division multiplexing (or WDM) is used to increase the throughput on a given fiber. MANs can also be built using the Ethernet standard, also known as Metro Ethernet, which can typically result in savings to the network operator in terms of network infrastructure and operating costs. The demand for products used to build MANs is driven primarily by service providers as they seek to upgrade or build new networks to handle the growth in the bandwidth demands of business and residential users. The portion of a MAN that connects a LAN or SAN to a public data network is frequently referred to as the Last Mile or Access portion of a network. There are several means that carriers employ to provide integrated voice, video and data services to customers over this portion of the network. The more popular means include CATV and passive optical networks, or PONs. 3Table of ContentsBoth PONs and CATV employ the use of fiber optic technologies in providing these services. Today, there are three standardized versions of PON based on network speeds: Broadband PON, or BPON, operating at .6 Gbps, Ethernet PON, or EPON, operating at 1 Gbps and Gigabit PON, or GPON, operating at 2.5 Gbps. CATV is a shared cable system that uses RF signals to deliver services over a tree-and-branch topology in which multiple households within a neighborhood share the same cable. While early CATV systems were all coaxial cable, current systems increasingly employ fiber optic cable to overcome attenuation of signals over long distances and problems related to aging components. Fiber optic cable also provides more bandwidth for future expansion. This dual system is called a hybrid fiber coax, or HFC. Due to the shared-nature of a CATV network and the use of RF signal technology, these networks typically utilize analog lasers in conjunction with optical amplifiers to deliver these services.A wide area network, or WAN, is a geographically dispersed data communications network that typically includes the use of a public shared user network such as the telephone system, although a WAN can also be built using leased lines or satellites. Similar to MANs, a terrestrial WAN uses the SONET/SDH communications standard to transmit information over longer distances due to its use in legacy telecommunication networks.Demand for Optical Products Used in Wireless NetworksWireless networks typically use fiber optic transmission to backhaul wireless traffic to the central office for switching. According to the Cisco Visual Network Index, mobile data traffic alone is expected to roughly double each year from 2008 through 2013 largely as a result of the deployment of mobile network devices which offer enhanced communication services, including the ability to download video files as well as offering voice, data and internet connectivity. To meet these bandwidth demands, next generation wireless networks, or 3G, are being deployed which expand the use of fiber optic technologies from backhauling mobile traffic out of base stations to being used in cellular towers to reduce the weight of copper-based solutions while expanding their bandwidth capabilities.Business StrategyWe have become a leading supplier of optical products to manufacturers of LAN and SAN networking equipment due in part to our early work in the development of the Fibre Channel standard in the mid-1990s as well as our pioneering work in developing transceivers using VCSEL technology. As part of our business strategy, we continue to actively serve on various standards committees in helping to influence the use of new cost-effective optical technologies. In more recent years, we have become a leading vendor in SONET/SDH, WDM and ROADM networking equipment, due largely to our efforts with respect to XFP form factor modules, our expertise in designing tunable modules, and our novel approach to WSS modules using liquid crystal on silicon, or LCoS.We have developed a vertically integrated business model that operates best when our module and laser production facilities are highly utilized. In order to maintain our position as a leading supplier of fiber optic subsystems and components, we are continuing to pursue the following business strategies:•Continue to Invest in or Acquire Critical Technologies. Our years of engineering experience, our multi-disciplinary technical expertise and our participation in the development of industry standards have enabled us to become a leader in the design and development of fiber optic subsystems and components. We have developed and acquired critical skills that we believe are essential to maintain a technological lead in our markets including high speed semiconductor laser design and wafer fabrication, complex logic and mixed signal integrated circuit design, optical subassembly design, software coding, system design, and manufacturing test design. In the process of investing in or acquiring critical technologies, we have obtained a number of U.S. and foreign patents with other patent applications pending. We intend to maintain our technological leadership through continual enhancement of our existing products and the development or acquisition of new products, especially those capable of higher speed transmission of data, with greater capacity, over longer distances.•Expand Our Broad Product Line of Optical Subsystems. We offer one of the broadest portfolios of optical subsystems which support a wide range of speeds, fiber types, voltages, wavelengths, distances and functionality and are available in a variety of industry standard packaging configurations, or form factors. Our optical subsystems are designed to comply with key networking protocols such as Fibre Channel, Gigabit Ethernet (including 1Gig, 10Gig, 40Gig and 100Gig Ethernet) and SONET/SDH and to plug directly into standard port configurations used in our customers’ products. The breadth of our optical subsystems product line is important to many of our customers who are seeking to consolidate their supply sources for a wide range of networking products for diverse applications, and we are focused on the ongoing expansion of our product line to add key products to meet our customers’ needs, particularly for 10Gig Ethernet and SONET/SDH applications. Where time-to-market considerations are especially important in order to secure or enhance our supplier relationships with key customers, we may elect to acquire additional product lines.•Leverage Core Competencies Across Multiple, High-Growth Markets. We believe that fiber optic technology will 4Table of Contentsremain the transmission technology of choice for multiple data communication markets, including 1 Gigabit Ethernet and 10Gig, 40Gig and 100Gig Ethernet-based LANs and MANs, Fibre Channel-based SANs and SONET/SDH-based MANs and WANs. These markets are characterized by differentiated applications with unique design criteria such as product function, performance, cost, in-system monitoring, size limitations, physical medium and software. We intend to target opportunities where our core competencies in high-speed data transmission protocols can be leveraged into leadership positions as these technologies are extended across multiple data communications applications and into other markets and industries such as automotive and consumer electronics products.•Strengthen and Expand Customer Relationships. Over the past 20 years, we have established valuable relationships and a loyal base of customers by providing high-quality products and superior service. Our service-oriented approach has allowed us to work closely with leading data and storage network system manufacturers, understand and address their current needs and anticipate their future requirements. We intend to leverage our relationships with our existing customers as they enter new, high-speed data communications markets.•Continue to Strengthen Our Lower-Cost Manufacturing Capabilities. We believe that new markets can be created by the introduction of new, lower-cost, high value-added products. Lower product costs can be achieved through the introduction of new technologies, product design or market presence. Access to low-cost manufacturing resources is a key factor in the ability to offer a lower-cost product solution. We have manufacturing facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia and Shanghai, China in order to take advantage of lower-cost, off-shore labor while protecting access to our intellectual property and know-how. In addition, access to critical underlying technologies, such as our laser manufacturing and IC design capabilities enables us to accelerate our product development efforts to be able to introduce new low cost products more quickly. We continue to seek ways to lower our production costs through improved product design, improved manufacturing and testing processes and increased vertical integration.ProductsOur optical subsystems are integrated into our customers’ systems and used for both short- and intermediate-distance fiber optic communications applications.Our family of optical subsystem products consists of transmitters, receivers, transceivers and transponders principally based on the Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel and SONET/SDH protocols. A transmitter converts electrical signals into optical signals for transmission over fiber optics. Receivers incorporating photo detectors convert incoming optical signals into electric signals. A transceiver combines both transmitter and receiver functions in a single device. A transponder includes an IC to provide the serializer-deserializer function that otherwise resides in the customer’s equipment if a transceiver is used. Our optical subsystem products perform these functions with high reliability and data integrity and support a wide range of protocols, transmission speeds, fiber types, wavelengths, transmission distances, physical configurations and software enhancements.Our high-speed fiber optic subsystems are engineered to deliver value-added functionality and intelligence. Most of our optical subsystem products include a microprocessor with proprietary embedded software that allows customers to monitor transmitted and received optical power, temperature, drive current and other link parameters of each port on their systems in real time. In addition, our intelligent optical subsystems are used by some enterprise networking and storage system manufacturers to enhance the ability of their systems to diagnose and correct abnormalities in fiber optic networks.For SAN applications which rely on the Fibre Channel standard, we currently provide a wide range of optical subsystems for transmission applications at 1 to 8 Gbps. We currently provide optical subsystems for data networking applications for LANs and MANs based on the Ethernet standard for transmitting signals at 1 to 10 Gbps using the SFP, SFP+, and XFP form factors. We offer products for 10 Gbps Ethernet solutions using the legacy Xenpak and newer X2 form factors which make use of the XAUI electrical interface. For SONET/SDH-based MANs, we supply optical subsystems which are capable of transmitting at 2.5, 10 and 40 Gbps. We also offer products that operate at less than 1 Gbps for these SONET/SDH networks.We also offer a full line of optical subsystems for MANs using wavelength division multiplexing, or WDM technologies. Our coarse wavelength division multiplexing, or CWDM, subsystems include every major optical transport component needed to support a MAN, including transceivers, optical add/drop multiplexers, or OADMs, for adding and dropping wavelengths in a network without the need to convert to an electrical signal and multiplexers/demultiplexers for SONET/SDH, Gigabit Ethernet and Fibre Channel protocols. CWDM-based optical subsystems allow network operators to scale the amount of bandwidth offered on an incremental basis, thus providing additional cost savings during the early stages of deploying new IP-based systems. For dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM systems, we offer DWDM-based transceivers in the SFP, XFP and 300 pin form factors.As a result of several acquisitions, we have gained access to leading-edge technology for the manufacture of a number of active and passive optical components including VCSELs, FP lasers, DFB lasers, PIN detectors, fused fiber couplers, isolators, 5Table of Contentsfilters, polarization beam combiners, interleavers and linear semiconductor optical amplifiers. Most of these optical components are used internally in the manufacture of our optical subsystems. We currently sell VCSELs and limited quantities of other components in the so-called “merchant market” to other subsystems manufacturers.We recently began to offer products used in building fiber-to-the-home/curb networks and for parallel optics applications such as backplanes for switches and routers. We offer a WSS ROADM, a dynamic wavelength processor in a highly configurable platform for wavelength management in a DWDM telecommunications network. These capabilities are made possible in part through the use of unique LCoS technology currently used in making microdisplays and certain projection television sets. This technology provides a highly flexible WSS switch capable of operating on both 50 and 100 GHz International Telecommunications Union grids, the capability for in-service upgrades of functionality and integration of additional system functionality, including drop and continue, channel monitoring and channel contouring.CustomersTo date, our revenues have been principally derived from sales of optical subsystems and components to a broad base of original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, distributors and system integrators. Sales of products for LAN and SAN applications represented 39%, 43% and 44% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Sales to our five largest customers represented 48%, 43% and 42% of our total revenues during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively. Three customers, Cisco Systems, Huawei and Alcatel-Lucent, each represented more than 10% of our total revenues during fiscal 2011. One customer, Cisco Systems, represented more than 10% of total revenues during each of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in any of these years.TechnologyThe development of high quality fiber optic subsystems and components for high-speed data communications requires multidisciplinary expertise in the following technology areas:High Frequency Integrated Circuit Design. Our fiber optic subsystems development efforts are supported by an engineering team that specialized in analog/digital integrated circuit design. This group works in both silicon, or Si, CMOS, and silicon germanium, or SiGe, BiCMOS, semiconductor technologies where circuit element frequencies are very fast and can be as high as 40 Gbps. We have designed proprietary circuits including laser drivers, receiver pre-and post-amplifiers and controller circuits for handling digital diagnostics at 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 49 Gbps. We are also investing in designing LCoS based ICs for our WSS products. These advanced semiconductor devices provide significant cost advantages and will be critical in the development of future products capable of even faster data rates.Optical Subassembly and Mechanical Design. We established ourselves as a low-cost design leader beginning with our initial Gbps optical subsystems in 1992. From that base we have developed single-mode laser alignment approaches and low-cost, all-metal packaging techniques for improved EMI performance and environmental tolerance. We develop our own component and packaging designs and integrate these designs with proprietary manufacturing processes that allow our products to be manufactured in high volume.System Design. The design of all of our products requires a combination of sophisticated technical competencies — optical engineering, high-speed electrical design, digital and analog application specific IC, or ASIC design and firmware and software engineering. We have built an organization of people with skills in all of these areas. It is the integration of these technical competencies that enables us to produce products that meet the needs of our customers. Our combination of these technical competencies has enabled us to design and manufacture optical modules and subsystems.Manufacturing System Design. Hardware, firmware and software design skills are utilized to provide specialized manufacturing test systems for our internal use. These test systems are optimized for test capacity and broad test coverage. We use automated, software-controlled testing to enhance the field reliability of all Finisar products and to reduce the level of capital expenditures that would otherwise be required to purchase these test systems.Optoelectronic Device Design and Wafer Fabrication. The ability to manufacture our own optical components can provide significant cost savings while the ability to create unique component designs, enhances our competitive position in terms of performance, time-to-market and intellectual property. We design and manufacture a number of active components that are used in our optical subsystems. Our acquisition of Honeywell’s VCSEL Optical Products business unit in March 2004 provided us with wafer fabrication capability for designing and manufacturing all of the 850nm VCSEL components used in our short distance transceivers for LAN and SAN applications. These applications represented approximately 39% of our optical subsystem revenues in fiscal 2011. The acquisition of Genoa Corporation in April 2003 provided us with a state-of-the-art foundry for the manufacture of PIN detectors and 1310 nm FP and DFB lasers used in our longer distance transceivers, 6Table of Contentsalthough we continue to rely on third-party suppliers for a portion of our DFB laser requirements. These longer distance transceiver products comprised approximately 45% of our optical subsystem revenues in fiscal 2011.CompetitionSeveral of our competitors in the optical subsystems and components market have recently been acquired or announced plans to be acquired. These announcements reflect an ongoing realignment of industry capacity with market demand in order to restore the financial health of the optics industry. Despite this trend, the market for optical subsystems and components for use in LANs, SANs, MANs and WANs remains highly competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors in these markets are:•product performance, features, functionality and reliability;•price/performance characteristics;•timeliness of new product introductions;•breadth of product line;•adoption of emerging industry standards;•service and support;•size and scope of distribution network;•brand name;•access to customers; and•size of installed customer base.Competition in the market for optical subsystems and components varies by market segment. Our principal competitors for optical transceivers sold for applications based on the Fibre Channel and Ethernet protocols include Avago Technologies (formerly part of Agilent Technologies) and JDS Uniphase. Our principal competitors for optical transceivers sold for MAN, WAN and telecom applications based on the SONET/SDH protocols include Oclaro (formed with the merger of Bookham and Avanex), Opnext and Sumitomo. Our principal competitors for WSS ROADM products include CoAdna, JDS Uniphase, Oclaro and Oplink. Our principal competitors for CATV products include AOI and Emcore. We believe we compete favorably with our competitors with respect to most of the foregoing factors based, in part, upon our broad product line, our sizeable installed base, our significant vertical integration and our lower-cost manufacturing facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia and Shanghai, China. We believe that the recent introduction of a number of products for 10GigE and parallel optics applications and recent design-wins for our WSS ROADM products have strengthened our position in the optical subsystem market.Sales, Marketing and Technical SupportFor sales of our optical subsystems and components, we utilize a direct sales force augmented by one world-wide distributor, ten international distributors, three domestic distributors, 17 domestic manufacturers’ representatives and three international manufacturers’ representatives. Our direct sales force maintains close contact with our customers and provides technical support to our manufacturers’ representatives. In our international markets, our direct sales force works with local resellers who assist us in providing support and maintenance in the territories they cover.Our marketing efforts are focused on increasing awareness of our product offerings for optical subsystems and our brand name. Key components of our marketing efforts include:•continuing our active participation in industry associations and standards committees to promote and further enhance Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel and SONET/SDH/OTN technologies, promote standardization in the LAN, SAN and MAN markets, and increase our visibility as industry experts; and•leveraging major trade show events and LAN, SAN and MAN conferences to promote our broad product lines;In addition, our marketing group provides marketing support services for our executive staff, our direct sales force and our manufacturers’ representatives and resellers. Through our marketing activities, we provide technical and strategic sales support to our direct sales personnel and resellers, including in-depth product presentations, technical manuals, sales tools, pricing, marketing communications, marketing research, trademark administration and other support functions.A high level of continuing service and support is critical to our objective of developing long-term customer relationships. We emphasize customer service and technical support in order to provide our customers and their end users with the knowledge 7Table of Contentsand resources necessary to successfully utilize our product line. Our customer service organization utilizes a technical team of field and factory applications engineers, technical marketing personnel and, when required, product design engineers. We provide extensive customer support throughout the qualification and sale process. In addition, we provide many resources through our World Wide Web site, including product documentation and technical information. We intend to continue to provide our customers with comprehensive product support and believe it is critical to remaining competitive.BacklogA substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales to OEMs and system integrators through hub arrangements where revenue is generated as inventory that resides at these customers or their contract manufacturers is drawn down. Visibility as to future customer demand is limited in these situations. Most of our other revenues are derived from sales pursuant to individual purchase orders which remain subject to negotiation with respect to delivery schedules and are generally cancelable without significant penalties. Manufacturing capacity and availability of key components can also impact the timing and amount of revenue ultimately recognized under such sale arrangements. Accordingly, we do not believe that the backlog of undelivered product under these purchase orders are a meaningful indicator of our future financial performance.ManufacturingWe manufacture most of our optical subsystems at our production facility in Ipoh, Malaysia. This facility consists of 640,000 square feet, of which 240,000 square feet is suitable for cleanroom operations. The acquisition of this facility has allowed us to transfer most of our manufacturing processes from contract manufacturers to a lower-cost manufacturing facility and to maintain greater control over our intellectual property. We expect to continue to use contract manufacturers for a portion of our manufacturing needs. We conduct a portion of our new product introduction operations at our Ipoh, Malaysia facility. We manufacture certain passive optical components used in our long wavelength products for MAN applications as well as ROADM linecards at our 152,000 square foot facility in Shanghai, China. We manufacture our WSS products in our 60,000 square foot facility in Waterloo, Australia and certain CATV and telecommunications products in our 81,000 square foot facility in Horsham, Pennsylvania. We continue to conduct a portion of our new product introduction activities at our Sunnyvale, California and Horsham, Pennsylvania facilities. In Sunnyvale, we also conduct supply chain management for certain components, quality assurance and documentation control operations. We maintain an international purchasing office in Shenzen, China. We conduct wafer fabrication operations for the manufacture of VCSELs used in LAN and SAN applications at our facility in Allen, Texas. We conduct wafer fabrication operations for the manufacture of long wavelength FP and DFB lasers at our facility in Fremont, California.We design and develop a number of the key components of our products, including photodetectors, lasers, ASICs, printed circuit boards and software. In addition, our manufacturing team works closely with our engineers to manage the supply chain. To assure the quality and reliability of our products, we conduct product testing and burn-in at our facilities in conjunction with inspection and the use of testing and statistical process controls. In addition, most of our optical subsystems have an intelligent interface that allows us to monitor product quality during the manufacturing process. Our facilities in Sunnyvale, Fremont, Allen, Shanghai, Ipoh, Horsham and Australia are qualified under ISO 9001-9002.Although we use standard parts and components for our products where possible, we currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. Our principal single source components purchased from external suppliers include ASICs and certain DFB lasers that we do not manufacture internally. In addition, all of the short wavelength VCSEL lasers used in our LAN and SAN products are currently produced at our facility in Allen, Texas. Generally, purchase commitments with our single or limited source suppliers are on a purchase order basis. We generally try to maintain a buffer inventory of key components. However, any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components, or the inability to procure these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, would substantially harm our business. In addition, qualifying additional suppliers can be time-consuming and expensive and may increase the likelihood of errors.We use a rolling 12-month forecast of anticipated product orders to determine our material requirements. Lead times for materials and components we order vary significantly, and depend on factors such as the demand for such components in relation to each supplier’s manufacturing capacity, internal manufacturing capacity, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time.Research and DevelopmentIn fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, our research and development expenses related to our continuing operations were $117.3 million, $94.8 million and $80.1 million, respectively. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop new products that maintain technological competitiveness. We focus our product development activities on addressing the evolving needs of our customers within the LAN, SAN, MAN and WAN markets, although we also are seeking to leverage our core competencies by developing products for other applications. We work closely 8Table of Contentswith our OEMs and system integrators to monitor changes in the marketplace. We design our products around current industry standards and will continue to support emerging standards that are consistent with our product strategy. Our research and development groups are aligned with our various product lines, and we also have specific groups devoted to ASIC design and test, subsystem design, and software design. Our product development operations include the active involvement of our manufacturing engineers who examine each product for its manufacturability, predicted reliability, expected lifetime and manufacturing costs.We believe that our research and development efforts are key to our ability to maintain technical competitiveness and to deliver innovative products that address the needs of the market. However, there can be no assurance that our product development efforts will result in commercially successful products, or that our products will not be rendered obsolete by changing technology or new product announcements by other companies.Intellectual PropertyOur success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We currently own approximately 1,000 issued U.S. patents and approximately 300 patent applications with additional foreign counterparts. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult. We have been involved in extensive litigation to enforce certain of our patents and are currently engaged in such litigation. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. Additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could significantly harm our business.The networking industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our business. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed.EmployeesAs of April 30, 2011, we employed approximately 8,065 full-time employees and contractors, 712 of whom were located in the United States and 6,778 of whom were located at our production facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia and Shanghai, China. We also from time to time employ part-time employees. Our employees are not represented by any union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. Certain of our employees in our Waterloo, Australia facility are subject to a collective agreement not involving a union. We believe that there is a positive employee relations environment within the company.Available InformationOur website is located at www.finisar.com. Electronic copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available, free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.9Table of ContentsItem 1A.Risk FactorsOUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF RISKS, INCLUDING THOSE DESCRIBED BELOW. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES.Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which may result in volatility or a decline in the price of our stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly due to a number of factors, including: •fluctuation in demand for our products;•the timing of new product introductions or enhancements by us and our competitors;•the level of market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products;•the timing or cancellation of large customer orders;•the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products;•pricing policy changes by us and our competitors and suppliers;•the availability of development funding and the timing of development revenue; •changes in the mix of products sold;•increased competition in product lines, and competitive pricing pressures; and•the evolving and unpredictable nature of the markets for products incorporating our optical components and subsystems. We expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these factors and a variety of other factors, including: •fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•the emergence of new industry standards;•failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements;•the loss or gain of important customers;•product obsolescence; and•the amount of research and development expenses associated with new product introductions. Our operating results could also be harmed by: •the continuation or worsening of the current global economic slowdown or economic conditions in various geographic areas where we or our customers do business;•acts of terrorism and international conflicts or domestic crises;•other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders; or•a downturn in the markets for our customers' products, particularly the data storage and networking and telecommunications components markets. We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons. Orders at the beginning of each quarter are typically lower than expected revenues for that quarter and are generally cancelable with minimal notice. Accordingly, we depend on obtaining orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure to ship these products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our customer agreements typically provide that the customer may delay scheduled delivery dates and cancel orders within specified timeframes without significant penalty. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will again decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, it is likely that the trading price of our common stock would significantly decline. As a result of these factors, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of 10Table of Contentsfuture performance. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from levels expected by the investment community could cause a decline in the trading price of our stock. We may lose sales if our suppliers or independent contract manufacturers fail to meet our needs or go out of business. We currently purchase a number of key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources, and we rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain key components and subassemblies, including lasers, modulators, and printed circuit boards. We depend on these sources to meet our production needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the components and subassemblies that they supply to us, over which we have limited control. Several of our suppliers are or may become financially unstable as the result of current global market conditions. In addition, from time to time we have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components. We are currently encountering such shortages and expect to encounter additional shortages and delays in the future. Recently, many of our suppliers have extended lead times for many of their products as the result of significantly reducing capacity in light of the global slowdown in demand. This reduction in capacity has reduced the ability of many suppliers to respond to increases in demand. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We generally have no long-term contracts with any of our component suppliers or contract manufacturers. As a result, a supplier or contract manufacturer can discontinue supplying components or subassemblies to us without penalty. If a supplier were to discontinue supplying a key component or cease operations, the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays could be lengthy, and our business could be substantially harmed. We are also subject to potential delays in the development by our suppliers of key components which may affect our ability to introduce new products. Similarly, disruptions in the services provided by our contract manufacturers or the transition to other suppliers of these services could lead to supply chain problems or delays in the delivery of our products. These problems or delays could damage our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component and subassembly requirements. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for particular components. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business. If we are unable to realize anticipated cost savings from the transfer of certain manufacturing operations to our overseas locations and increased use of internally-manufactured components our results of operations could be harmed. As part of our initiatives to reduce the cost of revenues planned for the next several quarters, we expect to realize significant cost savings through (i) the transfer of certain product manufacturing operations to lower cost off-shore locations and (ii) product engineering changes to enable the broader use of internally-manufactured components. The transfer of production to overseas locations may be more difficult and costly than we currently anticipate which could result in increased transfer costs and time delays. Further, following transfer, we may experience lower manufacturing yields than those historically achieved in our U.S. manufacturing locations. In addition, the engineering changes required for the use of internally-manufactured components may be more technically-challenging than we anticipate and customer acceptance of such changes could be delayed. If we fail to achieve the planned product manufacturing transfer and increase in internally-manufactured component use within our currently anticipated timeframe, or if our manufacturing yields decrease as a result, we may be unsuccessful in achieving cost savings or such savings will be less than anticipated, and our results of operations could be harmed. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the future, and failure to do so may harm our business. We believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with the cash expected to be generated from future operations and borrowings under our bank credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future, to finance future acquisitions that we may propose to undertake or to repay or otherwise retire our outstanding convertible debt in the aggregate principal amount of $40 million, which is subject to redemption by the holders in October 2014, 2016, 2019 and 2024. Due to the unpredictable nature of the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience disappointing operating results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing 11Table of Contentsstockholders. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues could result in additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancellable purchase commitments. We base many of our operating decisions, and enter into purchase commitments, on the basis of anticipated revenue trends which are highly unpredictable. Some of our purchase commitments are not cancelable, and in some cases we are required to recognize a charge representing the amount of material or capital equipment purchased or ordered which exceeds our actual requirements. In the past, we have periodically experienced significant growth followed by a significant decrease in customer demand such as occurred in fiscal 2001, when revenues increased by 181% followed by a decrease of 22% in fiscal 2002. Based on projected revenue trends during these periods, we acquired inventories and entered into purchase commitments in order to meet anticipated increases in demand for our products which did not materialize. As a result, we recorded significant charges for obsolete and excess inventories and non-cancelable purchase commitments which contributed to substantial operating losses in fiscal 2002. Should revenues in future periods again fall substantially below our expectations, or should we fail again to accurately forecast changes in demand mix, we could be required to record additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments. If we encounter sustained yield problems or other delays in the production or delivery of our internally-manufactured components or in the final assembly and test of our products, we may lose sales and damage our customer relationships. Our manufacturing operations are highly vertically integrated. In order to reduce our manufacturing costs, we have acquired a number of companies, and business units of other companies, that manufacture optical components incorporated in our optical subsystem products and have developed our own facilities for the final assembly and testing of our products. For example, we design and manufacture many critical components including all of the short wavelength VCSEL lasers incorporated in transceivers used for LAN/SAN applications at our wafer fabrication facility in Allen, Texas and manufacture a portion of our internal requirements for longer wavelength lasers at our wafer fabrication facility in Fremont, California. We assemble and test most of our transceiver products at our facility in Ipoh, Malaysia. As a result of this vertical integration, we have become increasingly dependent on our internal production capabilities. The manufacture of critical components, including the fabrication of wafers, and the assembly and testing of our products, involve highly complex processes. For example, minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process or other factors can cause a substantial portion of the components on a wafer to be nonfunctional. These problems may be difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and often are time-consuming and expensive to correct. From time to time, we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields at our wafer fabrication facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of components. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. In addition, changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically significantly reduced our manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Poor manufacturing yields over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our ability to deliver our subsystem products to our customers and could also affect our sale of components to customers in the merchant market. Our inability to supply components to meet our internal needs could harm our relationships with customers and have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on widespread market acceptance of our optical subsystems and components, and our revenues will decline if the markets for these products do not expand as expected. We derive all of our revenue from sales of our optical subsystems and components. Accordingly, widespread acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. If the market does not continue to accept our optical subsystems and components, our revenues will decline significantly. Our future success also ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure. As part of that growth, we are relying on increasing demand for voice, video and other data delivered over high-bandwidth network systems as well as commitments by network systems vendors to invest in the expansion of the global information network. As network usage and bandwidth demand increase, so does the need for advanced optical networks to provide the required bandwidth. Without network and bandwidth growth, the need for optical subsystems and components, and hence our future growth as a manufacturer of these products, will be jeopardized, and our business would be significantly harmed. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, in order to achieve widespread market acceptance, we must differentiate ourselves from our competition through product offerings and brand name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making this differentiation or achieving widespread acceptance of our products. Failure of our existing or future products to maintain and achieve widespread levels of market acceptance will significantly impair our revenue 12Table of Contentsgrowth. We depend on large purchases from a few significant customers, and any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business. A small number of customers have consistently accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. For example, sales to our top five customers represented 48% of our revenues in fiscal 2011, 43% of our revenues in fiscal 2010 and 42% of our revenues in fiscal 2009. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with our major customers. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers, and our quarterly results may be volatile because we are dependent on large orders from these customers that may be reduced or delayed. The markets in which we have historically sold our optical subsystems and components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. Recent consolidation of portions of our customer base, including telecommunications systems manufacturers, and potential future consolidation, may have a material adverse impact on our business. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critically important to our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers or that our customers will be successful in selling their products that incorporate our products. We have in the past experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers. In addition, our customers have in the past sought price concessions from us, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Expense reduction measures that we have implemented over the past several years, and additional action we are taking to reduce costs, may adversely affect our ability to introduce new and improved products which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationships with some of our key customers. Further, some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products from us to our competitors or to joint ventures between these customers and our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions that we may make could significantly harm our business. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time if we fail to meet our customers' needs. Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly: •our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty;•our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and•our customers are not required to make minimum purchases. Sales are typically made pursuant to inventory hub arrangements under which customers may draw down inventory to satisfy their demand as needed or pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. If we are unable to fulfill these orders in a timely manner, it is likely that we will lose sales and customers. If our major customers stop purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards with respect to the protocols used in data communications, telecommunications and CATV networks. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. For example, the market for optical subsystems is currently characterized by a trend toward the adoption of “pluggable” modules and subsystems that do not require customized interconnections and by the development of more complex and integrated optical subsystems. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to a slowdown in 13Table of Contentsdemand or in the expectation of a new product release or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: •changing product specifications and customer requirements;•unanticipated engineering complexities;•expense reduction measures we have implemented, and others we may implement, to conserve our cash and attempt to achieve and sustain profitability;•difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel;•difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and•changing market or competitive product requirements. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. The introduction of new products also requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, for which benefit will not be realized if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of the new product introduction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business. Continued competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years while the industry that supplies these customers has experienced less consolidation. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems and components are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Increased consolidation in our industry, should it occur, will reduce the number of our competitors but would be likely to further strengthen surviving industry participants. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances and may be able to react quicker to changing customer requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that network systems vendors may re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture the optical subsystems incorporated in their network systems. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. Our principal competitors for optical transceivers sold for applications based on the Fibre Channel and Ethernet protocols include Avago Technologies and JDS Uniphase. Our principal competitors for optical transceivers sold for MAN, WAN and telecom applications based on the SONET/SDH protocols include Oclaro, Opnext and Sumitomo. Our principal competitors for WSS ROADM products include CoAdna, JDS Uniphase, Oclaro and Oplink. Our principal competitors for cable TV products include AOI and Emcore. Our competitors continue to introduce improved products and we will have to do the same to remain competitive. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce our gross margins. The market for optical subsystems is characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased competition, overcapacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. We have in the past experienced, and in the future may experience, substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to declining average selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices will decrease in the future in response to product introductions by competitors or us, or by other factors, including pricing pressures from significant customers. Therefore, in order to sustain profitable operations, we must continue to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our revenues and gross margins to decline, which would result in additional operating losses and significantly harm our business. We may be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to enable us to compete with others. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and could adversely affect our margins. In order to remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We 14Table of Contentscannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or improve our gross margins. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in gross margins. Our optical products sold for longer distance MAN and telecom applications typically have higher gross margins than our products for shorter distance LAN or SAN applications. Gross margins on individual products fluctuate over the product's life cycle. Our overall gross margins have fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product costs, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. Our customers often evaluate our products for long and variable periods, which causes the timing of our revenues and results of operations to be unpredictable. The period of time between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of an actual purchase order may span a year or more. During this time, customers may perform, or require us to perform, extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of our products before purchasing and using the products in their equipment. These products often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. Our customers do not typically share information on the duration or magnitude of these qualification procedures. The length of these qualification processes also may vary substantially by product and customer, and, thus, cause our results of operations to be unpredictable. While our potential customers are qualifying our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial research and development and sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. Even after incurring such costs we ultimately may not sell any products to such potential customers. In addition, these qualification processes often make it difficult to obtain new customers, as customers are reluctant to expend the resources necessary to qualify a new supplier if they have one or more existing qualified sources. Once our products have been qualified, the agreements that we enter into with our customers typically contain no minimum purchase commitments. Failure of our customers to incorporate our products into their systems would significantly harm our business. We will lose sales if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products, and we would be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. Government and administered by the United States Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, administered by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, administered by the Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our fiber optics products are subject to EAR and certain of our RF over fiber products, as well as certain products developed with government funding, are currently subject to ITAR. Products developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. Government regulations also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. We have previously been the subject of inquiries from the Department of State and the Department of Justice regarding compliance with ITAR. Although these inquiries were closed with no action being taken, we expended significant time and resources to resolve them, and future inquiries of this type could also be costly to resolve. We depend on facilities located outside of the United States to manufacture a substantial portion of our products, which subjects us to additional risks. In addition to our principal manufacturing facility in Malaysia, we operate smaller facilities in Australia, China, Israel and Singapore. We also rely on several contract manufacturers located in Asia for our supply of key subassemblies. Each of these facilities and manufacturers subjects us to additional risks associated with international manufacturing, including: 15Table of Contents•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•legal uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers;•inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries;•greater incidence of shipping delays;•greater difficulty in overseeing manufacturing operations;•greater difficulty in hiring and retaining direct labor;•greater difficulty in hiring talent needed to oversee manufacturing operations;•potential political and economic instability; and•the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the H1N1 influenza virus and/or severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which could result in travel restrictions or the closure of our facilities or the facilities of our customers and suppliers. Any of these factors could significantly impair our ability to source our contract manufacturing requirements internationally. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect both our revenues and our costs and expenses and significantly affect our operating results. Prices for our products are currently denominated in U.S. dollars for sales to our customers throughout the world. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country relative to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country's currency, our products may be less competitive in that country and our revenues may be adversely affected. Although we price our products in U.S. dollars, portions of both our cost of revenues and operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, principally the Malaysian ringgit, the Chinese yuan, the Australian dollar and the Israeli shekel. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in one or more countries will exceed the rate of the devaluation of that country's currency in relation to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and ongoing military actions in the Middle East. Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the United States and ongoing military actions in the Middle East, including the economic consequences of the war in Afghanistan and Iraq or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties we are subject to: •increased risks related to the operations of our manufacturing facilities in Malaysia;•greater risks of disruption in the operations of our China, Singapore and Israeli facilities and our Asian contract manufacturers, including contract manufacturers located in Thailand, and more frequent instances of shipping delays; and•the risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities.Future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. In addition to our combination with Optium in August 2008 and our acquisition of more than 80% of the outstanding shares of Ignis AS in May 2011, we have completed the acquisition of ten privately-held companies and certain businesses and assets from six other companies since October 2000. We continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities, and we from time to time make proposals and offers, and take other steps, to acquire businesses, products and technologies. The Optium merger and several of our other past acquisitions have been material, and acquisitions that we may complete in the future may be material. In 13 of our 18 acquisitions, we issued common stock or notes convertible into common stock as all or a portion of the consideration. The issuance of common stock or other equity securities by us in connection with any future acquisition would dilute our stockholders' percentage ownership. 16Table of Contents Other risks associated with acquiring the operations of other companies include: •problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products;•unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition;•diversion of management's attention from our core business;•adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;•risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and•potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. Not all of our past acquisitions have been successful. In the past, we have subsequently sold some of the assets acquired in prior acquisitions, discontinued product lines and closed acquired facilities. As a result of these activities, we incurred significant restructuring charges and charges for the write-down of assets associated with those acquisitions. Through fiscal 2011, we have written off all of the goodwill associated with our past acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with the recent Ignis acquisition or potential future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could significantly harm our business. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of our future acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record additional write downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments which may not be successful, may result in the loss of all or part of our invested capital and may adversely affect our operating results. Since inception we have made minority equity investments in a number of early-stage technology companies, totaling approximately $61.9 million. Our investments in these early stage companies were primarily motivated by our desire to gain early access to new technology. We intend to review additional opportunities to make strategic equity investments in pre-public companies where we believe such investments will provide us with opportunities to gain access to important technologies or otherwise enhance important commercial relationships. We have little or no influence over the early-stage companies in which we have made or may make these strategic, minority equity investments. Each of these investments in pre-public companies involves a high degree of risk. We may not be successful in achieving the financial, technological or commercial advantage upon which any given investment is premised, and failure by the early-stage company to achieve its own business objectives or to raise capital needed on acceptable economic terms could result in a loss of all or part of our invested capital. Between fiscal 2003 and 2010, we wrote off an aggregate of $26.8 million in six investments which became impaired and reclassified $4.2 million of another investment to goodwill as the investment was deemed to have no value. We may be required to write off all or a portion of the $12.3 million in such investments remaining on our balance sheet as of April 30, 2011 in future periods. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. As of April 30, 2011, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforward amounts of approximately $457.4 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $160.5 million for state income tax purposes, and tax credit carryforward amounts of approximately $18.5 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $11.1 million for state income tax purposes. The federal and state tax credit carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2013 through 2030, and $1.2 million of such carryforwards will expire in the next five years. The federal and state NOL carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2015 through 2029, and $37.4 million of such carryforwards will expire in the next five years. Utilization of these NOL and tax credit carryforward amounts may be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership change limitations under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the NOL and tax credit carryforward amounts before utilization.Because of competition for technical personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. In particular, we will need to increase the number of technical staff members with experience in high-speed networking applications as we further develop our product lines. Competition for these highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. In making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. Our failure to attract and retain these qualified employees could significantly harm our business. The loss of the services of any of our qualified employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays 17Table of Contentsin hiring required personnel could hinder the development and introduction of and negatively impact our ability to sell our products. In addition, employees may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We have been subject to claims of this type and may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We license certain of our proprietary technology, including our digital diagnostics technology, to customers who include current and potential competitors, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property rights in this technology. Although a number of patents have been issued to us, we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, and we have filed applications for additional patents, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Additionally, significant technology used in our product lines is not the subject of any patent protection, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection on such technology in the future. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. We are currently engaged in pending litigation to enforce certain of our patents, and additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. In connection with the pending litigation, substantial management time has been, and will continue to be, expended. In addition, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, substantial legal expenses in connection with these pending lawsuits. These costs and this diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. Claims that we or any user of our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. The networking industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We have been involved in the past as a defendant in patent infringement lawsuits, and we were recently found liable in a patent infringement lawsuit filed against Optium by JDSU and Emcore Corporation. This suit involved two of our CATV products, each of which has been redesigned. In addition, in connection with a patent infringement lawsuit that we initiated in January 2010 against Source Photonics, MRV Communications, NeoPhotonics and Oplink Communications, each of Source Photonics and NeoPhotonics raised counterclaims alleging patent infringement by us. The Source Photonics counterclaims were raised against certain of our transceiver products and the NeoPhotonics counterclaims were raised against certain of our WSS products. In connection with our settlement with Source Photonics, we received a royalty free license to the Source Photonics patents through December 31, 2015. While, as a result of various procedural events in that lawsuit and a tolling agreement between the parties, the NeoPhotonics patent counterclaims are not currently being asserted against us, such claims may be re-asserted against us in the future. Further, on March 7, 2011, Optical Communication Products, Inc. ("OCP"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Oplink Communications, filed a complaint for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that certain VCSEL lasers and active optical cables manufactured and sold by us infringe five OCP patents. From time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringes proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our business. Further, claims against a user of our products in combination with other products that such use infringes proprietary rights of third parties could cause users to choose to not or be required to not utilize our products in such combination, which could harm our sales of such products. Any claims, against us or any use of our products, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or 18Table of Contentslicense a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. Numerous patents in our industry are held by others, including academic institutions and competitors. Optical subsystem suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products. Licenses granting us the right to use third party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers. Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers' products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. We are subject to pending securities class action and shareholder derivative legal proceedings. Several securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following our March 8, 2011 announcement of unaudited financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and our financial outlook for the fourth quarter. We also have been named as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative lawsuits filed in 2011 concerning our March 8, 2011 earnings announcement and filed in 2007 concerning the granting of stock options. March 8, 2011 Earnings Announcement CasesThe securities class action lawsuits related to our March 8, 2011 earnings announcement allege claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on behalf of a purported class of persons who purchased stock between December 1 or 2, 2010 through March 8, 2011. The named defendants are Finisar and our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. To date, no specific amount of damages has been alleged. The cases have been related, and motions to consolidate and appoint lead plaintiffs have been filed and will be heard in September 2011.The shareholder derivative lawsuits related to our March 8, 2011 earnings announcement have been filed in California state court. The complaints assert claims for alleged breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and waste on behalf of Finisar. Named as defendants are the members of our board of directors, including our Chairman of the Board and our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. No specific amount of damages has been alleged and, by the derivative nature of the lawsuits, no damages will be alleged, against Finisar. The cases have been consolidated and a lead plaintiff has been appointed to file a consolidated complaint. Stock Option CasesThe stock option derivative cases have been consolidated into two proceedings pending in federal and state courts in California. The plaintiffs in all of these cases have alleged that certain current or former officers and directors of Finisar caused it to grant stock options at less than fair market value, contrary to our public statements (including statements in our financial statements), and that, as a result, those officers and directors are liable to Finisar. No specific amount of damages has been alleged and, by the derivative nature of the lawsuits, no damages will be alleged, against Finisar. The state court action has been stayed pending resolution of the consolidated federal court action. On August 28, 2007, we and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint which were granted on January 11, 2008. On May 12, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a further amended complaint in the federal court action. On July 1, 2008, we and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. On September 22, 2009, the District Court granted the motions to dismiss. The plaintiffs appealed this order and on April 26, 2011, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the District Court ruling and remanded the case for further proceedings. We and the individual defendants have filed a motion seeking rehearing 19Table of Contentsof the case en banc before the full Ninth Circuit.We will continue to incur legal fees in all of the above class action and shareholder derivative cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, however there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. If any of the lawsuits related to our earnings announcement are adversely decided, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside our control. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks in the United States and overseas. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our manufacturing operations are located in California. California in particular has been vulnerable to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, and other risks which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We are also dependent on communications links with our overseas manufacturing locations and would be significantly harmed if these links were interrupted for any significant length of time. We presently do not have adequate redundant, multiple site capacity if any of these events were to occur, nor can we be certain that the insurance we maintain against these events would be adequate. The conversion of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes would result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. As of April 30, 2011, we had outstanding 5.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2029 in the principal amount of $40.0 million. These notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $10.68 per share. An aggregate of approximately 3,748,478 shares of common stock would be issued upon the conversion of all outstanding convertible notes at these exchange rates, which would dilute the voting power and ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. We have previously entered into privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of our convertible notes for the repurchase of notes in exchange for a greater number of shares of our common stock than would have been issued had the principal amount of the notes been converted at the original conversion rate specified in the notes, thus resulting in more dilution. We may enter into similar transactions in the future and, if we do so, there will be additional dilution to the voting power and percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Delaware law, our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: •authorizing the board of directors to issue additional preferred stock;•prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;•limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;•prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;•creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three-year terms;•permitting the board of directors to increase the size of the board and to fill vacancies;•requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which limit the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons. In addition, in September 2002, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan under which our stockholders received one share purchase right for each share of our common stock held by them. Subject to certain exceptions, the rights become exercisable when a person or group (other than certain exempt persons) acquires, or announces its intention to 20Table of Contentscommence a tender or exchange offer upon completion of which such person or group would acquire, 20% or more of our common stock without prior board approval. Should such an event occur, then, unless the rights are redeemed or have expired, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, will be entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at a 50% discount from its then-Current Market Price (as defined) or, in the case of certain business combinations, purchase the common stock of the acquirer at a 50% discount. Although we believe that these charter and bylaw provisions, provisions of Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan provide an opportunity for the board to assure that our stockholders realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on Finisar common stock and, consequently, a stockholder's ability to achieve a return on such stockholder's investment will depend on appreciation in the price of the common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on Finisar common stock and we do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, a stockholder is not likely to receive any dividends on such stockholder's common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit facility with Wells Fargo LLC contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: •trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate;•changes in the market price of the products we sell;•changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;•acquisitions and financings;•quarterly variations in our operating results;•the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors in our common stock may deem comparable; and•purchases or sales of blocks of our common stock. Part of this volatility is attributable to the current state of the stock market, in which wide price swings are common. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. If any of the foregoing occurs, our stock price could fall and we may be exposed to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.21Table of Contents