Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If the risks we face, including those listed below, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively impacted, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, which may cause you to lose all or part of your investment. 39 Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively affected the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by some financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Some financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and/or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market area. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The warrant offered by this prospectus, together with our Series A Preferred Stock, was issued by us to Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. 40 The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. 41 We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; · evaluation of non-performing loans; · historical default and loss experience; · historical recovery experience; · existing economic conditions; · risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and · the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our substantial number of multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer and commercial business loans. Approximately 52.8% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008, consists of multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer and commercial business loans. Multi-family and commercial real estate loans accounted for approximately 22.4% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Our commercial business and consumer loans accounted, respectively, for approximately 6.7% and 23.7% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. For further information concerning the risks associated with multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer loans and commercial business loans, see “Lending Activities” and “Asset Quality” in Item 1. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest we receive on loans and investments that we make than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. For a further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and “Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk” in Item 7A. 42 If economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates that cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. In addition, we have a significant amount of real estate loans. Accordingly, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of collateral securing our loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. In this regard, a substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in north and central eastern Indiana. These factors could expose us to an increased risk of loan defaults and losses and have an adverse impact on our earnings. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. 43 Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.6 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $2.9 million annually). See “Description of Capital Stock—Series A Preferred Stock-Redemption and Repurchases.” Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. MutualFirst Financial also is subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. This regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. 44 We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. MutualFirst receives substantially all of its revenue as dividends from the Bank. OTS regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to MutualFirst Financial. See “Regulatory Considerations.” In the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to MutualFirst Financial, MutualFirst Financial may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank is required to receive regulatory approval prior to declaring dividends to the Company. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; · dispositions, acquisitions and financings; · fluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of our competitors; · regulatory developments; and · other developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Our common stock also has a low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks, which may limit an investor’s ability to quickly accumulate or divest themselves of large blocks of our stock. This can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. 45 Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter.” Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. For further information, see “Description of Capital Stock—Preferred Stock.” In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 23, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. 46 The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of MutualFirst Financial. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 8.2% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction The amount of common stock we control, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and state and federal statutory provisions could discourage hostile acquisitions of control. Our board of directors and executive officers beneficially own 12.38% of our common stock, and have additional stock options for 413,390 shares which are exercisable within 60 days of March 2, 2009. In addition, our employee stock ownership plan(s) and charitable foundation controlled, respectively, 6.4% and 3.2% of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, 357,902 shares were reserved under various stock benefit plans for future awards for directors, officers and employees of the Company and the Bank. This inside ownership together with provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging attempts to acquire MutualFirst, pursue a proxy contest for control of MutualFirst, assume control of MutualFirst by a holder of a large block of common stock and remove MutualFirst’s management, all of which certain stockholders might think are in their best interests. These provisions include, among other things: (a) staggered terms of the members of the board of directors; (b) an 80% shareholder vote requirement for approval of any merger or consolidation of MutualFirst into any entity that directly or indirectly owns 5% or more of MutualFirst voting stock if the transaction is not approved in advance by at least a majority of the disinterested members of MutualFirst’s board of directors; (c) supermajority shareholder vote requirements for the approval of certain amendments to MutualFirst’s articles of incorporation and bylaws; (d) a prohibition on any holder of common stock voting more than 10% of the outstanding common stock; (e) elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; (f) restrictions on the acquisition of our equity securities; and (g) the authorization of 5 million shares of preferred stock that may be issued with stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the Maryland business corporation law, which contains certain restrictions on an acquisition of control of MutualFirst. Furthermore, federal law requires regulatory approval of any acquisition of control of MutualFirst and imposes limits on the types of companies that can control us. 47 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 