Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking Statements The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we may from time to time make, including forward-looking statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Form 10-K and in Teledyne’s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, and new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Our dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to many risks, including the risk that we may not be successful in bidding for future contracts and the risk that U.S. Government funding for our existing contracts may be diverted to other uses or delayed. We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 42% of our total 13 Table of Contents revenue for 2005, as compared to 43% and 46% of our total revenue for 2004 and 2003, respectively. Performance under government contracts has certain inherent risks that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal years. While U.S. defense spending increased as a result of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq, it is currently expected to moderate over the next few years. Hurricane relief efforts, the continued war on terrorism and the Middle East situation could result in a diversion of funds from programs in which Teledyne participates. Also, continued defense spending does not necessarily correlate to continued business for the Company, because not all the programs in which Teledyne participates or has current capabilities may be provided with continued funding. Our Electronics and Communications segment provides a variety of products for newer military platforms such as the F/ A-22 aircraft and F-35 aircraft. Development and production of these aircrafts are very expensive, and there is no guarantee that the Department of Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will continue to provide funding to manufacture and support these platforms. Also, over time and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne Brown Engineering’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense program was restructured in 2003 to change the emphasis from a focus on test and evaluation to a focus on deployment and sustainment. This resulted in a nearly 16% decline in revenues from this contract that year compared to 2002 (from $58 million to $49 million). Then, in 2004 and 2005, revenues related to this program totaled approximately $54 million and $51 million, respectively, with the increases over 2003 resulting from unanticipated ground tests. The Company expects revenues from this program to decline further in 2006. In addition, the U.S. Missile Defense Agency or MDA has been undergoing changes that could affect our Systems Engineering Solution segment. The MDA is in the process of relocating personnel from the Washington, DC area to Huntsville, Alabama. It is difficult to predict the effects of such move and the efficiencies and costs-savings that the U.S. Government will try to extract from such relocation, including possible consolidation with functions of the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command and other government units. Further, a new director has begun additional restructuring of the Ground-based Midcourse Defense program and redefining roles of program participants, and it is too early to tell the impact of such changes. The Company, principally and traditionally through its Systems Engineering Solutions segment, has been a significant participant in NASA programs. The centerpiece of our current NASA activities is the International Space Station. While the Company anticipates participating in NASA’s lunar and interplanetary exploration activities, funding for these activities may be reduced to the extent additional funding is sought to return the Space Shuttle to flight. Furthermore, we obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may not be successful in having our bids accepted. Until November 29, 2004, under one of our spin-off agreements, we were not able to charge pension costs to the U.S. Government under our various government contracts. Since such date, we have been able to charge these pension costs. The addition of such costs in a bid for U.S. Government contracts, which is in essence an increase to the contract price to be paid, may itself negatively affect an award decision being made to the Company. Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Termination-for-convenience provisions provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to 14 Table of Contents termination. Termination-for-default clauses impose liability on the contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items from another source. During 2005, other than a small contract of Teledyne Reynolds relating to the U.S. Navy’s Fleet Ballistic, Trident II (D-5) program, no U.S. Government contract was terminated for convenience. We did not have any of our U.S. Government contracts terminated for default during 2005. There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (47% in 2005, as compared to 43% in 2004 and 44% in 2003). Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is particularly true where the contract was awarded and the price finalized in advance of final completion of design. Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts are linked to meeting development or testing deadlines. Fees may also be influenced or dependent on the collective efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we have no or limited control. We, like other government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. We have a compliance program designed to surface issues that may lead to voluntary disclosures of contracting irregularities to the U.S. Government. Generally, claims arising out of these U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should the business unit or division involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that the unit or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that unit or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts in defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. In October 2002, the Company was informed that the U.S. Government had declined to intervene in a lawsuit filed under seal pursuant to the False Claims Act more than four years before. Our Electronic Safety Products unit’s involvement in this civil action is over as a result of favorable court decisions. A declining stock market and lower interests rates negatively affect the value of our pension assets and could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We have a defined benefit pension plan covering most of our employees. At year-end 2005, notwithstanding improved market conditions, the value of the pension assets was less than our accumulated pension benefit obligation. The accounting rules applicable to our pension plan require that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions are made to the plan. Two significant elements in determining our pension income or pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting pension benefit obligations. We have assumed, based on the type of securities in which the plan assets are invested and the long-term historical returns of these investments, that the long-term expected return on pension assets will continue to be 8.5% in 2006, as it was in both 2005 and 2004, and the assumed discount rate will be 6.00% in 2006, compared to 6.25% in 2005 and 6.50% in 2004. The actual rate of return on pension assets was 5.1% in 2005 and 9.8% in 2004. Since the spin-off through 2002, as a result of favorable market conditions, we recorded pension income. In 2003, we began to incur pension expense and we expect to continue to incur pension expense. The decline in pension income and the start of pension expense in 2003 is due to the completion, in 2001, of income amortization associated with the transition assets recorded pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 — “Employee’s Accounting for Pensions”, as well as the decline in the value of our pension assets, coupled with reductions in our expected rate of return and discount rate assumptions used for pension plan calculations as described above. Projected earnings for 2006 are expected to include approximately $16.4 million in pension expense under SFAS No. 87, or $6.6 million in net pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs from our CAS covered government contracts. Earnings 15 Table of Contents for 2005 included $12.7 million in pension expense under SFAS No. 87, or $3.4 million in net pension expense after recovery of allowable pension costs from our CAS-covered government contracts. The projected increase in 2006 pension expense reflects, in part, the reduction of the discount rate assumption for our defined benefit Pension Plan from 6.25% in 2005 to 6.00% in 2006. Since November 29, 2004, under one of our spin-off agreements, we are able to charge pension costs to the U.S. Government under certain government contracts. Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services sold to the U.S. Government. Effective January 1, 2004, in an effort to reduce pension expense in future years, new non-union employee hires do not participate in the defined benefit pension plan, but participate in an enhanced Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 401(k) Plan. Given our pension plan’s underfunded status, in 2004, we began making required cash contributions to our pension plan. For 2005 and 2004, cash contributions for this defined benefit plan totaled $14.8 million and $3.1 million, respectively, and we currently expect such contributions to be approximately $18.8 million for 2006. Declines in the stock market and lower rates of return could further increase future years required contributions to our pension plan. United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Middle East situation and nuclear proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Middle East situation and nuclear proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated directly or indirectly with terrorism, the Iraq situation and perceived nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect the Company. The reaction to Iran’s stated desire to explore nuclear capabilities could adversely affect oil prices and some of the Company’s businesses. While some of our businesses that provide products or services to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand as a result of increased U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could realign government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of our government programs. Government spending could shift to the Department of Defense or Homeland Security programs in which we may not participate or may not have current capabilities, and this shift could curtail less pressing non-defense programs in which we do participate, including Department of Energy or NASA programs. The effect of the decline in air travel on the financial condition of many of our commercial airline and aircraft manufacturer customers, resulting from terrorism, a SARS or bird flu scare and other factors, could adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment. Continued deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result in reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would adversely affect our Electronics and Communications segment. The government continues to evaluate potential security issues associated with general aviation. Increased government regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace regulations, could lead to an overall decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our Aerospace Engines and Components segment. As happened after the September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for general aviation aircraft piston engines and components and our Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Potential reductions in the need for general aviation aircraft maintenance due to declines in air travel could also adversely affect our Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Higher oil prices could reduce general aviation air travel, negatively affecting our Aerospace Engines and Components segment. Higher oil prices could also adversely affect commercial airline-related customers of our Electronics and Communications segment. Conversely, higher oil prices could increase oil exploration activities and bolster the businesses of Teledyne Geophysical Instruments and Teledyne Benthos, Inc. 16 Table of Contents Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as: • our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition; • our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business. While the Company conducts financial and other due diligence in connection with its acquisitions and generally seeks some form of protection, including indemnification from a seller and sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly matters identified after a closing. We also have acquired several private companies, such as Reynolds Industries, Incorporated, Cougar Components Corporation and RD Instruments, Inc. Private companies generally may not have internal controls and compliance systems in place that are as formal or comprehensive as those of public companies. While the Company has required various sellers to take certain compliance actions prior to the closing of an acquisition, including actions relating export controls, and has sought protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully protected from historic liabilities. With regard to our 2005 acquisitions and our most recent acquisition of Benthos, Inc., while these companies’ products and customer base are complementary to some of Teledyne’s existing businesses, there is no assurance that we will achieve all identified financial, operating and marketing synergies. In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain synergies and cost-savings. For example, we recently relocated the operations of the microwave technical solutions assets acquired from Avnet Inc. to a Teledyne Cougar facility in Sunnyvale, California. Despite planning, relocation of manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to involve, among other things, change of personnel, application of a new business system software and learning or adaptation of manufacturing processes and techniques. Production delays at the new operating location could result. As permitted by SEC rules, our current management’s report as to our assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting excludes our 2005 acquisitions from its scope and coverage. We plan to evaluate more fully the internal controls of these acquired companies in 2006, and implement a formal and rigorous system of internal controls at these acquired companies. The Company can provide no assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains no material weaknesses with respect to these acquired companies or other acquisitions. We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and development and capital expenditures or possible acquisitions. In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial investments in research and development of new or enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities. 17 Table of Contents Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our $280.0 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital, research and development and capital investment needs, we may be unable to fund all of these needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within our control, including the existence of a public offering market, investor perceptions of our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions. We may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in certain new markets. We intend to both adapt our existing technology and develop new products to expand into new market segments. For example, we have been developing new fuel cell related technologies. The market for fuel cell technologies is not well established and there are a number of companies that have announced intentions to develop and market fuel cell products. Some of these companies have greater financial and/or technological resources than we do. We have also been developing new electronic products, including electronic flight bags, high-power millimeter traveling wave tubes and imaging sonar systems, which are intended to access markets in which Teledyne does not currently participate or has limited participation. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these markets if our products do not meet our customers’ requirements, due to either changes in technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by our competitors. We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that satisfy customer requirements. Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as development and testing time periods might be condensed. Technological change and evolving industry standards could cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or non-competitive. The markets for a number of our products and services are generally characterized by rapid technological development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or services, or in market demand for products or services based on a particular technology, could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. For example, Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.’s high voltage connector business could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower voltage requirements where the number of competitors is larger. Also, most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use tubes that require high voltage connectors. LED backlights, which are increasingly being used for aircraft lighting displays, have substantially lower voltage requirements. 18 Table of Contents Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products or services. In this respect, the Company has been working to make sure that certain of its electronic products sold into European member states comply with a directive not to contain impermissible levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl ethers on or after July 1, 2006. Although many of our products are exempt from the European directive, we expect that over time component manufacturers may discontinue selling components that have the restricted substances. This will, in turn, require Teledyne to accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are soldered, and may in some cases require redesign of certain products. Product liability claims or recalls could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for immaterial amounts. While we have general liability and other insurance policies concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., is $25.0 million. Additionally, based on facts and circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Product recalls and field service actions could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, Teledyne Continental Motors had been engaged in a product recall of piston engine crankshafts whereby the Company recorded a $12.0 million pretax charge in the second quarter of 2000. Product recalls have the potential for tarnishing a company’s reputation and could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. In 2002, we reached a monetary settlement related to the 2000 recall with two of three companies that manufactured and processed allegedly defective steel subsequently made into aircraft engine crankshafts. We failed to win a jury verdict against a third company involved in making the steel. The Company continues to pursue cost recovery through litigation against one other materials supplier as a result of the 2000 product recall program. There is no assurance that the Company will recover any additional costs. The Company has been joined, among a number of defendants (often over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not identify any of the Company’s products as a source of asbestos exposure, and the Company has been dismissed from cases for lack of product identification, but only after some defense costs have been incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne” name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our 1999 spin-off. The Company’s historic insurance coverage, including that of its predecessors, may not fully cover such matters, as coverage depends on the year of purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, the Company intends to defend these claims vigorously. Congress continues to consider legislative reform to deal with asbestos-related claims. Certain gas generators manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. contain a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the company has been transitioning to a replacement material, has placed warning labels on its products and takes care in handling of this material by employees, there is no assurance that the Company will not face product liability claims involving this component. Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory is certified by the Department of Energy and has other nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently have errors 19 Table of Contents and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with faulty radiological analyses. We cannot assure that we will not have additional product liability claims or that we will not recall any additional products. We may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such coverage. As a manufacturer of a variety of products including aircraft engines used in general aviation aircraft, we have general liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure that, for 2006 and in future years, insurance carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. If such insurance is available, we may be required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage and/or increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. The Company’s current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires in May 2006 and has an annual self-insured retention of $25.0 million. To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, the Company continues to try to reduce manufacturing and other costs and also to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on its aircraft engines and spare parts. The Company cannot provide assurances that further cost reduction efforts will prove successful or that customers will accept additional price increases. For certain electronic components for medical applications that we manufacture, such as those that go into cochlear implants, we have asked for indemnities from our customers and/or to be included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however, provide assurance that such indemnities or insurance will offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of our manufacture of such components. Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can affect insurance coverages, such as the 2005 devastating hurricane season, our ability to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for such insurance are affected by our historical claims experience. While the Company has taken steps to improve its claims management process over the last few years, we cannot assure that for 2006 and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the amount of self-insured retentions or reserves will not be negatively impacted by our experience in prior years. Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products and services. Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. New or existing competitors may also develop new technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Industry consolidation trends, particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, could adversely affect demand for our products and services if prime contractors seek to control more aspects of vertically integrated projects. We sell products and services to customers in industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic activity. We derive significant revenues from the commercial aerospace industry. Domestic and international commercial aerospace markets are cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new commercial aircraft has been related to the stability and health of domestic and international economies. Delays or changes in aircraft and component orders could impact the future demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the market for 20 Table of Contents commercial aircraft has improved since the downturn triggered by the events of September 11th and the war in Iraq, another such event could increase the level of uncertainty regarding future orders for aircraft. In addition, we sell products and services to customers in industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic activity and in mature industries that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries may reduce demand for our products and services, which may reduce our profits, or our production levels, or both. We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy exploration market, which has been cyclical and suffered from over capacity in prior years. Strong demand and increased prices for oil and natural gas contributed to substantial revenue growth at Teledyne Geophysical Instruments since 2003. A cyclical downturn in these prices may affect future operating results. We sell products to customers in industries that may undergo rapid and unpredictable changes. We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001, many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market segment, or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future and may adversely affect our operating results, or our production levels, or both. We are subject to the risks associated with international sales. During 2005, international sales accounted for approximately 18% of our total revenues, compared with 19% in 2004 and 16% in 2003. We anticipate that future international sales will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues. Risks associated with these sales include: • political and economic instability; • international terrorism; • export controls; • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; and • exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our products to international customers and therefore reduce our competitive position. That is, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our European customers may no longer find our product prices more attractive than European competitors. The September 11th terrorist attacks, nuclear proliferation concerns and other factors have resulted in increased export scrutiny of sales of some of our products to international customers. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern and other countries may negatively affect continuing international sales or service revenues from such regions. Compliance with increasing environmental regulations and potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We, like other industry participants, are subject to various federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 21 Table of Contents While the Company, as part of its overall risk management program, has an environmental management and compliance program applicable to its operating facilities, including a “review and audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every three years, such program does not eliminate potential environmental liabilities. In addition, as the Company continues to pursue acquisitions, while it conducts environmental-related due diligence and generally seeks some form of protection, including indemnification from a seller, such acquired companies may have environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition. Some of our businesses work with highly dangerous substances that require heightened standards of care. For example, as a systems contractor for the U.S. Army’s Program Manager for Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel, we conduct research, development, manufacturing, test and evaluation and site operations related to the safe and environmentally protective disposal of small caches of chemical munitions and materiel located in over 30 states and territories and binary chemical agents located at Pine Bluff Arsenal, Arkansas. The destruction of chemical weapons is an inherently dangerous activity. Except for a contained fire during a demonstration testing in an historic program of a process designed to access rockets, we have not experienced any accidents or other adverse consequences as a result of our participation in weapon destruction programs. We cannot, however, assure that we will not experience any problems in the future. Although the federal government provides certain indemnities to contractors in these programs, these indemnities may be insufficient to offset liabilities that we may incur in connection with our participation in these programs. For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other Matters — Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” and Notes 2 and 15 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel has become even more competitive as the domestic economy has improved in recent years. While we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, product lines that we determine no longer meet with our growth strategy. Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate our product lines to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy. For example, we determined that the on-line process control instruments business of the German subsidiary of Isco, Inc. was not aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005, we sold this non-strategic business. Our ability to dispose of product lines that may no longer be aligned with our strategy will depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance as to when, if or on what terms any non-strategic product lines will be sold. Also, we cannot provide any assurance as to the availability, timing, terms or conditions of alternative courses of action, including closure, if the sale of any non-strategic product line cannot be consummated. 22 Table of Contents Provisions of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of Teledyne Technologies more difficult. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Rights Agreement and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make the acquisition of control of Teledyne Technologies in a transaction not approved by our board of directors more difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with 15 members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover effect. The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do so. Since the spin-off on November 29, 1999, the market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of $7.6875 to a high of $39.54 per share. At February 28, 2006, our closing stock price was $33.13. Fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • variations in our operating results; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • acquisitions; • adverse business developments; • war in the Middle East or elsewhere; • additional terrorist activities; • increased military or homeland defense activities; • changes to the Federal budget; • changes in the semiconductor, telecommunications, commercial aviation and electronic manufacturing services markets; • general market conditions; and • general economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology companies in particular, have experienced a high degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as to our stock price. The Company’s financial statements are based in part on estimates required by GAAP, and actual results may differ materially from those estimated under different assumptions or conditions. The Company’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These principles require our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for such items as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment assessments, employee benefits, taxes, aircraft product and general liability and contingencies. While the Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time made, actual results may differ materially from those estimated. While the Company believes its control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief 23 Table of Contents Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Natural disasters, such as a serious earthquake in California or a major hurricane in Alabama, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Several of our facilities, due to their locations, could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or a hurricane. Many of our production facilities and our headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas with above average seismic activity. In addition, we have manufacturing facilities in Southeastern United States and Texas that have been threatened and struck by major hurricanes. While Teledyne Continental Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing facility, located in Mobile, Alabama, and Teledyne Geophysical Instruments’ facility in Houston, Texas, were relatively fortunate with respect to the building damage and business interruption they suffered during the severe 2005 hurricane season, there can be no assurance that either will be as fortunate in the future. If any of our California facilities, including our California headquarters, were to experience a catastrophic earthquake loss or if any of our Alabama, Tennessee or Texas facilities were to experience a catastrophic hurricane, storm or tornado, such event could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or facilities. While Teledyne has property insurance to partially reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement, such insurance would not cover all possible losses. Also, our existing disaster recovery plans (including those relating to our information technology systems) may not be fully responsive to, or minimize losses associated with, catastrophic events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 24 Table of Contents 