Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and our overall financial performance. In addition to the matters discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we believe the more significant of such risks and uncertainties include the following: RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE PROPOSED SALE OF OUR INTEGRATED CONTACT SOLUTIONS BUSINESS UNIT If we fail to complete the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit, our business may be harmed. The completion of the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, and we cannot guarantee that the sale will be completed. We also cannot be sure that other circumstances, such as the occurrence of a material adverse effect, will not arise that would allow TeleTech to terminate the Acquisition Agreement prior to closing. If the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit is not approved or does not close, then our board of directors will be forced to evaluate other alternatives, which may be less favorable to us than the proposed sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit. As a result of our announcement of the sale of our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit on March 17, 2011, third parties may be unwilling to enter into material agreements with respect to our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit. New or existing customers and business partners may prefer to enter into agreements with our competitors who have not expressed an intention to sell their business, because customers and business partners may perceive that such new relationships are likely to be more stable. Employees working in the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit may become concerned about the future of the business and lose focus or seek other employment. If we fail to complete the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit, the failure to maintain existing business relationships or enter into new ones could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to complete the proposed sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit, we will retain and continue to operate the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit. The resultant potential for loss or disaffection of employees or Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit customers could have a material, negative impact on the value of our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit. In addition, if the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit is not consummated, our directors, executive officers, and other employees will have expended extensive time and effort and will have experienced significant distractions from their work during the pendency of the transaction and we will have incurred significant third-party transaction costs, in each case, without any commensurate benefit, which may have a material and adverse effect on our stock price and results of operations. The holders of our Common Stock are unlikely to receive any of the proceeds from the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit. The purchase price for the assets of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit will be paid directly to the Company. Management could spend or invest the net proceeds from the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. We intend to use a portion of the net proceeds from the sale to support the development of our Behavioral Analytics™ Service Business Unit and for general corporate purposes, including our continued investment in the personnel required to sell and manage complex, long-term relationships with the customers of our Behavioral Analytics™ Service, as well as investment in the resources required to develop, deliver, and support our Behavioral Analytics™ Service. The investment of these proceeds may not yield a favorable return. In addition, under the terms of the certificate of designations governing our outstanding Series B convertible preferred stock (the “Series B Stock”), the completion of the proposed sale would create certain preference rights in favor of the holders of Series B Stock. In particular, we will be prohibited from paying dividends or making any other distributions (including through stock repurchases) to the holders of our Common Stock until the holders of Series B Stock have received payment of their full liquidation preference, which is currently approximately $19.4 million. As a result of the preference rights for the Series B Stock and our need for cash resources to operate the Behavioral Analytics™ Service Business Unit, we do not expect that any proceeds from the proposed sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit will remain for distribution to the holders of our Common Stock. The Acquisition Agreement may expose us to contingent liabilities. Under the Acquisition Agreement, we agree to indemnify TeleTech for breaches or violations of any representation, warranty, covenant, or agreement made by us in the Acquisition Agreement, for pre-closing and other liabilities related to the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit, and for other matters, subject to certain limitations. Significant indemnification claims by TeleTech could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We will generally not be obligated to indemnify TeleTech for any breach of the representations and warranties made by us under the Acquisition Agreement until the aggregate amount of claims for indemnification for such breach exceeds $200,000. In the event that claims for indemnification for breach of the representations and warranties made by us under the Acquisition Agreement exceed the stated threshold, we may be obligated to indemnify TeleTech for any damages or loss resulting from such breach in an amount not to exceed $1.5 million. Claims for indemnification for breach of any covenant, agreement, or other matter made by us in the Acquisition Agreement, including claims with respect to excluded assets or retained liabilities, or claims for fraud or intentional misrepresentation, are not subject to the limits described above. 6 Table of Contents Our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit has historically generated a substantial portion of our revenue. After its sale, we will be a much smaller company, and in order to succeed, we will need to achieve profitability of our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit. Our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit has historically been the source of a substantial portion of our revenue. For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011, our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit accounted for $60 million, or 68%, of our total revenues of $88 million, while our Behavioral Analytics™ Service Business Unit accounted for only $28 million of our total revenues. In addition, after the sale, our customer concentration will increase. The Company’s top five clients accounted for 31% of total revenue in fiscal year 2010, whereas the top five clients for the Behavioral Analytics™ Service Business Unit accounted for 70% of that Business Unit’s revenue in fiscal year 2010. Higher concentration of revenue with a single client or a limited group of clients creates increased revenue risk if one of these clients significantly reduces its demand for our Behavioral Analytics™ Service. Furthermore, we intend to invest a portion of the net proceeds of the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit to grow our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit. There is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve sustained growth or profitability in our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit or in new business opportunities we may pursue. Our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit is generating losses and has uncertain future revenue and income potential. We are currently experiencing losses in our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit and we expect to continue to use cash and incur operating expenses to support its growth, including costs associated with recruiting, training, and managing our sales force, costs to develop and acquire new technology, and promotional costs associated with reaching new customers. These investments, which typically are made in advance of revenue, may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit is uncertain. Any evaluation of our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit and our prospects following the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit must be considered in light of these factors and the risks and uncertainties often encountered by companies in the early stage of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to do the following: • maintain our current relationships, and develop new relationships, with customers, service providers and business partners; • continue to grow our revenue and meet anticipated growth targets; • manage our expanding operations and implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls; • successfully introduce new, and upgrade our existing, products and services for consumers; • respond to government regulations relating to our Behavioral Analytics™ Service Business Unit; • respond effectively to competition; and • attract and retain qualified management and employees. If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operations, and prospects could suffer. We will be a very small public company with a large cash balance. Once the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit is completed, we will remain a publicly traded company and will continue to be subject to SEC and Nasdaq rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While all public companies face the costs and burdens associated with being publicly traded, the costs and burden of being a public company will be a significant portion of our annual revenues after the sale of our Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit is consummated. In addition, given our size and the fact that the sole focus of our business will be our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit, our management will have an even greater expectation from stockholders and industry analysts to produce improved quarterly financial results for our Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit as compared to the periods prior to the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit, when the diversity of our revenue streams could enable one of our segments to offset weakness in the other. After giving effect to the sale of the Integrated Contact Solutions Business Unit, on a pro forma basis, we would have had approximately $50.9 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of January 1, 2011. Having a large cash balance relative to our market capitalization could make us a takeover target in the future, which could cause distractions for our management and our board of directors and otherwise prevent us from executing on our strategy for the Behavioral Analytics™ Business Unit to build long-term stockholder value. 7 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE COMPANY GENERALLY We have not realized a profit in ten years and there is no guarantee that we will realize a profit in the foreseeable future. As of January 1, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $204.1 million. We incurred net losses available to common stockholders of $14.6 million in 2010, $11.9 million in 2009, and $22.9 million in 2008, and may continue to incur net losses in the future. Our financial results could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our clients’ financial conditions and the levels of business activity of our clients and the industries we serve. This may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, these economic conditions may cause our clients to delay payments for services we have provided to them, resulting in a negative impact to our cash flow. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, then we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. Our financial results are subject to significant fluctuations because of many factors, any of which could adversely affect our stock price. It is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our Common Stock may fall. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are not in our control. We may incur an impairment of goodwill if our financial results are adversely impacted by these factors and we continue to incur financial losses or our stock price declines. These factors include: • Unanticipated cancellations or deferrals of, or reductions in the scope of, major engagements; • Our ability to deliver complex projects and to provide scalable and reliable solutions hosting; • The number, size, and scope of our projects; • Our client retention and acquisition rate and satisfaction with our services and solutions; • The length of the sales cycle associated with our solutions; • The sale of product; • The efficiency with which we utilize our employees; • How we plan and manage our existing and new engagements; • Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement; • Our ability to manage future growth, particularly the growth of the Behavioral Analytics™ Service; • Changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • Number of billing days; and • Availability of qualified employees. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of a significant client or a substantial decline in the number or scope of projects that we do for a significant client, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. We derive, and expect to continue to derive for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our total revenue from a limited number of clients. See “Business” and “Clients” in Part I Item 1 and “Year Ended January 1, 2011 Compared with the Year Ended December 26, 2009” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II Item 7 of this Form 10-K. With the exception of our subscription clients for the Behavioral Analytics™ Service, the volume of services that we provide for a specific client is likely to vary from year to year, and a major client in one year might not use our services in a subsequent year. To the extent that any significant client uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, as may occur as clients respond to conditions affecting their own businesses, our total revenue could decline substantially and that could seriously harm our business. 8 Table of Contents We depend on good relations with our major clients, and any harm to these good relations may materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to compete effectively. To attract and retain clients, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high quality consulting services and managed services. We design, create, implement, host, maintain, and support applications and solutions that are often critical to our clients’ businesses. We believe that we generally enjoy good relations with our clients. However, if a client is not satisfied with our services, products, or solutions, including those of subcontractors or vendors that we may utilize, it may be damaging to our reputation and business. Any defects or errors in our services or solutions or failure to meet our clients’ expectations could result in: • Delayed or lost revenue; • Obligations to provide additional services to a client at a reduced fee or at no charge; • Negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain clients; and • Claims for damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations with our clients, then we could be subject to legal liabilities or loss of clients. Although our contracts typically include provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims for the services and solutions we provide and the applications and systems we develop or integrate, these provisions may not protect us in all cases. If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with increasingly complex client projects and new service offerings, our profit margins and our financial results may suffer. We may fail to estimate accurately the time and resources necessary for the performance of our services. It can be difficult to judge the time and resources necessary to complete consulting services projects, to deploy, support, and operate hosted solutions, to support and maintain complex contact center architectures, and/or to anticipate the amount of product needed to complete a project. A number of different risks must be accounted for, including, but not limited to, the variability and predictability of the number, size, scope, cost, and duration of and revenue from client engagements, unanticipated cancellations or deferrals of client contracts or follow-on phases of engagements in process, collection of revenue, variable employee utilization rates, project personnel costs, and other engagement requirements. Accurate estimates as to the costs and timing of completion of engagements is particularly important for the contracts that are performed on a fixed-price or not-to-exceed basis. Our failure to estimate accurately these risks could reduce the profitability of, or result in a loss on, our engagements and could damage our client relationships and our reputation. Our industry is very competitive and, if we fail to compete successfully, our market share and business will be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing market and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services similar to those we offer. The market includes a variety of participants that compete with us at various levels of our business, including strategic consulting firms, systems integrators, general information-technology services providers, web consulting firms, voice recording and voice analytic service providers, application service providers, and other firms that provide both consulting and systems integration services and solutions. New market entrants also pose a threat to our business. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, more clients and longer relationships with their clients, greater brand or name recognition, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and public relations resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may have comparatively better abilities to compete for specific clients and market share generally, including through substantial economic incentives to clients to secure contracts. Existing or future competitors may develop or offer solutions that are comparable or superior to ours at a lower price. In addition, our competitors may be in a better position to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements or expectations. They may also develop and promote their products and services more effectively than we do and be better able to compete for skilled professionals by offering substantial compensation incentives. We rely heavily on our senior management team for the success of our business. Given the highly specialized nature of our services, senior management must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage the organization. If one or more members of our senior management team leaves and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, then we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, and this could harm our business prospects, client relationships, employee morale, and results of operations. Our ability to recruit talented professionals and retain our existing professionals is critical to the success of our business. We believe that our success will depend substantially on our ability to attract, train, motivate, and retain highly skilled management, strategic, technical, product development, and other key professional employees. The information-technology services industry continues to be people-intensive and faces a shortage of qualified personnel, especially those with specialized skills or experience. We compete with other companies to recruit and hire from this limited pool. If we cannot hire and retain qualified personnel, or if a significant number of our current employees leave, then we may be unable to complete or retain existing engagements or bid for new engagements of similar scope and revenue. 9 Table of Contents If one or more of our key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions and we had difficulty replacing such persons, then we could potentially suffer the loss of client relationships or new business opportunities and our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, there is no guarantee that the employee and customer non-solicitation and non-competition agreements we have entered into with our senior professionals would deter them from departing us for our competitors or that such agreements would be upheld and enforced by a court or other arbiter across all jurisdictions where we engage in business. We must keep pace with the rapid rate of technological innovation and change, as well as evolving industry standards, in order to build our business. Our industry is characterized by rapid and continually changing technologies, the introduction of many new products and services, and evolving industry standards and client preferences. Our solutions must meet the requirements of, and achieve significant acceptance among our current and prospective clients within, this environment. Our future business will depend on our continuing ability to adapt to and incorporate changing technologies and emerging industry standards and to remain knowledgeable with respect to our core areas of expertise. In addition, our future business depends upon continued growth in the acceptance and use of the Behavioral Analytics™ Service by our current and prospective clients. Their acceptance and usage in turn may depend upon factors such as: the actual or perceived benefits of adoption of the Behavioral Analytics™ Service and related methodologies and technologies, including the predictability of a meaningful return on investment, cost efficiencies, or other measurable economic benefits; the actual or perceived reliability, scalability, ease of use, and access to such new technologies and methodologies; and the willingness to adopt new business methods incorporating a customer-centric approach. We cannot assure that we will be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments and challenges on a timely or competitive basis or at all, or that our ideas and solutions will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, new or disruptive technologies and methodologies by our competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our ability to obtain and successfully complete substantial new client engagements that are important to maintain and grow our business. We depend on our ability to rapidly learn, use, and integrate software and other technology developed by third parties to successfully compete, and our ability to maintain and grow our business may be affected by our ability to maintain strong relationships with software providers and other alliance partners. To provide certain of our solutions and services, we rely on third-party software, telephony, and other infrastructure and related services. If we are unable to integrate these components in a fully functional manner, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, or marketing of new solutions. We could also incur substantial costs if we need to modify our services or infrastructure to adapt to changes in these third-party products and services. We have invested time and resources in initiating and maintaining strong relationships with certain software and technology providers and we plan to make additional investments in this regard in the future. The benefits we anticipate from these relationships play an important role in our future growth strategies. We rely on these relationships with third-party vendors and alliance partners to allow us to learn rapidly about their existing and next-generation technologies, to develop appropriate methods to integrate their products and services into our solutions, and to obtain joint sponsorship of solution offerings. If we are unable to successfully initiate and/or maintain these relationships, then our ability to successfully create and deploy new solution offerings incorporating their technologies would be significantly reduced. In addition, we may be adversely affected by the failure of one or more of our vendors or alliance partners, which could lead to reduced marketing exposure, fewer sales leads or joint marketing opportunities, and a diminished ability to gain access to or develop leading-edge solutions. As our most important alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are also free to establish similar or preferred relationships with our competitors. These circumstances could adversely impact the success of our growth strategies that, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations. It may be difficult for us to access debt or equity markets to meet our financial needs. In the event, for any reason, we need to raise additional funds in the future, through public or private debt or equity financings, such funds may not be available or may not be available on terms favorable to us. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success and competitive position. Our ability to protect our software, methodologies, and other intellectual property is important to our success and our competitive position. We view as proprietary the intellectual property that we develop internally in order to improve and enhance the service offerings of our Business Units, as well as that associated with the work product resulting from our services for clients. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by applying for patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as appropriate, as well as by enforcing applicable trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure, licensing, copying, reverse engineering, and assignment. 10 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, others may attempt to disclose, obtain, or use our rights. The steps we take may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may not detect unauthorized use of, or take timely and effective actions to enforce and protect, our intellectual property rights. We may be required to obtain licenses from others to refine, develop, market, and deliver current and new services and solutions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any of these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that rights granted by these licenses ultimately will be valid and enforceable. Others could claim that our services, products, or solutions infringe upon their intellectual property rights or violate contractual protections. We believe that our services, products, and solutions do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. However, we or our clients may be subject to claims that our services, products, or solutions, or the products of our software providers or other alliance partners, infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Any such infringement claims may result in substantial costs, divert management attention and other resources, harm our reputation, and prevent us from offering some services, products, or solutions. A successful infringement claim against us could materially and adversely affect our business. In our contracts, we generally agree to indemnify our clients for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringement by our services, products, or solutions, excluding third-party components, of the intellectual property rights of others. In some instances, the amount of these indemnity obligations may be greater than the revenue we receive from the client under the applicable contract. In addition, our business includes the development of customized software modules in connection with specific client engagements, particularly in our systems integration business. We often assign to clients the copyright and, at times, other intellectual property rights in and to some aspects of the software and documentation developed for these clients in these engagements. Although our contracts with our clients generally provide that we also retain rights to our intellectual property, it is possible that clients may assert rights to, and seek to limit our ability to resell or reuse, this intellectual property. Increasing government regulation could cause us to lose clients or impair our business. We are subject not only to laws and regulations applicable to businesses generally, but we, and the solutions we offer to our clients, also may be subject to United States and foreign laws and regulations, specifically those applicable to data privacy and security, electronic commerce, and call recording. Laws and regulations recently enacted in the United States, both at the state and federal level, have imposed significant new requirements relating to the privacy and security of personal data, as well as the reporting of breaches with respect to personal data. Legislation that may be enacted in the future may add further requirements in these and other areas. In addition, we may be affected indirectly by legislation to the extent that it impacts our existing and prospective clients; for example, our clients in the health care industry are currently impacted by the uncertainty surrounding the health care reform effort. Any such laws and regulations therefore could affect our existing business relationships or prevent us from obtaining new clients. The unauthorized disclosure of the confidential client data that we maintain could result in a significant loss of business to eLoyalty and subject us to substantial liability. In the course of implementing our Behavioral Analytics™ Service, we record and analyze telephone calls between our clients’ customer service agents and customers. These calls contain numerous references to highly sensitive confidential or personally-identifiable data of the customers of our clients, and many of our clients are required to comply with federal and state laws concerning privacy and security. In addition, we have made certain contractual commitments to our clients regarding this confidential data. We take extensive precautions to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or loss of such data and to protect the Company through technical and contractual means. Nonetheless, the disclosure or loss of such data could result in the considerable diminution of our business and prospects and could subject us to substantial liability. In addition, the laws and regulations and industry standards governing these matters are changing rapidly. It is possible that the resources we devote to comply with such laws and regulations, industry standards, and our clients’ particular requirements could increase materially. In our contracts, we generally agree to indemnify our clients for expenses and liabilities resulting from unauthorized disclosure of confidential data. In some instances, the amount of these indemnity obligations may be greater than the revenue we receive from the client under the applicable contract. We must maintain our reputation and expand our name recognition to remain competitive. We believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation and brand name is critical for attracting and expanding our targeted client base. If our reputation is damaged or if potential clients do not know what solutions we provide, then we may become less competitive or lose our market share. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in providing high quality services, software, and solutions, which cannot be assured. If clients do not perceive our solutions to be effective or of higher quality than those available from our competitors, then our brand name and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Our clients use our solutions for critical applications. Any errors, defects, or other performance problems, including those in our proprietary software or products supplied by third-party vendors, could result in financial or other damages. In addition to any liability we might have, performance problems could also adversely affect our brand name and reputation. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 