Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. 1Table of ContentsPART IItem 1.BusinessOverviewWe are a leading provider of optical subsystems and components that are used in data communication and telecommunication applications. Our optical subsystems consist primarily of transmitters, receivers, transceivers, transponders and active optical cables that provide the fundamental optical-electrical, or optoelectronic, interface for interconnecting the electronic equipment used in building communication networks, including the switches, routers and servers used in wireline networks as well as the antennas and base stations for wireless networks. These products rely on the use of semiconductor lasers and photodetectors in conjunction with integrated circuits and novel optoelectronic packaging to provide a cost-effective means for transmitting and receiving digital signals over fiber optic cable at speeds ranging from less than 1 gigabit per second, or Gbps, to more than 100 Gbps, over distances of less than 10 meters to more than 2,000 kilometers, using a wide range of network protocols and physical configurations. We supply optical transceivers and transponders that allow point-to-point communications on a fiber using a single specified wavelength that, bundled with multiplexing technologies, can be used to supply multi-Gbps bandwidth over several wavelengths on the same fiber. We also provide products known as wavelength selective switches, or WSS. In long-haul and metro networks, each fiber may carry 50 to 100 different high-speed optical channels, each with its own specific optical wavelength. WSS are switches that are used to dynamically switch network traffic from one optical fiber to multiple other fibers without first converting the optical signal to an electronic signal. The wavelength selective feature means that WSS enable any wavelength or combination of wavelengths to be switched from the input fiber to the output fibers. WSS products are sometimes combined with other components and sold as linecards that plug into a system chassis referred to as a reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexer, or ROADM. Our line of optical components consists primarily of packaged lasers and photodetectors for data communication and telecommunication applications and passive optical components used in telecommunication applications. Demand for our products is largely driven by the continually growing need for additional network bandwidth created by the ongoing proliferation of data and video traffic driven by video downloads, Internet protocol TV, social networking, on-line gaming, file sharing, enterprise IP/Internet traffic, cloud computing, and data center virtualization that must be handled by both wireline and wireless networks. Mobile traffic is increasing as the result of proliferation of smartphones, tablet computers, and other mobile devices.Our manufacturing operations are vertically integrated and we utilize internal sources for many of the key components used in making our products including lasers, photodetectors and integrated circuits, or ICs, designed by our internal IC engineering teams. We also have internal assembly and test capabilities that make use of internally designed equipment for the automated testing of our optical subsystems and components.We sell our optical products primarily to manufacturers of storage systems, networking equipment and telecommunication equipment, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade, Ciena, Cisco Systems, EMC, Emulex, Ericsson, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard Company, Huawei, IBM, Juniper, Nokia-Siemens, Qlogic and Tellabs, as well as their contract manufacturers. These customers, in turn, sell their systems to businesses and to wireline and wireless telecommunication service providers and cable TV operators, collectively referred to as carriers.We were incorporated in California in April 1987 and reincorporated in Delaware in November 1999. Our principal executive offices are located at 1389 Moffett Park Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94089, and our telephone number at that location is +1- 408-548-1000.All references to “Finisar,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are references to Finisar Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively, except as otherwise indicated or where the context otherwise requires.Business StrategyIn order to maintain our position as a leading supplier of fiber optic subsystems and components, we are continuing to pursue the following business strategies: 2Table of Contents•Continue to Invest in or Acquire Critical Technologies to Further Our Vertical Integration Strategy. Our years of engineering experience, our multi-disciplinary technical expertise and our participation in the development of industry standards have enabled us to become a leader in the design and development of optical subsystems and components. We have developed and acquired critical skills that we believe are essential to maintaining a technological lead in our markets including high speed semiconductor laser design and wafer fabrication, complex logic and mixed signal integrated circuit design, optical subassembly design, software coding, system design, and manufacturing test design. In the process of investing in and/or acquiring critical technologies, we have obtained a number of U.S. and foreign patents with other patents pending. We intend to maintain our technological leadership through continual enhancement of our existing products and the development or acquisition of new products. Of special interest are technologies that enable smaller, more efficient, and lower cost transceivers capable of transmitting data at higher speeds, over longer distances, or at greater capacity per fiber.•Expand Our Broad Product Line of Optical Subsystems. We offer one of the broadest portfolios of optical subsystems that support a wide range of speeds, fiber types, wavelengths, distances and functionality and are available in a variety of industry standard packaging configurations, or form factors. Our optical subsystems are designed to comply with key networking protocols such as Fibre Channel, Gigabit Ethernet, Optical Transport Network, or OTN, and Synchronous Optical Networking/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy, or SONET/SDH, and plug directly into standard port configurations used in our customers’ products. The breadth of our optical subsystems product line is important to many of our customers who are seeking to consolidate their supply sources for a wide range of networking products for diverse applications. We are focused on the ongoing expansion of our product line to add key products to meet our customers’ needs. Where time-to-market considerations are especially important in order to secure or enhance our supplier relationships with key customers, we may elect to acquire additional product lines.•Leverage Core Competencies Across Multiple, High-Growth Markets. We believe that fiber optic technology will remain the transmission technology of choice for Fibre Channel and Ethernet data communication applications, including 1 Gigabit Ethernet and 10 Gbps, 40 Gbps and 100 Gbps Ethernet-based networks, and OTN- and SONET/SDH-based telecommunication applications. We also believe that wavelength management and switching technologies, such as those found in WSS, optical channel monitors and linecards will be increasingly important in optical transmission networks. These markets are characterized by differentiated applications with unique design criteria such as product function, performance, reliability, cost, in-system monitoring, size, power dissipation and software. We intend to target opportunities where our core competencies in high-speed data transmission protocols can be leveraged into leadership positions as these technologies are extended across multiple data communication and telecommunication applications and into other markets and industries such as high performance computing, military, medical and consumer electronics products.•Strengthen and Expand Customer Relationships. Over more than 20 years, we have established valuable relationships and a loyal base of customers by providing high-quality products and superior service. Our service-oriented approach has allowed us to work closely with leading data communication and telecommunication system manufacturers to understand and address their current needs and anticipate their future requirements. •Continue to Strengthen Our Lower-Cost Manufacturing Capabilities. We believe that new markets can be created by the introduction of new, lower-cost, high value-added products. We achieve lower product costs through the introduction of new technologies, product design and market presence. Our in-house lower-cost manufacturing resources are also a key factor in our ability to offer a lower-cost product solution. We have established our own manufacturing facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia and Shanghai, China in order to take advantage of lower-cost labor while protecting access to our intellectual property and know-how. In addition, access to critical underlying technologies, such as our laser manufacturing and IC design capabilities enables us to accelerate our product development efforts to be able to introduce new low cost products more quickly. We continue to seek ways to lower our production costs through improved product design, improved manufacturing and testing processes and increased vertical integration.ProductsOur optical subsystems and components are integrated into our customers’ systems and used for fiber optics-based data communication and telecommunication networks.Our family of optical subsystem products consists of transmitters, receivers, transceivers, transponders and active optical cables principally based on the Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel, OTN and SONET/SDH protocols. A transmitter uses a laser plus direct or indirect modulation to convert electrical signals into optical signals for transmission over fiber optics. Receivers incorporating photo detectors convert incoming optical signals into electrical signals. A transceiver combines both transmitter 3Table of Contentsand receiver functions in a single device. A transponder includes an IC to provide the data serializer-deserializer function that would otherwise reside in the customer’s equipment if a transceiver is used. An active optical cable combines two transceivers and a fiber optic cable that are built into an integrated, connectorized cable assembly that is sold in various cable lengths. Our optical subsystem products perform these functions with high reliability and data integrity and support a wide range of protocols, transmission speeds, fiber types, wavelengths, transmission distances, physical configurations and software enhancements.Our high-speed optical subsystems are engineered to deliver value-added functionality and intelligence. Most of our optical subsystem products include a microprocessor with proprietary embedded software that provides customers real-time monitoring of transmitted and received optical power, temperature, drive current and other link parameters for each port in their systems. For data communication applications that rely on the Fibre Channel standard, we currently provide a wide range of optical subsystems for transmission applications at 1 to 16 Gbps. For data communication applications that rely on the Ethernet standard, we provide a broad range of optical subsystems for transmitting signals at 1 to 100 Gbps using the SFP, SFP+, XFP, X2, QSFP, CFP and CFP2 form factors. For OTN and SONET/SDH-based telecommunication applications, we supply optical subsystems that are capable of transmitting at 0.155, 0.622, 2.5, 10, 40 and 100 Gbps.We also offer a full line of optical subsystems for telecommunication applications using wavelength division multiplexing, or WDM technologies. Our products include coarse wavelength division multiplexing, or CWDM, transceivers in the SFP form factor and dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, transceivers in the SFP, SFP+ XFP, CFP and 300-pin form factors. These products include both fixed wavelength transceivers and tunable transceivers that are capable of dynamically tuning across a range of wavelengths in the C- and L-Bands.As a result of several acquisitions, we have gained access to leading-edge technology for the manufacture of a number of active and passive optical components including vertical cavity surface emitting lasers, or VCSELs, Fabry-Perot, or FP, lasers, distributed feedback, or DFB, lasers, tunable lasers, positive intrinsic negative, or PIN, detectors, fused fiber couplers, isolators, filters, polarization beam combiners, interleavers, splitters and amplifiers. Most of these optical components are used internally in the manufacture of our optical subsystems. We currently sell some of these components in the so-called “merchant market” to other subsystems manufacturers.We also offer products used in building fiber-to-the-home/curb networks and for parallel optics applications such as backplanes for switches and routers. We offer WSS and ROADM linecard products for wavelength management in DWDM telecommunication networks. These capabilities are made possible in part through the use of our unique liquid crystal on silicon, or LCoS, technology, similar to that used in miniature projectors. This technology provides a highly flexible WSS capable of operating on both 50 and 100 GHz International Telecommunications Union, or ITU, grids, based on our patented FlexgridTM technology. In addition, this LCoS-based architecture offers the capability for in-service upgrades of functionality and integration of additional system functionality, including drop and continue, channel monitoring and channel contouring features. Our WSS and ROADM linecard product offering ranges from 1x2, 1x4 and 1x9 products up to higher output fiber port counts in our latest 1x23 product.CustomersOur revenues are principally derived from sales of optical subsystems and components to a broad base of original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, distributors and system integrators. Sales of products for data communication applications represented 63%, 56% and 50% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales of products for telecommunication applications represented 37%, 44% and 50% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to our ten largest customers represented 54%, 59% and 64% of our total revenues during fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. One customer, Cisco Systems, represented more than 10% of our total revenues during fiscal 2013. Two customers, Cisco Systems and Huawei, each represented more than 10% of our total revenues during fiscal 2012. Three customers, Cisco Systems, Huawei and Alcatel-Lucent, each represented more than 10% of our total revenues during fiscal 2011. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in any of these years. 4Table of ContentsTechnologyThe development of high quality optical subsystems and components for high-speed communications requires multidisciplinary expertise in the following technology areas:High Frequency Integrated Circuit Design. Our optical subsystems development efforts are supported by an engineering team that specializes in analog/digital IC design. This group utilizes semiconductor technologies such as silicon complementary-metal-oxide-semiconductor, or Si CMOS, and silicon germanium bipolar CMOS, or SiGe BiCMOS, to design high-speed, high performance, proprietary ICs such as laser drivers, receiver pre-and post-amplifiers and microprocessors. These proprietary ICs are incorporated across our transceiver and transponder product portfolio at data rates from 1 to 100 Gbps. We are designing advanced LCoS controller ICs for our WSS and ROADM linecard products. Our internally developed ICs provide significant cost and performance advantages throughout our current product portfolio. Our in-house IC design capabilities are critical to our ongoing development of future products with even faster data rates, higher performance, and lower cost.Optical Subassembly and Mechanical Design. We established ourselves as a low-cost design leader beginning with our initial optical subsystems in 1992. From that base we have developed single-mode laser alignment approaches and low-cost, all-metal packaging techniques for improved electromagnetic interference, or EMI, performance and environmental tolerance. We develop our own component and packaging designs and integrate these designs with proprietary manufacturing processes that allow our products to be manufactured in high volume.System Design. The design of all of our products requires a combination of sophisticated technical competencies, including optical engineering, high-speed electrical design, digital and analog application specific IC, or ASIC, design and firmware and software engineering. We have built a substantial organization of engineers and scientists with skills in all of these areas. It is the integration and combination of these technical competencies that enables us to design and manufacture optical subsystem and component products that meet the needs of our customers. Manufacturing System Design. Hardware, firmware and software design skills are utilized to provide specialized manufacturing test systems for our internal use. These test systems are optimized for test capacity and broad test coverage. We use automated, software-controlled testing to enhance the field reliability of all Finisar products and to reduce the level of capital expenditures that would otherwise be required to purchase these test systems.Optoelectronic Device Design and Wafer Fabrication. The ability to manufacture our own optical components provides significant cost savings as well as the ability to create unique, high performance components that are not commercially available. This enhances our competitive position in terms of performance, time-to-market and intellectual property. Most significantly, we design and manufacture a number of active components that are used in our optical subsystems. Our acquisition of Honeywell’s VCSEL Optical Products business unit in March 2004 provided us with wafer fabrication capability for designing and manufacturing all of the 850 nm VCSEL components used in our shorter distance transceivers for data communication applications. The acquisition of Genoa Corporation in April 2003 provided us with a state-of-the-art foundry for the manufacture of PIN detectors and 1310 nm FP and DFB lasers used in our longer distance transceivers, although we continue to rely on third-party suppliers for a portion of our DFB laser requirements. The acquisition of Ignis AS in May 2011 provided us, through Ignis' wholly owned subsidiary Syntune AB located in Sweden, with access to an internal source of tunable lasers for use in our 300-pin transponders and tunable XFP transceivers for telecommunication applications.CompetitionThe market for optical subsystems and components for use in data communication and telecommunication applications remains highly competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors in these markets are:•product performance, features, functionality and reliability;•price/performance characteristics;•timeliness of new product introductions;•breadth of product line;•adoption of emerging industry standards;•service and support;•size and scope of distribution network;•brand name;•access to customers; and•size of installed customer base. 5Table of ContentsCompetition in the market for optical subsystems and components varies by market segment. Our principal competitors for optical transceivers sold for data communication applications include Avago Technologies, JDS Uniphase and Oclaro. Our principal competitors for optical transceivers sold for telecommunication applications include JDS Uniphase, Oclaro and Sumitomo. Our principal competitors for WSS ROADM products include CoAdna, JDS Uniphase, Oclaro and Oplink. We believe we compete favorably with our competitors with respect to most of the foregoing factors based, in part, upon our broad product line, our sizeable installed base, our significant vertical integration and our lower-cost manufacturing facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia and Shanghai, China. Sales, Marketing and Technical SupportFor sales of our optical subsystems and components, we utilize a direct sales force augmented by three world-wide distributors, 17 international distributors, three domestic distributors, 20 domestic manufacturers’ representatives and four international manufacturers’ representatives. Our direct sales force maintains close contact with our customers and provides technical support to our manufacturers’ representatives. In our international markets, our direct sales force works with local resellers who assist us in providing support and maintenance in the territories they cover.Our marketing efforts are focused on increasing awareness of our product offerings for optical subsystems and our brand name. Key components of our marketing efforts include:•continuing our active participation in industry associations and standards committees to promote and further enhance Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel and SONET/SDH/OTN technologies, promote standardization in the data communication and telecommunication markets, and increase our visibility as industry experts; and•leveraging major trade show events and conferences to promote our broad product lines.In addition, our marketing group provides marketing support services for our executive staff, our direct sales force and our manufacturers’ representatives and resellers. Through our marketing activities, we provide technical and strategic sales support to our direct sales personnel and resellers, including in-depth product presentations, technical manuals, sales tools, pricing, marketing communications, marketing research, trademark administration and other support functions.A high level of continuing service and support is critical to our objective of developing long-term customer relationships. We emphasize customer service and technical support in order to provide our customers and their end users with the knowledge and resources necessary to successfully utilize our product line. Our customer service organization utilizes a technical team of field and factory applications engineers, technical marketing personnel and, when required, product design engineers. We provide extensive customer support throughout the qualification and sale process. In addition, we provide many resources through our World Wide Web site, including product documentation and technical information. We intend to continue to provide our customers with comprehensive product support and believe it is critical to remaining competitive.BacklogA substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales to OEMs and system integrators through hub arrangements where revenue is generated as inventory that resides at these customers or their contract manufacturers is drawn down. Visibility as to future customer demand is limited in these situations. Most of our other revenues are derived from sales pursuant to individual purchase orders that remain subject to negotiation with respect to delivery schedules and are generally cancelable without significant penalties. Manufacturing capacity and availability of key components can also impact the timing and amount of revenue ultimately recognized under such sale arrangements. Accordingly, we do not believe that the backlog of undelivered product under these purchase orders at a particular time is a meaningful indicator of our future financial performance.ManufacturingWe manufacture most of our optical subsystems at our production facility in Ipoh, Malaysia. This facility consists of 640,000 square feet, of which 240,000 square feet is suitable for clean room operations. We also conduct a portion of our new product introduction operations at our Ipoh facility. We manufacture short wavelength parallel optical transceiver products and certain passive optical components used in our long wavelength transceiver products as well as ROADM linecards products and WSS assemblies, at our 180,000 square foot facility in Shanghai, China. We entered into a 50 year lease for 550,000 square feet of land in Wuxi, China, where we are in the process of building an additional manufacturing facility to manufacture products for both data communication and telecommunication applications. We manufacture WSS products in our 6Table of Contents51,500 square foot facility in Sydney, Australia and certain telecommunication products in our 81,000 square foot facility in Horsham, Pennsylvania. We manufacture splitters in our 24,000 and 34,500 square foot facilities in GwangJu, Korea. We continue to conduct a substantial portion of our new product introduction activities at our Sunnyvale, California, Horsham, Pennsylvania, and Sydney, Australia facilities. In Sunnyvale, we also conduct supply chain management for certain components as well as quality assurance and documentation control operations. We maintain an international purchasing office in Shenzen, China. We conduct wafer fabrication operations for the manufacture of VCSELs used in short wavelength transceiver products at our facility in Allen, Texas. We conduct wafer fabrication operations for the manufacture of long wavelength FP and DFB lasers at our facility in Fremont, California. We conduct wafer fabrication operations for the manufacturing of tunable lasers and photonic integrated circuits, or PICs, in our facility in Jarfalla, Sweden. We expect to continue to use contract manufacturers for a portion of our manufacturing needs, primarily printed circuit board assemblies. We design and develop a number of the key components of our products, including photodetectors, lasers, ASICs, printed circuit boards and software. In addition, our manufacturing team works closely with our engineers to manage the supply chain. To assure the quality and reliability of our products, we conduct product testing and burn-in at our facilities in conjunction with inspection and the use of testing and statistical process controls. In addition, most of our optical subsystems have an intelligent interface that allows us to monitor product quality during the manufacturing process. Our facilities in Sunnyvale and Fremont, California; Allen, Texas; Horsham, Pennsylvania; Shanghai, China; Ipoh, Malaysia; and Sydney, Australia are qualified under ISO 9001-9002.Although we use standard parts and components for our products wherever possible, we currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. Our principal single source components purchased from external suppliers include ASICs and certain DFB lasers that we do not manufacture internally. Generally, purchase commitments with our single or limited source suppliers are on a purchase order basis. We generally try to maintain a buffer inventory of key components. However, any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components, or the inability to procure these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable time, would substantially harm our business. In addition, qualifying additional suppliers can be time-consuming and expensive and may increase the likelihood of errors.We use a rolling 12-month forecast of anticipated product orders to determine our material requirements. Lead times for materials and components we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the demand for such components in relation to each supplier’s manufacturing capacity, internal manufacturing capacity, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time.Research and DevelopmentIn fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, our research and development expenses related to our continuing operations were $158.8 million, $146.0 million and $117.3 million, respectively. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continue to enhance and reduce the cost of our existing products and to develop new products that maintain technological and business competitiveness. We focus our product development activities on addressing the evolving needs of our customers within the data communication and telecommunication markets. We also seek opportunities to leverage the technical and product competencies created for our core markets to develop products for other applications, especially products using active optical components that we design and manufacture. We work closely with our OEM and system integrator customers to monitor changes in the marketplace. We design our products around current industry standards and will continue to support emerging standards that are consistent with our product strategy. Our research and development groups are aligned with our various product lines, and we also have specific groups devoted to ASIC design and test, subsystem design, and software design. Our product development operations include the active involvement of our manufacturing engineers who examine each product for its manufacturability, predicted reliability, expected lifetime and manufacturing costs.We believe that our research and development efforts are key to our ability to maintain technical and business competitiveness and to deliver innovative products that address the needs of the market. However, there can be no assurance that our product development efforts will result in commercially successful products, or that our products will not be rendered obsolete by changing technology or new product announcements by other companies.Intellectual PropertyOur success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We currently own 1,938 issued U.S. and foreign patents and have 352 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We cannot assure that any patents will issue as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any 7Table of Contentsfailure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult. We have been involved in extensive litigation to enforce certain of our patents and are currently engaged in such litigation. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could significantly harm our business.The optical networking and communications industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We have been involved in extensive litigation to protect our products against accusations of infringement. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." From time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies in various jurisdictions that are important to our business, and such claims could result in additional litigation. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our business. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed.EmployeesAs of April 28, 2013, we employed approximately 9,720 full-time employees and contractors, 778 of whom were located in the United States and 7,936 of whom were located at our production facilities in Ipoh, Malaysia, and Shanghai and Wuxi, China. We also, from time to time, employ part-time employees. Our employees are not represented by any union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. Certain of our employees in our Sydney, Australia facility are subject to a collective agreement not involving a union. We believe that there is a positive employee relations environment within our company.Available InformationOur website is located at www.finisar.com. Electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available, free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 1A.Risk FactorsOUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF RISKS, INCLUDING THOSE DESCRIBED BELOW. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES.Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which may result in volatility or a decline in the price of our stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly due to a number of factors, including: •fluctuation in demand for our products;•the timing of new product introductions or enhancements by us and our competitors;•the level of market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products;•the timing of acquisitions that we have undertaken;•the timing or cancellation of large customer orders; 8Table of Contents•the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products;•pricing policy changes by us and our competitors and suppliers;•the availability of development funding and the timing of development revenue; •changes in the mix of products sold;•increased competition in product lines, and competitive pricing pressures; and•the evolving and unpredictable nature of the markets for products incorporating our optical components and subsystems. We expect that our operating results will continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these factors and a variety of other factors, including: •fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•the emergence of new industry standards;•failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements;•the loss or gain of important customers;•product obsolescence; and•the amount of research and development expenses associated with new product introductions. Our operating results could also be harmed by: •the continuation or worsening of the current global economic slowdown or economic conditions in various geographic areas where we or our customers do business;•acts of terrorism and international conflicts or domestic crises;•other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders; or•a downturn in the markets for our customers' products, particularly the data storage and networking and telecommunication components markets. We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons. Orders at the beginning of each quarter are typically lower than expected revenues for that quarter and are generally cancelable with minimal notice. Accordingly, we depend on obtaining orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure to ship these products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our customer agreements typically provide that the customer may delay scheduled delivery dates and cancel orders within specified timeframes without significant penalty. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will again decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, it is likely that the trading price of our common stock would significantly decline. As a result of these factors, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from levels expected by the investment community could cause a decline in the trading price of our stock. We may lose sales if our suppliers or independent contract manufacturers fail to meet our needs or go out of business. We currently purchase a number of key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources, and we rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain key components and subassemblies, including lasers, modulators, and printed circuit boards. We depend on these sources to meet our production needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the components and subassemblies that they supply to us, over which we have limited control. Several of our suppliers are or may become financially unstable as the result of current global market conditions. In addition, from time to time we have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components, and we may encounter additional shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We generally have no long-term contracts with any of our component suppliers or contract manufacturers. As a result, a supplier or contract manufacturer can discontinue supplying components or subassemblies to us without penalty. If a supplier were to discontinue supplying a key component or cease operations, the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays could be lengthy, and our business could be substantially harmed. We are also subject to potential delays in the development by our suppliers of key components which may affect our ability to introduce new products. Similarly, disruptions in the operations of our key suppliers or in the services provided by our contract manufacturers, including disruptions due to natural disasters, or the transition to other 9Table of Contentssuppliers of these key components or services could lead to supply chain problems or delays in the delivery of our products. These problems or delays could damage our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component and subassembly requirements. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for particular components. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business. If we are unable to realize anticipated cost savings from the transfer of certain manufacturing operations to our overseas locations and increased use of internally-manufactured components our results of operations could be harmed. As part of our ongoing initiatives to reduce the cost of revenues which will continue over the next several quarters, we expect to realize significant cost savings through (i) the transfer of certain product manufacturing operations to lower cost off-shore locations and (ii) product engineering changes to enable the broader use of internally-manufactured components. The transfer of production to overseas locations may be more difficult and costly than we currently anticipate which could result in increased transfer costs and time delays. Further, following transfer, we may experience lower manufacturing yields than those historically achieved in our U.S. manufacturing locations. In addition, the engineering changes required for the use of internally-manufactured components may be more technically-challenging than we anticipate and customer acceptance of such changes could be delayed. If we fail to achieve the planned product manufacturing transfer and increase in internally-manufactured component use within our currently anticipated timeframe, or if our manufacturing yields decrease as a result, we may be unsuccessful in achieving cost savings or such savings will be less than anticipated, and our results of operations could be harmed. Continued competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years while the industry that supplies these customers has experienced less consolidation. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems and components are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Increased consolidation in our industry, should it occur, will reduce the number of our competitors but would be likely to further strengthen surviving industry participants. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances and may be able to react quicker to changing customer requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that network systems vendors may re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture the optical subsystems incorporated in their network systems. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. Our principal competitors for data communication applications include Avago Technologies, JDS Uniphase and Opnext. Our principal competitors for telecommunication applications include JDS Uniphase, Oclaro, Opnext and Sumitomo. Our competitors continue to introduce improved products and we will have to do the same to remain competitive. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce our gross margins. The market for optical subsystems is characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased competition, overcapacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. We have in the past experienced, and in the future may experience, substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to declining average selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices will decrease in the future in response to product introductions by competitors or us, or by other factors, including pricing pressures from significant customers. In particular, we typically conduct pricing negotiations for our existing products with some of our largest telecommunication OEM customers in the last several months of the calendar year. Decreases in our average selling prices resulting from these negotiations typically become effective at the beginning of the next calendar year and generally have an adverse impact on our gross margins in future quarters. This impact is typically most pronounced in our fourth fiscal quarter ending in April, when the impact of the new pricing is first felt over a full quarter. In order to sustain profitable operations, we must continue to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our revenues and gross margins to decline, which would result in additional operating losses and significantly harm our business. 10Table of Contents We may be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to enable us to compete with others. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and could adversely affect our margins. In order to remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or improve our gross margins. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in gross margins. Gross margins on individual products fluctuate over the product's life cycle. Our overall gross margins have fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product costs, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future.Failure to accurately forecast our revenues could result in additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments. We base many of our operating decisions, and enter into purchase commitments, on the basis of anticipated revenue trends which are highly unpredictable. Some of our purchase commitments are not cancelable, and in some cases we are required to recognize a charge representing the amount of material or capital equipment purchased or ordered which exceeds our actual requirements. In the past, we have periodically experienced significant growth followed by a significant decrease in customer demand such as occurred in fiscal 2001, when revenues increased by 181% followed by a decrease of 22% in fiscal 2002. Based on projected revenue trends during these periods, we acquired inventories and entered into purchase commitments in order to meet anticipated increases in demand for our products which did not materialize. As a result, we recorded significant charges for obsolete and excess inventories and non-cancelable purchase commitments which contributed to substantial operating losses in fiscal 2002. Should revenues in future periods again fall substantially below our expectations, or should we fail again to accurately forecast changes in demand mix, we could again be required to record substantial charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments. If we encounter sustained yield problems or other delays in the production or delivery of our internally-manufactured components or in the final assembly and test of our products, we may lose sales and damage our customer relationships. Our manufacturing operations are highly vertically integrated. In order to reduce our manufacturing costs, we have acquired a number of companies, and business units of other companies that manufacture optical components incorporated in our optical subsystem products and have developed our own facilities for the final assembly and testing of our products. For example, we design and manufacture many critical components incorporated in transceivers used for data communication and telecommunication applications, including all of the short wavelength VCSEL lasers, at our wafer fabrication facility in Allen, Texas and manufacture a portion of our internal requirements for longer wavelength lasers at our wafer fabrication facility in Fremont, California. We assemble and test most of our transceiver products at our facility in Ipoh, Malaysia. As a result of this vertical integration, we have become increasingly dependent on our internal production capabilities. The manufacture of critical components, including the fabrication of wafers, and the assembly and testing of our products, involve highly complex processes. For example, minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process or other factors can cause a substantial portion of the components on a wafer to be nonfunctional. These problems may be difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and often are time-consuming and expensive to correct. From time to time, we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields at our wafer fabrication facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of components. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. In addition, changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically significantly reduced our manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Poor manufacturing yields over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our ability to deliver our subsystem products to our customers and could also affect our sale of components to customers in the merchant market. Our inability to supply components to meet our internal needs could harm our relationships with customers and have an adverse effect on our business. The markets for our products are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards with respect to the protocols used in data communication and telecommunication networks. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current 11Table of Contentsand potential customer requirements. For example, the market for optical subsystems is currently characterized by a trend toward the adoption of “pluggable” modules and subsystems that do not require customized interconnections and by the development of more complex and integrated optical subsystems. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products and/or a charge for the impairment of long-lived assets related to such products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to a slowdown in demand or in the expectation of a new product release or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: •changing product specifications and customer requirements;•unanticipated engineering complexities;•expense reduction measures we have implemented, and others we may implement, to conserve our cash and attempt to achieve and sustain profitability;•difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel;•difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and•changing market or competitive product requirements. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. The introduction of new products also requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, for which benefit will not be realized if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of the new product introduction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business.We are dependent on widespread market acceptance of our optical subsystems and components, and our revenues will decline if the markets for these products do not expand as expected. We derive all of our revenue from sales of our optical subsystems and components. Accordingly, widespread acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. If the market does not continue to accept our optical subsystems and components, our revenues will decline significantly. Our future success also ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure. As part of that growth, we are relying on increasing demand for voice, video and other data delivered over high-bandwidth network systems as well as commitments by network systems vendors to invest in the expansion of the global information network. As network usage and bandwidth demand increase, so does the need for advanced optical networks to provide the required bandwidth. Without network and bandwidth growth, the need for optical subsystems and components, and hence our future growth as a manufacturer of these products, will be jeopardized, and our business would be significantly harmed. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, in order to achieve widespread market acceptance, we must differentiate ourselves from our competition through product offerings and brand name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making this differentiation or achieving widespread acceptance of our products. Failure of our existing or future products to maintain and achieve widespread levels of market acceptance will significantly impair our revenue growth. We depend on large purchases from a few significant customers, and any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business. A small number of customers have consistently accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with our major customers. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. We may not be 12Table of Contentsable to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers, and our quarterly results may be volatile because we are dependent on large orders from these customers that may be reduced or delayed. The markets in which we have historically sold our optical subsystems and components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. Recent consolidation of portions of our customer base, including telecommunication systems manufacturers, and potential future consolidation, may have a material adverse impact on our business. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critically important to our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers or that our customers will be successful in selling their products that incorporate our products. We have in the past experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers. In addition, our customers have in the past sought price concessions from us, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Expense reduction measures that we have implemented over the past several years, and additional action we are taking to reduce costs, may adversely affect our ability to introduce new and improved products which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationships with some of our key customers. Further, some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products from us to our competitors or to joint ventures between these customers and our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions that we may make could significantly harm our business. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time if we fail to meet our customers' needs. Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly: •our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty;•our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and•our customers are not required to make minimum purchases. Sales are typically made pursuant to inventory hub arrangements under which customers may draw down inventory to satisfy their demand as needed or pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. If we are unable to fulfill these orders in a timely manner, it is likely that we will lose sales and customers. If our major customers stop purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our customers often evaluate our products for long and variable periods, which causes the timing of our revenues and results of operations to be unpredictable. The period of time between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of an actual purchase order may span a year or more. During this time, customers may perform, or require us to perform, extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of our products before purchasing and using the products in their equipment. These products often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. Our customers do not typically share information on the duration or magnitude of these qualification procedures. The length of these qualification processes also may vary substantially by product and customer, and, thus, cause our results of operations to be unpredictable. While our potential customers are qualifying our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial research and development and sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. Even after incurring such costs we ultimately may not sell any products to such potential customers. In addition, these qualification processes often make it difficult to obtain new customers, as customers are reluctant to expend the resources necessary to qualify a new supplier if they have one or more existing qualified sources. Once our products have been qualified, the agreements that we enter into with our customers typically contain no minimum purchase commitments. Failure of our customers to incorporate our products into their systems would significantly harm our business. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the future, and failure to do so may harm our business. We believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with the cash expected to be generated from future operations, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future, to finance future acquisitions that we may propose to undertake or to repay or otherwise retire our outstanding convertible debt in the aggregate principal amount of $40 million, which is subject to redemption by the holders in October 2014, 2016, 2019 and 2024. Due to the unpredictable nature of the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, we cannot assure you that we will be able to 13Table of Contentsraise additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience disappointing operating results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. Our international business and operations expose us to additional risks. Products shipped to customers located outside the United States account for a majority of our revenues. In addition, we have significant tangible assets located outside the United States. Our principal manufacturing facility is located in Malaysia. We currently operate smaller facilities in Australia, China, Israel, Korea and Sweden, and we are currently building an expanded manufacturing facility in China. We also rely on several contract manufacturers located in Asia for our supply of key subassemblies. Conducting business outside the United States subjects us to a number of additional risks and challenges, including:•periodic changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession;•compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers;•certification requirements;•environmental regulations;•inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;•potential political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers and contract manufacturers are located;•preferences of certain customers for locally produced products;•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures, including assuring compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U. S. and foreign anticorruption laws;•seasonal reductions in business activities in certain countries or regions; and•fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. These factors, individually or in combination, could impair our ability to effectively operate one or more of our foreign facilities or deliver our products, result in unexpected and material expenses, or cause an unexpected decline in the demand for our products in certain countries or regions. Our failure to manage the risks and challenges associated with our international business and operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We license certain of our proprietary technology, including our digital diagnostics technology, to customers who include current and potential competitors, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property rights in this technology. Although a number of patents have been issued to us, we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, and we have filed applications for additional patents, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Additionally, significant technology used in our product lines is not the subject of any patent protection, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection on such technology in the future. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. We are currently engaged in pending litigation to enforce certain of our patents, and additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. In connection with the pending litigation, substantial management time has been, and will continue to be, expended. 14Table of ContentsIn addition, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, substantial legal expenses in connection with these pending lawsuits. These costs and this diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. Claims that we or any user of our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. The networking industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We have been involved in the past as a defendant in patent infringement lawsuits, and we were recently found liable in a patent infringement lawsuit involving two of our cable TV products, each of which has subsequently been redesigned. In addition, in connection with a patent infringement lawsuit that we initiated in January 2010, the defendants raised counterclaims alleging patent infringement by us, and in a later case, the defendant also raised patent infringement counterclaims against us. In connection with our settlement of two of the cases, we received royalty free licenses to the patents involved. While, as a result of various procedural events in the 2010 lawsuit and a tolling agreement between the parties, certain patent counterclaims are not currently being asserted against us, such claims could be re-asserted against us in the future. From time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our business. Further, claims against a user of our products in combination with other products that such use infringes proprietary rights of third parties could cause users to choose to not or be required to not utilize our products in such combination, which could harm our sales of such products. Any claims, against us or any use of our products, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. Numerous patents in our industry are held by others, including academic institutions and competitors. Optical subsystem suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products. Licenses granting us the right to use third party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers. Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers' products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. If we are unable to retain our key management and technical personnel and attract and retain additional key personnel as required, our business could be significantly harmed. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team, many of whom have years of management, engineering, sales, marketing and manufacturing experience that would be difficult to replace. We also believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. In particular, we will need to increase the number of our technical staff members with experience in high-speed networking applications as we further develop our product lines. Competition for these highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. In making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key management and technical personnel. The loss of service of any our key management 15Table of Contentsor technical employees, our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring key personnel, as required, could significantly harm our business. In addition, employees may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We have been subject to claims of this type and may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits.Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect both our revenues and our costs and expenses and significantly affect our operating results. Prices for our products are currently denominated in U.S. dollars for sales to our customers throughout the world. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country relative to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country's currency, our products may be less competitive in that country and our revenues may be adversely affected. Although we price our products in U.S. dollars, portions of both our cost of revenues and operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, principally the Malaysian ringgit, the Chinese yuan, the Australian dollar, the Israeli shekel, the Swedish krona, the Korean won, and the Norwegian krone. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in one or more countries will exceed the rate of the devaluation of that country's currency in relation to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and ongoing military actions in the Middle East. Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the United States and ongoing military actions in the Middle East, including the economic consequences of the war in Afghanistan or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties we are subject to: •increased risks related to the operations of our manufacturing facilities in Malaysia;•greater risks of disruption in the operations of our China, Singapore and Israeli facilities and our Asian contract manufacturers, including contract manufacturers located in Thailand, and more frequent instances of shipping delays; and•the risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities.Future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. In addition to our combination with Optium in August 2008 and our acquisitions of Ignis in May 2011 and Red-C in July 2012, we have completed the acquisition of ten privately-held companies and certain businesses and assets from six other companies since October 2000. We continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities, and we from time to time make proposals and offers, and take other steps, to acquire businesses, products and technologies. The Optium merger and several of our other past acquisitions have been material, and acquisitions that we may complete in the future may be material. In 13 of our 19 acquisitions, we issued common stock or notes convertible into common stock as all or a portion of the consideration. The issuance of common stock or other equity securities by us in connection with any future acquisition would dilute our stockholders' percentage ownership. Other risks associated with acquiring the operations of other companies include: •problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products;•unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition;•diversion of management's attention from our core business;•adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 16Table of Contents•risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and•potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. Not all of our past acquisitions have been successful. In the past, we have subsequently sold some of the assets acquired in prior acquisitions, discontinued product lines and closed acquired facilities. As a result of these activities, we incurred significant restructuring charges and charges for the write-down of assets associated with those acquisitions. Through fiscal 2013, we have written off all of the goodwill associated with our past acquisitions with the exception of the recently completed acquisitions of Ignis and Red-C. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with the recent Ignis acquisition or potential future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could significantly harm our business. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with the Ignis acquisition or any of our future acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record additional write downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments which may not be successful, may result in the loss of all or part of our invested capital and may adversely affect our operating results. Since inception we have made minority equity investments in a number of early-stage technology companies, totaling approximately $61.9 million. Our investments in these early stage companies were primarily motivated by our desire to gain early access to new technology. We intend to review additional opportunities to make strategic equity investments in pre-public companies where we believe such investments will provide us with opportunities to gain access to important technologies or otherwise enhance important commercial relationships. We have little or no influence over the early-stage companies in which we have made or may make these strategic, minority equity investments. Each of these investments in pre-public companies involves a high degree of risk. We may not be successful in achieving the financial, technological or commercial advantage upon which any given investment is premised, and failure by the early-stage company to achieve its own business objectives or to raise capital needed on acceptable economic terms could result in a loss of all or part of our invested capital. Between fiscal 2003 and 2013, we wrote off an aggregate of $26.2 million in seven investments which became impaired and reclassified $4.2 million of another investment to goodwill as the investment was deemed to have no value. We may be required to write off all or a portion of the $884,000 in such investments remaining on our balance sheet as of April 28, 2013 in future periods. Our ability to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. As of April 28, 2013, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforward amounts of approximately $467.3 million, $160.4 million and $75.7 million for U.S. federal, state and foreign income tax purposes, respectively, and tax credit carryforward amounts of approximately $22.8 million and $14.9 million for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, respectively. The federal and state tax credit carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2014 through 2032, and $108,000 of such carryforwards will expire in the next five years. The federal and state NOL carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2014 through 2029, and $127.2 million of such carryforwards will expire in the next five years. Utilization of these NOL and tax credit carryforward amounts may be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership change limitations under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the NOL and tax credit carryforward amounts before utilization.We will lose sales if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products, and we would be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. Government and administered by the United States Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, administered by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, administered by the Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our fiber optics products are subject to EAR and certain of our RF-over-fiber products, as well as certain products developed with government funding, are currently subject to ITAR. Products developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, 17Table of Contentsfinancial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. Government regulations also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. We have previously been the subject of inquiries from the Department of State and the Department of Justice regarding compliance with ITAR. Although these inquiries were closed with no action being taken, we expended significant time and resources to resolve them, and future inquiries of this type could also be costly to resolve.We are subject to pending securities class action and shareholder derivative legal proceedings. Several securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following our March 8, 2011 announcement of unaudited financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and our financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We also have been named as a nominal defendant in several shareholder derivative lawsuits filed in 2011 concerning our March 8, 2011 earnings announcement and filed in 2007 concerning the granting of stock options. No specific amounts of damages have been alleged in the class action lawsuits and, by the nature of the lawsuits, no damages will be alleged against Finisar in the derivative lawsuits.We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. The expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. We intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, however there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. If any of the lawsuits related to our earnings announcement are adversely decided, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside our control. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, floods, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks in the United States and overseas. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our manufacturing operations are located in California, and our principal manufacturing operations and those of most of our key suppliers and contract manufacturers are located in Asia. These areas have been vulnerable to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and fires, and other risks which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We are also dependent on communications links with our overseas manufacturing locations and would be significantly harmed if these links were interrupted for any significant length of time. We presently do not have adequate redundant, multiple site capacity if any of these events were to occur, nor can we be certain that the insurance we maintain against these events would be adequate. The conversion of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes would result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. As of April 28, 2013, we had outstanding 5.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2029 in the principal amount of $40.0 million. These notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of 10.68 per share. An aggregate of approximately 3,748,478 shares of common stock would be issued upon the conversion of all outstanding convertible notes at this conversion price, which would dilute the voting power and ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. We have previously entered into privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of our convertible notes for the repurchase of notes in exchange for a greater number of shares of our common stock than would have been issued had the principal amount of the notes been converted at the original conversion rate specified in the notes, thus resulting in more dilution. We may enter into similar transactions in the future and, if we do so, there will be additional dilution to the voting power and percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Delaware law, our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: •authorizing the board of directors to issue additional preferred stock;•prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; 18Table of Contents•limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;•prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;•creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three-year terms;•permitting the board of directors to increase the size of the board and to fill vacancies;•requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which limit the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons. Although we believe that these charter and bylaw provisions and provisions of Delaware law provide an opportunity for the board to assure that our stockholders realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on Finisar common stock and, consequently, a stockholder's ability to achieve a return on such stockholder's investment will depend on appreciation in the price of the common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on Finisar common stock and we do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, a stockholder is not likely to receive any dividends on such stockholder's common stock for the foreseeable future. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: •trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate;•changes in the market price of the products we sell;•changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;•acquisitions and financings;•quarterly variations in our operating results;•the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors in our common stock may deem comparable; and•purchases or sales of blocks of our common stock. Part of this volatility is attributable to the current state of the stock market, in which wide price swings are common. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. If any of the foregoing occurs, our stock price could fall and we may be exposed to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 19Table of Contents