ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors are important and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, or an investment in our common stock. In particular, our results of operations, revenue, liquidity and capital resources may be materially and unfavorably affected by a number of risk factors, trends and uncertainties. Set forth below are some of the risk factors, trends and uncertainties which we believe could have a material and unfavorable impact on our results of operations, revenue, liquidity, capital resources and any investment in our stock. Additional risk factors, trends and uncertainties may be discussed elsewhere within this document. The following list is not exhaustive, and other factors which are not presently apparent to us also may have a material and unfavorable impact on our business or financial results. Our business is dependent on the aerospace industry Our principal business is in the aerospace industry. This industry is primarily affected by the general state of the economy in the commercial sector and defense budgets of the U.S. and foreign governments in the military 7 Table of Contents sector. Our focus in the commercial sector is in the business jet market. In the military sector, the levels of defense spending as well as the status of international conflicts have a direct impact on our business. The outbreak or escalation of terrorist attacks or international hostilities could cause deterioration in the commercial and business aircraft market. A portion of our business is dependent on U.S. Government contracts Our dependence on revenue from U.S. Government contracts subjects us to a number of risks, including the risk that we may not be successful in bidding for future contracts and the risk that funding for these contracts may be delayed or diverted to other uses. We perform work under a number of contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. Government. Sales under these contracts as a whole, including sales under contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 33%, 30% and 48% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. U.S. Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. While the overall U.S. military budget declined in real dollars from the mid-1980s through the early 1990s, U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years. Increased defense spending does not necessarily correlate to increased business for us, because not all the programs in which we participates or have current capabilities may be earmarked for increased funding. Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its convenience or upon our default. Termination-for-convenience provisions permit only the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to termination. Termination-for-default imposes liability on us for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. A substantial majority of our U.S. Government contracts are fixed price type contracts. A majority of these contracts are for mature products and costs are well established. However, some contracts include costs associated with product development. These types of contracts bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. We, like other U.S. Government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. In addition, we have a compliance program designed to uncover issues that may lead to voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Government. Generally, claims arising out of these inquiries and voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should a business unit or division of the Company involved in a government contract be charged with violation of law, or should the U.S. Government determine that the unit or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that unit or division, and conceivably the Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a violation, could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new U.S. Government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts in defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. If we were to be debarred from U.S. Government contracts, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, revenue, liquidity, and capital resources. 8 Table of Contents As part of the aerospace industry our business in heavily regulated and the cost of non-compliance with applicable regulations could be significant The aerospace industry is heavily regulated and failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could reduce our sales, or require us to incur additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The FAA prescribes standards and licensing requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all of our products. Comparable agencies, such as the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority, the Japanese Civil Aviation Board and South Korea’s Civil Aviation Safety Authority regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be both expensive and time consuming. From time to time the FAA proposes new regulations. These new regulations generally cause an increase in costs to bring our existing and developmental products into compliance. We have to compete against larger well-established companies that are well capitalized We compete with numerous well-established companies. Some of these companies have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources than us. Our ability to be an effective competitor depends in large part on our success in causing our products to be selected for installation in new aircraft, including next generation aircraft, and in avoiding product obsolescence. We are engaged in a highly competitive marketplace, which demands that producers continue to develop new products. Our business will be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to develop new and competitive products Our customers continually seek improvements in the products that we manufacture and market. As a result, in order to meet our customers’ needs, we must continue to develop new products and innovations and enhancements to existing products. Many of our competitors have significantly more capital than we have and as a result have the ability to devote more resources to research and development and to marketing of their products. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to devote a material portion of our financial resources to research and development and there is no assurance that we will be successful in our product improvement efforts in our competitive marketplace. We face continuous pricing pressure from our customers and our competitors. This will affect our margins and therefore our profitability and cash flow unless we can manage efficiently our manufacturing costs and market our products based on superior quality Our customers often award contracts based on product pricing, and we believe we have not received some awards due to pricing discounts given by our competitors. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we have, and as a result may be able to withstand the adverse effect of discounted pricing and reduced margins in order to build market share. While one of our strategies is also to discount to retain and increase market share, and to seek to manage our manufacturing efficiently to sustain acceptable margins, we may not be able to maintain appropriate prices or to manage product manufacturing costs sufficiently to sustain acceptable margins. Similarly, we seek to compete based on product quality rather than price, but we may not be successful in these efforts with enough contract awards to offset the need to reduce prices for other products. This could adversely affect our profitability, our liquidity and our market share. 9 Table of Contents Increases in the prices paid for raw materials or labor costs may adversely affect profit margins If we experience significant increases in the prices paid for raw materials or labor costs, we may not be able to pass through to our customers such increases in those costs. Even if we are able to pass through all or a portion of such cost increases to our customers, profit margins on such products may be reduced. Fixed price contracts are especially susceptible to such profit margin reductions. Our products are used in activities that are inherently risky. Accordingly, we may face product liability and exposure to other claims for which we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance The products that we manufacture are typically used in applications and activities that involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use these products for their intended purposes, failure to use these products properly, malfunction of these products and, in some circumstances, even correct use of these products could result in serious bodily injury or death. We cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim arising out of the use of our products. Any substantial uninsured loss thus would have to be paid out of our assets as applicable and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our current insurance or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that it will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. Any material uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to obtain product liability coverage, then we may be prohibited from bidding for orders from certain government customers because many governmental agencies currently require such insurance coverage. Any inability to bid for government contracts as a result of insufficient insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our industry has rapid technological changes and products that are subject to obsolescence as a result thereof Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and aerospace industry standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance. The markets for a number of our products and services are generally characterized by rapid technological development, evolving aerospace industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or services or in market demand for products or services based on a particular technology could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currently accepted aerospace industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of OP Tech As part of our strategy of revenue growth into related industry markets, we acquired OP Tech in fiscal year 2008. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from this transaction will depend in part upon the integration of the acquired business, the performance of the acquired products, capacities of the technologies acquired as well as the personnel hired in connection therewith. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from transaction-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and charges for impairment of long-term assets. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that this transaction will be successful. There is a risk that we will not receive federal certification for OP Tech’s products or that the products may become obsolete in the market place, in which case the intangible assets recognized in connection with the OP Tech acquisition could become impaired. 10 Table of Contents We face unforeseen liabilities arising from possible acquisitions and dispositions of businesses We have engaged in acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. There could be unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the businesses that we may acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or we are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. We are dependent on the ability to maintain reasonable levels of working capital along with capital needs for expansion Although the aerospace industry niche is not highly capital intensive, our need to expend resources on research and development to provide our customer base with new and enhanced products as well as to continuously upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities requires us to expend significant amounts annually. If we elect to expand our operations in future periods, whether as a result of organic growth or through strategic acquisitions, our capital needs would increase. Our ability to raise capital to meet our existing and future needs may depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within our control, including investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions. We may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if needed. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or raise additional capital in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or scale back on planned research and development or upgrades, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. We rely significantly on our ability to fill orders on a timely basis and collect accounts receivable for liquidity needs Our liquidity depends on cash generated from operations. We have been challenged during fiscal year 2008 to efficiently process orders, ship finished goods, and collect receivables in order to maintain liquidity. Should we continue to experience operational inefficiencies in any of these areas it will have an adverse affect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows and our ability to access credit markets and to obtain reasonable trade terms from our vendors. We are currently experiencing a liquidity challenge In addition to debt service on our credit facilities, we have significant cash obligations we must meet in the near future. Specifically, we are delinquent on numerous payments to vendors that provide critical services and inventory to us. Should we not be able to implement and execute a business plan to meet our cash obligations, improve our cash flows from operations and continue to obtain reasonable vendor terms, our financial condition and operating results will continue to suffer. We incurred a significant net loss in fiscal year 2008 We will need to significantly increase revenues and profit margins to become and stay profitable. If our revenues and profit margins do not increase in our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The terms of our credit facilities include various covenants, and failure to meet these covenants could affect our ability to borrow, which could adversely affect our access to liquidity In the event of default under the terms of our credit facilities, we may be required to negotiate changes to our financial covenants with, or to obtain waivers of certain of these covenants from, Wachovia Bank, N.A. (“Wachovia”) or to negotiate additional or alternative financing arrangements with one or more other financial institutions. During fiscal year 2008 we have, in fact, had to obtain such waivers on occasion from Wachovia. If 11 Table of Contents such actions continue to be necessary, we believe that we will be able to negotiate such changes, waivers and/or replacement financings, but no assurance can be given that we will be successful or as to the terms of any such arrangements. We face risks associated with handling and use of hazardous substances and related environmental matters Our operations require the handling and use of hazardous substances, and we are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, the protection of the environment and the use or cleanup of hazardous substances and wastes. From time to time, our operations could result in violations under such environmental laws, including spills or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. We may incur substantial costs or experience interruptions in our operations for actual or alleged violations or compliance requirements arising under environmental laws. Additionally, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties. In the event of a major incident, we could incur material costs or experience interruption in our operations as a result of addressing the incident and implementing measures to prevent such incidents in the future, as well as potential litigation that could arise from such an incident. In addition, we could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental laws. We face risks associated with international sales During fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, international sales accounted for approximately 18%, 24% and 22%, respectively, of our total revenues. We anticipate that future international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with these sales include: • Political and economic instability; • Export controls and other trade restrictions; • Changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • Changes in tax laws and tariffs; • Convertibility and transferability of international currencies; and • International currency exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our products to international customers and therefore reduce our competitive position. If we are unable to successfully attracted and retain executive leadership and other key personnel, our ability to successfully develop and market our products and operate our business may be harmed Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel is highly competitive. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Subsequent to January 31, 2008, we hired a new Chief Executive Officer. Much of our future success is dependent on his leadership. 12 Table of Contents Terrorism and world conflict could adversely affect our ability to market our product United States and global responses to the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats and other global crises increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats and other global crises and responses thereto, may adversely affect us. While some of our products that are sold to the U.S. Government may experience greater demand as a result of increased defense spending, various responses could realign U.S. Government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of our government programs. U.S. Government spending could shift to defense programs in which we do participate. We have contracts with governments of certain states located in the Middle East. The instability in that region, as well as U.S., local or global responses to potentially controversial policies or actions adopted or taken by such governments, may negatively impact those contracts. We have contracts with the government of South Korea. Recent actions and perceived provocations by the government of North Korea have resulted in increased concern regarding the stability of the Korean armistice. Additionally, reports indicate that North Korea may be moving to produce and test nuclear weapons or otherwise provoke the U.S. and international community. Resulting instability on the Korean peninsula, and any U.S., local or global responses to perceived provocations by the government of North Korea, could impact our contracts with South Korea. While an escalation of hostilities on the Korean peninsula might lead to increased military spending by South Korea, there is no certainty that our contracts with South Korea would benefit. Additionally, it is possible that any instability in that region could have a negative impact on our contracts. Our stock price is volatile because it is affected by numerous factors outside of our control The market price and trading volume of our common stock is subject to significant volatility and this trend may continue. The general economic, political, and stock market conditions that may affect the market prices of our common stock are outside our control. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting market price include, but are not limited to: (i) variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved our key business targets; (ii) the limited number of shares of our common stock available for purchase or sale in the public markets; (iii) sales or purchases of large blocks of stock; (iv) changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates; (v) changes in securities analysts’ buy/sell recommendations; (vi) differences between reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; and (vii) announcements of new contracts by us or by our competitors. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Other factors and general market conditions that could affect our stock price are: • Our quarterly operating results and variations therein; • Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; • Changes in our business; • Changes in the market’s perception of our business; • Changes in the businesses, earnings estimates or market perceptions of our competitors or customers; • Changes in the outlook for the aerospace industry; • Changes in general market or economic conditions unrelated to our performance; • Changes in the legislative or regulatory environment; 13 Table of Contents • Changes in U.S. defense spending or appropriations; • Increased military or homeland defense activities; • An outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities; • Terrorist attacks; • Sales of significant blocks of our common stock; and • Our ability to successfully maintain our line of credit. Additionally, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in the aerospace industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. When a stock’s price continues to fluctuate significantly over a sustained period, the risk of loss, including a total loss, is increased. We do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future We intend to retain our earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. Additionally, covenants in our long-term debt agreements impose significant restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. This lack of dividend could aversely affect the market for our common stock. Our common stock may become subject to penny stock rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock Our common stock may become a “penny stock” pursuant to Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are defined as equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to purchase or sale of a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver to the customer a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks associated with the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market of a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. We have risks related to the inherent limitations of internal control systems We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and prudent industry practice. However, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. 14 Table of Contents The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Company has a material weakness in its internal accounting controls In the 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company noted that it had identified a material weakness in its internal accounting controls because of insufficient staffing in its accounting department. The Company took remedial action to correct this weakness, but, as of the date of the 2008 audit, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer determined that the material weakness had not been remediated and therefore has continued. The reason for this decision is that during the Company’s annual audit, a material weakness arose due to numerous adjustments to the Company’s financial statements that were not detected by the Company’s accounting staff. See Item 9A. By definition, a material weakness means that there is a significant deficiency that, by itself, or in combination with other significant deficiencies, results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Additionally, the existence of a material weakness precludes management from concluding that internal control over financial reporting is effective. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 