D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our ordinary shares. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. The following risks are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report, before making any investment decision regarding our Company. 9 Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred losses, and may incur losses in the future. We incurred losses in 2006 through 2009. We had a net loss of approximately $5.9 million in 2009 and a net loss of approximately $31.0 million in 2008. Our results for the first half of 2009 were affected by the global recession and the slow down in IT market spending and we continued to incur net losses due to our limited ability to adjust our expenses level to the changes in the market in a short period of time. In the second half of 2009 we returned to profitability, as a result of increased revenues and tight expenses control. We will need to generate increased revenues as well as keep tight control over our costs in order to maintain and increase our profitability in the future. Our revenues may not grow or continue at their current level. For example, the growth rate in 2008 compared to 2007 was approximately 7% and the growth rate in 2009 compared to 2008 was approximately 15%. Our gross margin is currently approximately 79% and, as a result, any decrease in sales may have a significant effect on our profitability. In addition, our operating expenses may increase. Our decision to increase operating expenses and the scope of such increase will depend upon several factors, including the market situation and the results that our past expenditures produce. We may continue to make additional expenditures in anticipation of generating higher revenues, which we may not realize, if at all, until some time in the future. For example, in March 2009 we completed the purchase of certain assets from Nortel Networks Ltd., Nortel Networks Inc. and other Nortel entities (“Nortel”) in relation to the “Alteon®” product line (the “Alteon Acquisition”). During 2009, we invested in the development of a new Alteon 5412 application switch and continued to invest in the expansion and development of many other products and enhanc ements, including the release of most of our products on our new line of hardware platforms, the OnDemand Switch®. In addition, we have continued our investments in our existing Application Delivery product lines with AppDirector® and LinkProof® along with the introduction of the vAdapter™ software appliance, Virtual Director™ and AppWall® appliances for the enterprise sector, and continued to enhance our Network Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) DefensePro® product and our central management with Insite. We also invested in new product developments for the carrier sector with the introduction of CID® 3 and SIPDirector®. In parallel to our investments in our products portfolio as described above, we have invested in marketing plans and product promotion efforts. Our efforts as well as our expenditures in these products and any related go-to-market strategies may not result in increased revenues. If our revenues do not increase as anticipate d, or if our expenses increase, we may incur losses. Severe global economic conditions and volatility of the market for our products, including slow-down in expenditures and other trends in our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is dependent on current and anticipated market demand for our products. Starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, the overall market’s IT spending decreased due to real estate and financial issues globally which led to a recessionary period. More specifically, it is estimated that the worldwide datacenter Layer 4-7 (application delivery) switch manufacturing revenues for 2009 only brought the market back to 2006 levels, estimated by IDC (a third party research firm) at a total of $840 million for 2009. This represents a 21% market decline compared to $1.068 billion for 2008. For the Layer 4-7 sector, worldwide market revenue is estimated by IDC to increase to $905.7 million during 2010. In the Intrusion Prevention sector of the network security market, the market according to Gartner ( a third party IT analyst), was almost flat in 2009 with $903 million in vendor revenues compared to $899 million in 2008, with 2010 expected to total only $1.18 billion globally. Although the global economy showed signs of recovery by the end of 2009 and, the economic outlook for 2010 has improved, should the economic slowdown resume, and/or companies in our target markets reduce capital expenditures, we may experience a reduction in sales, as well as downward pressure on the price of our products. In addition, if the market is flat and customers experience low visibility we may not be able to increase our sales. Each of the above scenarios would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 We face the risk of a decrease in our financial income. One of the factors affecting our net income is financial income. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our cash throughout the world is invested in fixed-income securities and bank deposits, and is affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. The outlook for our financial income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates, the amount of any share repurchases or acquisitions that we effect and the amount of cash flows from operations that are available for investment. Any significant decline in our financial income or the value of our investments as a result of continued low interest rates, deterioration in the credit worthiness of the securities in which we have invested, or general market conditions, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 2009 our financial income totaled to $2.0 million, which represents 55% of our financial income in 2008. This decrease is attributed mainly to the decrease in prevailing market interest rates in 2009 compared to 2008. Severe global economic conditions may significantly decrease the value of our investment assets. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Due to certain market developments, including investments’ rating downgrades, the fair value of these investments may decline. If market conditions continue to fluctuate, the fair value of our investments may be impacted accordingly. Our cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term deposits and marketable securities totaled $126.1 million as of December 31, 2009. Our investment portfolio policy is buy and hold, while minimizing credit risk by setting maximum concentration limit per issuer and credit rating. Our investments consist primarily of government and corporate debentures and bank deposits. Although we believe that we generally adhere to conservative investment guidelines, if the turmoil in the financial markets continues, it may result in impairments of the carrying value of our investment assets. This is because we classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale. Changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are not recognized to income during the period, but rather are recognized as a separate component of equity until realized. Realized losses in our investments portfolio may adversely affect our financial position and results. Had we reported all the changes in the fair values of our investments into income, our reported net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009, would have decreased by $1.8 million. One of our primary market risk exposures is changes in interest rates. A decline in market interest rates, such as the significant global decline in recent years, has had an adverse effect on our financial income. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities we hold more quickly than we initially expected. This action may cause us to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. Currently we do not hold any securities which can be redeemed early. An increase in market interest rates could also have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance because of the factors discussed below and seasonal fluctuations in our sales. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: · Our limited order backlog; · Our need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and features; and · The long sales cycles of our products. As a result of the foregoing our results in any quarter may also fall below projected results. 11 In addition, our quarterly operating results have been, and are likely to continue to be, influenced by seasonal fluctuations in our sales. Because our sales have grown year-over-year since inception, these fluctuations may not be apparent from our historical financial statements. However, we believe that our sales and sales growth have been, and will continue to be, affected by the seasonal purchasing patterns of some of our customers. For example, we believe that our sales may be reduced from the levels which we might otherwise have been able to attain during the first quarter of 2010, since some of our customers are still planning their annual purchasing budget in the beginning of the year, and in the third quarter of 2010 because of the slowdown in business activities during the summer months in Europe. We further belie ve that our sales during the fourth quarter of 2010 may be increased because some of our customers tend to make greater capital expenditures towards the end of their own fiscal years. Because of these anticipated fluctuations, our sales and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of future performance and it may be difficult for investors to properly evaluate our prospects. If the market for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions does not continue to develop, we will not be able to sell enough of our products to achieve and maintain profitability. The Application Delivery and Network Security markets in which we operate are rapidly evolving and we cannot assure you that they will continue to develop and grow or that our products and technology will keep pace with these changes. Market acceptance of Application Delivery and Network Security solutions may be inhibited by, among other factors, a lack of anticipated congestion and strain on existing network infrastructures and the availability of alternative solutions. If demand for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions does not continue to grow, we may not be able to sell enough of our products to achieve, maintain and increase profitability. Competition in the market for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions is intense. As a result, we may lose market share and we may be unable to achieve and maintain profitability. The Application Delivery and Network Security markets are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We may lose market share if we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors. Our principal competitors in the Application Delivery solutions market include: F5 Networks, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Citrix Systems, Inc. and Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. (Foundry Networks, Inc.). In addition, we face competitors in the Network Security space, with respect to our Intrusion Prevention Systems. Such principal competitors include Juniper Networks, Inc., 3Com Systems, Inc. (TippingPoint Technologies, Inc.), McAfee, Inc., Sourcefire, Inc., and IBM Corporation (Internet Security Systems). We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter the market or extend t heir portfolios into related technologies. Larger companies with substantial resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing Application Delivery or Network Security solutions and emerge as significant competitors. Competition may result in lower prices or reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover our costs, which may impair our ability to achieve, maintain and increase profitability. Furthermore, the dynamic market environment poses a challenge in predicting market trends and expected growth. Most of our competitors have greater resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. Most of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources than us, which may limit our ability to effectively compete with them. These competitors may be able to: · respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements; · benefit from greater economies of scale; · offer more aggressive pricing; · invest more resources in research and development in order to gain or maintain a competitive advantage; · devote greater resources to the promotion of their products; and/or · bundle their products or incorporate an Application Delivery or Intrusion Prevention component into existing products in a manner that renders our products partially or fully obsolete. 12 We must develop new products as well as enhancements and new features to existing products to remain competitive. If we fail to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, we may lose market share. The markets for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our products typically constitute a critical portion of our customers’ data centers. In recent years the capacity of transactions in such data centers has been steadily increasing. Due to such increases in capacity and in order to remain competitive in our industry, we must address the increased needs of our customers by developing more powerful platforms for our products. Additionally, as the applications aspect of our customers’ data centers continue to evolve, our customers require advancements in our applications in order to support their growing needs. In order to meet this challenge and rema in competitive in the market, we must introduce new enhancements to our existing product lines to support these growing data centers. Accordingly, our future success will generally depend to a substantial extent on our ability to: · invest significantly in research and development; · develop, introduce and support new products and enhancements on a timely basis; and · gain and consecutively increase market acceptance of our products. We are currently developing new products and enhancements to our existing products. Our development of new products and enhancement of current products is undertaken in an effort to remain competitive in our market, and our potential failure to make further product developments or enhancements may result in a decrease in our revenues in the long run. In addition, in order to remain competitive in our industry, we must invest in research and development. We can give no assurances that continued investment and higher costs of research and development will ultimately result in maintaining or increasing our market share. If our research and development expenses go up without a corresponding increase in our revenues, it would be detrimental to our operating results. We may not be able to successfully complete the deve lopment and market introduction of new products or product enhancements. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, or if we fail to gain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. During 2009, we invested in, and plan to continue to invest in 2010 in developing or when appropriate, acquiring, capabilities to advance our APSolute product family and market vision for business-smart networking. As part of such investments, we acquired Covelight Systems, Inc., or Covelight, in April 2007 for their web channel intelligence technology. Based on this technology we have launched new products (Virtual Director™ and vAdapter™) for the virtualized data center environments. In addition, in 2009 we completed the Alteon Acquisition and purchased Nortel's application delivery switches. Within eight months of the Alteon Acquisition we launched the Alteon 5412 switch, the first Alteon switch addressing the current throughput needs of large data-centers supporting up to 20Gbps of throughput. At the time of the Alteon Acquisition, we also announced that we would support the Alteon Series 2 and 3 application switches for five years. We have allocated development manpower to deliver ongoing software maintenance for our existing Alteon customers, having already released several software versions in 2009 to address customers' needs and enhance existing Alteon product line functionality. These investments are part of our positioning initiative branded as “business-smart networking”. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling our next generation Application Delivery and Network Security solutions, or that we will be able to grow revenues to justify our investments. 13 We may make acquisitions or pursue mergers that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we may invest in or acquire other businesses, technologies or assets, or we may enter into joint ventures or other strategic relationships with third parties. For example, in the last five years we acquired the businesses of V-Secure Technologies Inc., or V-secure, Covelight and, in March 2009, the “Alteon” product line of Nortel. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume liabilities, incur acquisition related costs, incur amortization expenses related to intangible assets or realize large write-offs based on management decision that such assets will no longer be used or will be phased out. In addition, the future valuation of these acquisitions may decrease from the market price paid by us, which may result in the impairment of the relevant assets. For example, during 2008 we had an impairment charge of $2.0 million in connection with intangible assets acquired as a result of the Covelight acquisition. Moreover, our operation of any acquired or merged businesses, technologies or assets could involve numerous risks, including: · Post-merger integration problems resulting from the combination of any acquired operations with our own operations or from the combination of two or more operations into a new merged entity; · Diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · Substantial expenditures, which could divert funds from other corporate uses; · Entering markets in which we have little or no experience; and · Loss of key employees of the acquired operations. We cannot be certain that our recent acquisitions or any future acquisition or merger will be successful. If the operation of the business of any recent or future acquisitions or mergers disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Furthermore, even if we successfully integrate the acquired business with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, our pursuit of potential acquisitions, including the Alteon Acquisition, may divert our management’s attention from our core business and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations, whether or not such transactions are consummated. We have a limited order backlog. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue may have a negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our earnings will decrease. We depend upon independent distributors to sell our products to customers. If our distributors do not succeed in selling our products, our revenues will suffer. We sell our products primarily to independent distributors, including value added resellers, original equipment manufacturers and systems integrators. These distributors resell our products to the ultimate customers. We currently have several dozen active independent distributors and resellers that sell our products. We are highly dependent upon our distributors’ active marketing and sales efforts. Our distribution agreements generally are non-exclusive, one-year agreements with no obligation on the part of our distributors to renew the agreements. Typically, our distribution agreements do not strictly prevent our distributors from selling products of other companies, including products that may compete with our products, and do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. As a result, o ur distributors may give higher priority to products of other companies or to their own products, thus reducing or discontinuing their efforts to sell our products. We may not be able to maintain our existing distribution relationships. If our distributors terminate their relationships with us, we may not be successful in replacing them. In addition, we may need to develop new distribution channels for new products and we may not succeed in doing so. Any changes in our distribution channels, or our inability to establish distribution channels for new products, will impair our ability to sell our products and result in the loss of revenues. 14 Our products generally have long sales cycles, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to the business of our customers. As a result, our pre-sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new equipment. The sales cycles of our products to new customers can last as long as twelve months from initial presentation to sale. This delays the time in which we recognize revenue, and results in our having to invest significant resources in marketing and sales. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered in a short sales cycle, including our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews and processes prior to purchase. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of our customers’ procurement decisions. Furthermore, customers may defer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors. These factors complicate our planning processes and reduce the predictability of our earnings. We must manage our anticipated growth effectively in order to maintain and increase profitability. We have actively expanded our operations in the past and may continue to expand them in the future in order to gain market share in the evolving market for Application Delivery and Network Security solutions. This expansion has required, and may continue to require, managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will continue to expand, or that we will be able to offer and expand our operations successfully. If we are unable to manage our expanding operations effectively, our revenues may not increase, our cost of operations may rise and we may not be profitable. As we grow we may need new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls. For example, at the beginning of 2007, we started implementing a company-wide Oracle ERP system, with a substantial investment of resources, in order to increase the efficiencies of our operations in the fields of finance, operations, customer support and order management. The transition to new systems, procedures or controls, as well as any delay in transitioning to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may seriously harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Our international sales may expose us to additional risks We currently offer our products in over 40 countries in addition to the United States. In fiscal years 2008 and 2009 our sales outside the Americas represented approximately 75% and 73%, respectively, of our total sales. Our international business activity involves varying degrees of risk and uncertainty inherent in doing business in so many different jurisdictions. Such risks, among others, may include: the possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations, including unexpected changes of interpretations thereof; partial or total expropriation; export duties and quotas; local tax exposure; insurrection or war; and differences in business practices. For example, we are required to comply with European Union Directives with respect to product quality assurance standards and environmental standards. In 2006, we were required to modify certain of our products in order to comply with Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “RoHs Directive”), which requires products sold in Europe to meet certain design specifications. We incurred costs and expenses and were required to spend management time and resources in the redesign of our products to meet the RoHs Directive. We are currently in compliance with the RoHs Directive. Currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are impacted by exchange rates and fluctuations thereof in a number of ways, including: · A large portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are paid in New Israel Shekels (“NIS”), whereas most of our revenues are generated in dollars and partially in Euros. We witnessed a weakening of the NIS against the dollar during most of 2009, which decreased the dollar value of our expenses in Israel during 2009. Should the NIS increase its strength in comparison to the dollar, the dollar value of these expenses will increase, and our results of operations will be adversely affected. 15 · A portion of our international sales are denominated in currencies other than dollars, such as the Euro, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. · We incur expenses in several other currencies in connection with our operations in Europe and Asia-Pacific. The devaluation of the dollar relative to such local currencies causes our operational expenses to increase. · The majority of our international sales are denominated in dollars. Accordingly, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the dollar could cause customers to decrease orders or default on payment, which could harm our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified sales, technical and customer support personnel. As we grow, we may need to increase our research and development, sales and marketing, and support staff. Our products require a sophisticated marketing and sales effort targeted at several levels within a prospective customer’s organization. Accordingly, we need highly-trained sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for qualified sales personnel, as well as technical and customer support personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to support our research and development and sales and marketing efforts. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified personnel. We are dependent on Roy Zisapel, our President and Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Roy Zisapel, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have employment contracts with our senior management and key personnel, we do not carry life insurance on our senior management or key personnel. Any loss of the services of Roy Zisapel, other members of senior management or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. Undetected defects and errors may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. Our products have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released, due to defects or errors we fail to detect, including in components supplied by third parties. These defects or errors may be found after the commencement of commercial shipments. In addition, our customers integrate our products into their networks with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the product that has caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these defects or errors, we will then need to divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address the detection and correction of these errors and defects. In the past, we have not incurred signifi cant warranty or repair costs, nor have we been subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors or defects nor experienced any material lags or delays as a result thereof. However, we cannot assure you that we will not incur these costs or liabilities or experience these lags or delays in the future. Any insurance policies that we may have may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. Moreover, the occurrence of errors and defects, whether caused by our products or the components supplied by another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and injure our reputation, thus impairing the market acceptance of our products. 16 We rely on third-party assembly and manufacturing vendors to provide our finished products. If such vendors are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of the products, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand, or may have a delay in fulfilling orders. We rely on USR Technologies and Electronics (2003) Ltd. (“USR”) to supply us with Radware's legacy products. In 2010, we have also started manufacturing small quantities of the Alteon platform with USR. In addition, we rely on Nexcom International Co. Ltd. (“Nexcom”), to provide us with our new OnDemand Switch platforms. We have also executed an agreement with Sanmina SCI Corporation ("Sanmina") for the production of our Alteon product line. In 2009, we used USR, Sanmina and Nexcom to manufacture our products, purchasing approximately 24%, 15% (including indirect purchases through Nortel as per our agreement with Nortel and Sanmina) and 61% of our products, respectively, from each of those manufacturers. If we are unable to continue to acquire those products from those manufacturers on acceptable ter ms, or should any of these suppliers cease to supply us with such products for any reason, we may not be able to identify and integrate an alternative source of supply in a timely fashion or at the same costs. Any transition to one or more alternate suppliers would likely result in delays, operational problems and increased costs, and may limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on time for such transition period. A shortage of components or manufacturing capacity could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders or increase our manufacturing costs Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We may experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts, especially if the economy grows. If there is growth in the economy, such growth is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriate our technologies and trademarks for their own businesses. Our success depends upon the protection of our proprietary software installed in our products, our trade secrets and our trademarks. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademark and patent law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, distributors and others. In the United States and several other countries, we have registered (or acquired through our acquisitions) trademarks. In addition, we have registered patents in the United States and we also have pending patent applications and provisional patents in connec tion with several features used in our products. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Effective trademark, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer, or intend to offer, our products. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could devalue our proprietary content and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 17 Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. As a result we may incur costs defending ourselves or settling lawsuits even if we believe we do not infringe on the rights of such third parties. For example, in 2003 F-5 filed a patent infringement case against us, which was thereafter settled. Our non-competition agreements with our employees may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions. If any of these employees leaves our Company and joins a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. We currently have non-competition agreements with most of our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, in the event they cease to work for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a limited period after termination of employment. The laws of the U.S., Israel and other countries in which we have employees, may limit or prohibit our ability to enforce these non-competition agreements, or may allow us to enforce them only to a limited extent. In the event that we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, competitors that employ our former employees could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. Some of our deposits and other investments may be in excess of insured limits and are not insured in other jurisdictions. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term bank deposits are invested in banks in the United States and in Israel. The Israeli bank deposits are not insured, while the deposits made in the United States are in excess of insured limits and are not otherwise insured. If one or more of these financial institutions were to become insolvent, the loss of these investments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are subject to certain tax audits, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our business in various countries, and accordingly attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to optimize our tax payments based on the laws in the countries in which we operate. This can cause disputes between us and various tax authorities in different parts of the world. In particular, the Israeli Tax Authority (the “ITA”) is currently examining our income tax returns for the years 2004-2006. The ITA has issued a preliminary assessment under which it demanded the payment of additional taxes in the aggregate amount of NIS 39.5 million (equating to approximately $10.7 million) with respect to these years, including interest as of the assessment date. The Company appealed such assessment. Following the Company's appeal, the ITA has one year to perform re-examination with a new team. There can be no assurance that the ITA will accept the Company's positions on the matters raised and an order may be issued. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Three shareholders may exert significant influence in the election of our directors and over the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As of April 10, 2010, Yehuda Zisapel, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned 16.9% of our ordinary shares outstanding and Yehuda Zisapel’s son, Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer, President and director, beneficially owned approximately 4.6% of our ordinary shares outstanding (see “Item 6E – Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Share Ownership”). Additionally, Yehuda Zisapel’s brother, Zohar Zisapel, beneficially owns 6.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares (See “Item 7A – Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders”). As a result, these shareholders, who do not have a voting agreement, may exert significant influence in the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval, such as the election or r emoval of our directors and the approval or rejection of a merger and similar corporate transactions. 18 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the fair market value of our assets, averaged quarterly over our taxable year, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are classified as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences, including having gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to such sales proceeds, and to certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. For our 2009 taxable year, the average percentage of our passive assets to the fair market value of our total assets was slightly below 50%. Therefore, we believe that we should not be classified as a PFIC for 2009. However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will not challenge this treatment and it is possible that the IRS will attempt to treat us as a PFIC for 2009 and possibly prior taxable years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income and assets, and the future price of our ordinary shares which are all relevant to this determination of whether we are classified as a PFIC. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2010 or in subsequent taxable years. U.S. shar eholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. For a more detailed discussion of the rules relating to PFICs and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” We do not intend to pay cash dividends. Our policy is to retain earnings for use in our business and, for this reason, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Our share price has decreased significantly in the past and could continue to fluctuate and further decrease in the future. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price decreased significantly during 2008 and recovered during 2009 and the beginning of 2010. The highest closing price of our shares, as reported by the NASDAQ, during the first quarter of 2010 was $22.31 (previously our share price reached similar levels in mid 2005), compared to the lowest closing price of $4.99 during 2008. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly and further decrease, such as: • Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; • Shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; • Announcements concerning us or our competitors; • The introduction of new products and new industry standards; • Changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • General market conditions and changes in market conditions in our industry; • The general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector); and • Political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel, the United States and worldwide. 19 Risks Related to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected if political, economic and military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between the Palestinians and Israel, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and its subsequent seizure of control of the Gaza strip have created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiit e militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Since June 2007, thousands of missiles have been fired from Gaza at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas in January 2009. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date, however, there is no assurance that this will always be the case in the future. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries or companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as the result of the aforementioned hostilities. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the n ature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. Some of our directors and officers as well as many of our Israeli employees are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel. We cannot assess the potential impact of these obligations on our business. Some of our directors, officers and employees are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, depending upon their age and prior position in the army. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Directors, officers, and key employees falling within these requirements include Roy Zisapel, our Chief Executive Officer and President and Amir Peles, our Chief Technical Officer. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence, for a significant period, of one of more of these officers or other key employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations could harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. The change in the exchange rate between the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar and/or the U.S. dollar against the Euro and other currencies is volatile, and may negatively impact our costs. The majority of our revenues worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars or are dollar-linked. Our sales to most European countries are in Euros. The substantial portion of our expenses is incurred in U.S. dollars, but we incur a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, in other currencies, mainly in Israel - in NIS, in Europe - in Euros and in Asia-Pacific - in several local currencies. If the NIS increases in value relative to the dollar, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, if the Euro increases in value relative to the dollar and sales in Euros do not exceed expenses incurred in Euros, the dollar cost of our operations in Europe will increase and our operating profit will be adversely affec ted. If the Euro decreases in value relative to the dollar and sales in Euros exceed expenses incurred in Euros, our operating profit will be negatively affected as a result of a decrease in the dollar value of our sales. If the dollar decreases in value relative to Chinese, Indian, Australian and/or Japanese currencies, the dollar cost of our operations in Asia-Pacific will increase and our operating profit will be negatively affected. For example, during 2008, the average value of the dollar decreased in relation to the NIS and Euro. As a result, during 2008, we had an increase in expenses which was partially offset by the increase we had in our sales due to the fact that our sales to most European countries are also denominated in Euro. We cannot provide assurances that we will not be materially adversely affected by the rate of inflation in Israel or exchange rate fluctuations in the future. 20 Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received, and may in the future apply for, royalty-bearing or non-royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. The terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. In addition, any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions and penalties of which are the transferability limits described above. The tax benefits we may receive in connection with our approved enterprise program or benefited enterprise program require us to satisfy prescribed conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future. This would increase taxes and decrease our net profit. We have in the past received, and may in the future apply to receive, certain Israeli government grants and may in the future utilize certain tax benefits in Israel by virtue of these programs. To remain eligible for these grants and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making some specified investments in fixed assets and maintaining a certain level of foreign investors’ holdings in our ordinary shares. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be canceled and we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs (with interest and linkage differentials) or pay certain taxes. We cannot guarantee that these programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or at all. If these programs and ta x benefits are ended, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Provisions of Israeli law and of our Articles of Association could delay, prevent, or make difficult, a change of control, thereby depressing the price of our ordinary shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law and of our Articles of Association may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our Company more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. In addition, our Articles of Association provide that our directors, other than external directors, are elected in three staggered classes by the vote of a majority of the shareholders present, in person or by proxy, at a shareholders’ meeting. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the pric e for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control over us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law and the classified structure of our board of directors. For additional information on this topic, see “Item 10B – Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli law.” It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us and/or our officers and directors, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and our directors and officers named herein substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. 21 It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: · the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. 22 