ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in the securities of the Progress Registrants involves risks, including the risks described below, that could affect the Progress Registrants and their businesses, as well as the energy industry in general. Most of the business information as well as the financial and operational data contained in our risk factors are updated periodically in the reports the Progress Registrants file with the SEC. Although the Progress Registrants have discussed current material risks, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and the Progress Registrants cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect their financial performance. Before purchasing securities of the Progress Registrants, you should carefully consider the following risks and the other information in this combined Annual Report, as well as the documents the Progress Registrants file with the SEC from time to time. Each of the risks described below could result in a decrease in the value of the securities of the Progress Registrants and your investment therein. Solely with respect to this Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” unless the context otherwise requires or the disclosure otherwise indicates, references to “we,” “us” or “our” are to each of the individual Progress Registrants and the matters discussed are generally applicable to each Progress Registrant. We are subject to fluid and complex government regulations that may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by multiple federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. We are subject to regulatory oversight with respect to, among other things, rates and service for electric energy sold at retail, retail service territory, siting and construction of facilities, and issuances of securities. In addition, the Utilities are subject to federal regulation with respect to transmission and sales of wholesale power, accounting and certain other matters. We are also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. Laws and regulations frequently change and the ultimate costs of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. We cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in federal administrative policy under the Obama administration. Additionally, we are subject to legislative changes at the state and federal level. We may become subject to new laws and regulations, including but not limited to, in the areas of environmental compliance, renewable energy standards, and energy policy. Such changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generating facilities by the Utilities and their ability to deliver electricity to customers. Operating electric generating facilities and delivery systems involves many risks, including: § operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; § operational limitations imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; § inadequate or unreliable access to transmission and distribution assets; § labor disputes; § interruptions to the supply of fuel and other commodities used in generation; § compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including any subsequent revisions, for the bulk power electric system; § inability to recruit and retain skilled technical workers; § inadequate coal combustion product management (disposal or beneficial use) capabilities; and § catastrophic events such as hurricanes, floods, extreme drought, earthquakes, fires, explosions, terrorist attacks, pandemic health events such as avian influenza or other similar occurrences. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities, including those operated by unaffiliated parties, to deliver the electricity that we sell to the retail and wholesale markets. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered. Although the FERC has issued regulations designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is 25 the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electric power as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets. The Utilities purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the delivery of fuel due to various factors, including but not limited to, transportation delays, labor relations, weather, environmental regulations, and force majeure events, which could limit the Utilities’ ability to operate their facilities. We are subject to compliance with mandatory FERC-approved reliability standards. Failure to comply with the reliability standards could result in the imposition of fines and penalties. If we are unable to meet the reliability standards for the bulk power electric system in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the prospects for construction of a number of new nuclear facilities across the country and an aging skilled workforce, there is increased competition within the energy sector for skilled technical workers for both the construction and operation of nuclear facilities. Our ability to successfully operate our nuclear facilities is dependent upon our continued ability to recruit and retain skilled technical workers. Our coal plants produce coal combustion products. The majority of our plants are nearing full capacity for on-site management of coal combustion products. As a result, we are developing new coal combustion product management plans for our coal plants, which will result in additional capital expenditures for construction of on-site management facilities and/or increased O&M costs for off-site management. The federal government has announced its intention to assess coal ash combustion product management sites and will consider federal regulation. Additionally, rulemakings at the state and federal levels have increased the risks associated with surface wastewater discharges and groundwater impacts, which could result in higher environmental compliance costs. To operate our emission control equipment, we use significant quantities of ammonia and limestone. With mandated compliance deadlines for emission controls, demand for these reagents may increase and result in supply shortages. Decreased operational performance from the Utilities’ generating facilities and delivery systems or increased costs of operating the facilities could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The rates that PEC and PEF may charge retail customers for electric power are subject to the authority of state regulators. Accordingly, our profit margins could be adversely affected if we do not control and prudently manage costs to the satisfaction of regulators. The NCUC, the SCPSC and the FPSC each exercise regulatory authority for review and approval of the retail electric power rates charged within its respective state. The Utilities’ state utility commissions allow recovery of certain costs, including certain prudent compliance and new baseload generation construction costs, through various cost-recovery clauses. A portion of these future costs could potentially be deemed imprudent by the Utilities’ respective commissions. There is also a delay between the timing of when such costs are incurred and when the costs are recovered from the ratepayers. This lag can adversely impact the cash flow of the Utilities and, consequently, our interest expense. With the Utilities’ expected increased expenditures, including but not limited to, environmental compliance, new generation and transmission facilities, compliance with renewable energy standards, and higher commodity prices, we anticipate that the Utilities’ operations will be subject to an even higher level of scrutiny from regulators, policymakers and ratepayers. State regulators may not allow PEC and PEF to increase future retail rates in the manner or to the extent requested or may seek to reduce or freeze retail rates. PEC’s current base rates are subject to traditional cost-based rate regulation. PEF currently operates under a base rate settlement agreement, in which base rates can only be changed under certain circumstances. The costs incurred by PEC and PEF are not generally subject to being fixed or reduced by state regulators. The Utilities’ results of operations could be negatively impacted if the Utilities do not manage their costs effectively. Our ability to maintain our profit margins depends upon demand for electricity in our service territories and management of our costs. 26 Meeting the anticipated demand in our service territories may require, among other things, the construction within the next decade of new gas and/or nuclear generation facilities and modernization of coal generation facilities to increase our generation capability and the siting and construction of associated transmission facilities. We may not be able to obtain required licenses, permits and rights-of-way; successfully and timely complete construction; or recover the cost of such new generation and transmission facilities through our base rates or other recovery mechanisms, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Meeting the anticipated demand within the Utilities’ service territories will require a balanced approach. The three main elements of this balanced solution are: (1) expanding our energy-efficiency programs; (2) investing in the development of alternative energy resources for the future; and (3) operating state-of-the-art plants that produce energy cleanly and efficiently by modernizing existing plants and pursuing options for building new plants and associated transmission facilities. The risks of each of the elements of our balanced solution include, but are not limited to, the following: Energy-Efficiency and New Energy Resources We are actively pursuing expansion of our DSM, energy-efficiency and conservation programs as energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways to reduce energy costs, offset the need for new power plants and protect the environment. Our energy-efficiency programs provide ways for customers to reduce energy use. We are subject to the risk that our customers may not participate in our conservation programs or the forecasted results from these programs may be less than anticipated. This could result in our having to utilize greater levels of renewable energy resources to achieve mandated renewable energy standards, discussed below, and require us to further expand our baseload generation or purchase additional power. We are also subject to the risk that customer participation in these programs may decrease our revenues. With respect to energy efficiency and conservation, the FPSC has initiated a series of public workshops to gather information on how expansions to DSM programs may affect a utility's ability to recover adequate revenues. Although workshops have been held to date, the FPSC has not initiated any formal rulemaking process or policy changes regarding this issue, and it is uncertain what regulatory action may take place in the future. We are actively engaged in a variety of alternative energy projects, including solar, hydrogen, biomass and landfill-gas technologies. We are evaluating the feasibility of producing electricity from hog waste and other plant or animal sources. These alternative energy projects may be determined to not be cost-efficient or cost-effective. Modernization and Construction of Generating Plants We are currently evaluating our options for new generating plants, including gas and nuclear technologies. At this time, no definitive decision has been made regarding the construction of nuclear plants. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully and timely complete the projects to construct new generation facilities or to expand or modernize existing facilities within our projected budgets. These projects are long-term and may involve facility designs that have not been previously constructed or that have not been finalized at the time that project is commenced. Consequently, the projects potentially would be subject to significant cost increases for labor, materials, scope changes and changes in design. Should any such construction, expansion or modernization efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and/or the write-off of our investment in the project or improvement. Furthermore, we have no assurance that costs incurred to construct, expand or modernize generation and associated transmission facilities will be recoverable through our base rates or other recovery mechanisms. 27 The decision to build a new power plant will be based on several factors including: · projected system load growth; · performance of existing generation fleet; · availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; · projections of fuel prices, availability and security; · the regulatory environment; · operational performance of new technologies; · the time required to permit and construct; · environmental impact; · both public and policymaker support; · siting and construction of transmission facilities; · cost and availability of construction materials and labor; · nuclear decommissioning costs, insurance, and costs of security; · ability to obtain financing on favorable terms; and · availability of adequate water supply. The construction of a new power plant and associated expansion of our transmission system will require a significant amount of capital expenditures. We cannot provide certainty that adequate external financing will be available to support the construction. Additionally, borrowings incurred to finance construction may adversely impact our leverage, which could increase our cost of capital. We may pursue joint ventures or similar arrangements with third parties in order to share some of the financing and operational risks associated with new baseload generation facilities, but we cannot be certain we will be able to successfully negotiate any such arrangement. Furthermore, joint ventures or joint ownership arrangements also present risks and uncertainties, including those associated with sharing control over the construction and operation of a facility and reliance on the other party’s financial or operational strength. Future increases in demand for skilled construction labor may result in increased labor costs and labor shortages. This impacts the ability to assure adequate work forces to maintain schedules with high quality construction at predictable costs. Demand for the components required for the manufacturing and construction of power plants has led to increased cost and lead times for materials and equipment. Additionally, there may be opposition to the development and construction of a power plant and/or the siting of associated transmission facilities, which can lead to delays in development or the necessity to abandon a preferred site. While we currently estimate that we will need to increase our baseload capacity, our assumptions regarding future growth and resulting power demand in our service territories may not be realized. Like other parts of the country, our service territories and business have been impacted by the current economic recession with corresponding downturns in the housing and consumer credit markets. PEC has experienced some decline in the rate of residential and commercial sales growth and PEF’s retail customer base contracted in the latter half of 2008. The timing and extent of the recovery of the economy cannot be predicted. Additionally, our customers may undertake further individual energy conservation measures, which could decrease the demand for electricity. We may increase our baseload capacity and have excess capacity if anticipated growth levels are not realized. The resulting excess capacity may exceed the reserve margins established by the NCUC, SCPSC and FPSC to meet our obligation to serve retail customers and, as a result, may not be recoverable in base rates. Nuclear In addition to the risks discussed above, the successful construction of a new nuclear power plant requires the satisfaction of a number of conditions. The conditions include, but are not limited to: the continued operation of the industry’s existing nuclear fleet in a safe, reliable, and cost-effective manner, an efficient and successful licensing process, continued public and policymaker support, and a viable program for managing spent nuclear fuel. We cannot provide certainty that these conditions will exist. As with any major construction undertaking, completion of our proposed nuclear plants could be delayed or prevented, or cost overruns could be incurred, as a result of numerous factors, including shortages of material and labor, labor disputes, weather interferences, difficulties in 28 obtaining necessary licenses or permits, or in meeting license or permit conditions or unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems. While we have not made a final determination on nuclear construction, we have taken steps to keep open the option of building a plant or plants. PEC has filed a COL application with the NRC for two additional reactors at Harris and PEF has filed a COL application with the NRC for two reactors at Levy. For PEC, if we receive approval from the NRC and applicable state agencies, and if the decisions to build are made, a new plant would not be online until at least 2019. For PEF, if we receive approval from the NRC and applicable state agencies, and if the decisions to build are made, safety-related construction activities could begin as early as 2012, and a new plant could be operational in the 2016 to 2018 timeframe. The NRC estimates that it will take approximately three to four years to review and process the COL applications. PEF has entered into an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) agreement for Levy. More than half of the contract price is fixed or firm with agreed upon escalation factors and the remainder of the contract price may fluctuate. Actual payments under the EPC agreement are dependent upon, and may vary significantly based upon the decision to build, regulatory approval schedules, timing and escalation of project costs, and the percentages, if any, of joint ownership. Some specific costs are priced at actual cost, which may be market driven. (See MD&A – Other Matters – Nuclear – Potential New Construction) If as a result of unexpected or uncontrollable events specified in the EPC agreement or specified acts or omissions by us, completion of Levy is delayed or prevented, or Levy cannot achieve operation in accordance with design specifications and performance guarantees, the EPC contractor will not be obligated to pay liquidated damages. Generally, the EPC contractor will not be obligated to pay liquidated damages for events or circumstances that adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations under the construction agreement to the extent that the events or circumstances are beyond its reasonable control and are not caused by its or its subcontractors’ negligence or lack of due diligence and could not have been avoided by the use of its reasonable efforts. In addition, the date for achievement of provisional acceptance and the guaranteed provisional acceptance under the EPC agreement could be subject to adjustment as a result of unexpected or uncontrollable events. For termination without cause, the EPC agreement contains exit provisions with termination fees, which may be significant, that vary based on the termination circumstance. Under the EPC agreement, we are responsible for a number of matters in connection with the construction, completion and start-up of Levy. Our responsibilities include, but are not limited to, obtainment of the COL; performance, oversight and review of certain surveillance and testing functions; and acceptance of turnover of systems from the contractor. While we believe that we have made adequate arrangements to assure timely performance of our responsibilities, we are relying on other parties to enable us to perform our responsibilities under the EPC agreement and we cannot be certain that the other parties will meet their obligations under their contracts. A new nuclear plant may be eligible for the federal production tax credits and risk insurance provided by EPACT. Multiple utilities have announced plans to pursue new nuclear plants. There is no guarantee that any nuclear plant constructed by us would qualify for these incentives. In addition, other COL applicants would be pursuing regulatory approval, permitting and construction at roughly the same time as we would. Consequently, there may be shortages of qualified individuals to design, construct and operate these proposed new nuclear facilities. Gas In addition to the risks discussed above, the successful construction of a gas-fired plant requires access to an adequate supply of natural gas. The gas pipeline infrastructure in eastern and western North Carolina is limited. New pipelines may need to be extended to the new plant locations, which introduces risks associated with a construction project not under our direct control. Natural gas supply limitations lead to the construction of power plants capable of operating on both natural gas and fuel oil as a back-up fuel. Both of these fuels are fossil fuels and emit greenhouse gases, which may be subject to future regulation. The equipment needed for the construction of a natural gas power plant is in demand worldwide, which is negatively impacting the capability of the suppliers to deliver, leading to increased cost and longer lead times for the equipment. 29 Coal In addition to the risks discussed above, the successful modernization of a coal-fired power plant requires the satisfaction of a number of conditions. As discussed further below, these include, but are not limited to, consideration of emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), NOx, SO2 and mercury; an efficient licensing process; and management of coal combustion products such as slag, bottom ash and fly ash. Emission control equipment requires the use of significant amounts of reagents, which may be in high demand with mandated compliance deadlines for emission controls. We are subject to renewable energy standards that may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to renewable energy standards at the state level in North Carolina and Florida. We may be subject to federal level standards in the future. North Carolina’s Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (NC REPS) law establishes minimum standards for the use of energy from specified renewable energy resources or implementation of energy-efficiency measures by the state’s electric utilities beginning with a 3 percent requirement in 2012 and increasing to 12.5 percent in 2021 for regulated public utilities, including PEC. The premium to be paid by electric utilities to comply with the requirements above the cost they would have otherwise incurred to meet consumer demand is to be recovered through an annual clause. The annual amount that can be recovered through the NC REPS clause is capped and once a utility has expended monies equal to the cap, the utility is deemed to have met its obligations under the NC REPS law, regardless of the actual renewables generated or purchased. The law grants the NCUC authority to modify or alter the NC REPS requirements if the NCUC determines it is in the public interest to do so. Florida’s comprehensive energy legislation includes provisions that would, among other things, (1) help enhance the ability to cost-effectively site transmission lines; (2) require the FPSC to develop a renewable portfolio standard that the FPSC would present to the legislature for ratification in 2009; (3) direct the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) to develop rules establishing a cap and trade program to regulate greenhouse gas emissions that the FDEP would present to the legislature no earlier than January 2010 for ratification by the legislature; (4) establish a new Florida Energy and Climate Commission as the principal governmental body to develop energy and climate policy for the State and to make recommendations to the governor and legislature on energy and climate issues; and (5) require the FPSC to analyze utility revenue decoupling and provide a report and recommendation to the governor and legislature by January 1, 2009. The FPSC concluded and recommended to the governor and legislature that no specific revenue decoupling program needs to be, or should be, implemented at this time. In complying with the provisions of the law, PEF would be able to recover its reasonable prudent compliance costs. However, until the rulemaking processes are completed, we cannot predict the costs of complying with the law. On January 12, 2009, the FPSC approved a draft Florida renewable portfolio standard (Florida RPS) rule with a goal of 20 percent renewable energy production by 2020. The FPSC provided the draft Florida RPS rule to the Florida legislature in February 2009. The legislature will review, ratify as is, make revisions, or decide not to have a Florida RPS rule at all. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Additional proposals at the state and federal levels for renewable energy standards could require the Utilities to produce or buy a higher portion of their energy from renewable energy sources. Mandated state and federal standards could result in the use of renewable fuels that are not cost-effective in order to comply with requirements. We are actively engaged in energy-efficiency and conservation programs and a variety of alternative energy projects, including solar, hydrogen, biomass and landfill-gas technologies. We are evaluating the feasibility of producing electricity from hog waste and other plant or animal sources and currently partner with organizations throughout our service territories to support hydrogen, solar and other forms of renewable and alternative energy. We have invested in research for alternative energy sources that might subsequently be determined to not be cost-efficient or cost-effective, thus subjecting us to the risks of further expanding our generation or purchasing additional power on the open market at then-prevailing prices. 30 There are inherent potential risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the shutdown of our nuclear units, which may present potential exposures in excess of our insurance coverage. PEC owns and operates four nuclear units and PEF owns and operates one nuclear unit. In addition, we are exploring the possibility of expanding our nuclear generating capacity with two additional units at both PEC and PEF to meet future expected baseload generation needs. Our nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate capital reserves for decommissioning, limitations on amounts and types of insurance available, potential operational liabilities, and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks. We maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, damages from an accident or business interruption at our nuclear units could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, set license conditions, shut down a nuclear unit, or take some combination of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require us to make substantial capital expenditures at our nuclear plants. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Our nuclear facilities have operating licenses that need to be renewed periodically. We anticipate successful renewal of these licenses. However, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in an extended process with higher licensing or compliance costs. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations, and which may impact or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to numerous environmental regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, and hazardous waste production, handling and disposal. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on existing power plants and compliance plans with regard to new and existing power plants. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, authorizations and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and permits might result in the imposition of fines and penalties by regulatory authorities. We cannot provide assurance that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new environmental regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions from revised or additional regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our ratepayers. In addition, we may be deemed a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body or private party. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all PRPs. While we accrue for probable costs that can be reasonably estimated, not all costs can be reasonably estimated or accrued and actual costs may materially exceed our accruals. Material costs in excess of our accruals could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. There are proposals and ongoing studies at the state (including North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida), federal and international levels to address global climate change that could result in the regulation of CO2 and other greenhouse gases. Any future regulatory actions taken to address global climate change represent a business risk to our operations. Reductions in CO2 emissions to the levels specified by some proposals could be materially adverse to our financial position or results of operations if associated costs of control or limitation cannot be recovered from 31 ratepayers. The cost impact of legislation or regulation to address global climate change would depend on the specific legislation or regulation enacted and cannot be determined at this time. Our compliance with environmental regulations, including those to reduce emissions of NOx, SO2 and mercury from coal-fired power plants, requires significant capital expenditures that impact our financial condition. These costs are eligible for regulatory recovery through either base rates or cost-recovery clauses. These costs could be higher than currently expected and have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The current estimated capital costs associated with compliance with pollution control laws and regulations that we expect to incur are included within MD&A – “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Expenditures” and within MD&A – “Other Matters – Environmental Matters.” The operation of emission control equipment to meet the emission limits will increase our operating costs, net of recovery of costs through cost-recovery clauses, and reduce the generating capacity of our coal-fired plants. O&M expenses will significantly increase due to the additional personnel, materials and general maintenance associated with the equipment. Operation of the emission control equipment will require the procurement of significant quantities of reagents, such as limestone and ammonia. Future increases in demand for these items from other utility companies operating similar equipment could increase our costs associated with operating the equipment. The operation of emission control equipment may result in development of collateral issues that require further remedial actions, resulting in additional expenditures and operating costs. See Note 21 for additional discussion of environmental matters. Because weather conditions directly influence the demand for, our ability to provide, and the cost of providing electricity, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and can be negatively affected by changes in weather conditions and severe weather. Weather conditions in our service territories directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities necessary to provide electricity to our customers. As a result, our future overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions were mild. While we believe that the Utilities’ markets complement each other during normal seasonal fluctuations, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Hydroelectric generating plants represent a small portion of PEC’s generation capacity. PEF has no hydroelectric generating plants. Sustained severe drought conditions could impact operations at our fossil and nuclear plants as these facilities use water for cooling purposes and in the operation of environmental compliance equipment. Furthermore, destruction caused by severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, snow and ice storms, can result in lost operating revenues due to outages; property damage, including downed transmission and distribution lines; and additional and unexpected expenses to mitigate storm damage. Our ability to recover significant costs resulting from severe weather events is subject to regulatory oversight and the timing and amount of any such recovery is uncertain and may impact our financial conditions. We are subject to incurring significant costs resulting from damage sustained during severe weather events. While the Utilities have historically been granted regulatory approval to recover or defer the majority of significant storm costs incurred, the Utilities’ storm cost-recovery petitions may not always be granted or may not be granted in a timely manner. If we cannot recover costs associated with future severe weather events in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover our actual costs, our financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Under a regulatory order, PEF maintains a storm damage reserve account for major storms. In the event future storms cause the reserve to be depleted, PEF can petition the FPSC for implementation of an interim retail surcharge of at least 80 percent and up to 100 percent of the claimed deficiency of its storm reserve. The FPSC has the right to review PEF’s storm costs for prudence. Storm reserve costs attributable to PEF’s wholesale customers may be amortized consistent with recovery of such amounts in wholesale rates, albeit at a specified amount per year, which could result in an extended recovery period. The wholesale transmission portion of the storm reserve will be recovered through the OATT tariff that began in January 2008 and will continue for approximately five years. 32 PEC does not maintain a storm damage reserve account and does not have an ongoing regulatory mechanism to recover storm costs. PEC has previously sought and received permission from the NCUC and the SCPSC to defer storm expenses and amortize them over five-year periods. Our revenues, operating results and financial condition are impacted by customer growth in our service territories and may fluctuate with the economy and its corresponding impact on our customers as well as the demand and competitive state of the wholesale market. Our revenues, operating results and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage. Customer growth can be impacted by population growth as well as by economic factors, including but not limited to, job growth and housing market trends. The Utilities are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. As our service territories experience economic downturns, residential customer consumption patterns may change and our revenues may be negatively impacted. Additionally, our customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income or individual energy conservation efforts. If our commercial and industrial customers experience economic downturns, their consumption of electricity may decline and our revenues can be negatively impacted. Like other parts of the country, our service territories and business have been impacted by the current economic recession with corresponding downturns in the housing and consumer credit markets. PEC has experienced some decline in the rate of residential and commercial sales growth and PEF’s retail customer growth has contracted. We have experienced declining sales to commercial and industrial customers due to the economic recession. The timing and extent of the recovery of the economy cannot be predicted. Additionally, our customers may undertake further individual energy conservation measures, which could decrease the demand for electricity. Wholesale revenues fluctuate with regional demand, fuel prices and contracted capacity. Our wholesale profitability is dependent upon our ability to renew or replace expiring wholesale contracts on favorable terms and market conditions. Fluctuations in commodity prices may adversely affect various aspects of the Utilities’ operations as well as the Utilities’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to the effects of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, coal, fuel oil, electricity and other energy-related commodities, including emission allowances, as a result of our ownership of energy-related assets. We have hedging strategies in place to mitigate fluctuations in commodity supply prices, but to the extent that we do not cover our entire exposure to commodity price fluctuations, or our hedging procedures do not work as planned, there can be no assurances that our financial performance will not be negatively impacted by price fluctuations. Additionally, we are exposed to risk that our counterparties will not be able to perform their obligations. Should our counterparties fail to perform, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such event, we might incur losses in addition to the amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Certain of our hedge agreements may result in the receipt of, or posting of, derivative collateral with our counterparties, depending on the daily derivative position. Fluctuations in commodity prices that lead to our return of collateral received and/or our posting of collateral with our counterparties negatively impact our liquidity. We continually monitor our derivative positions in relation to market price activity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from, among other items: § weather conditions; § seasonality; § power usage; § illiquid markets; § transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; § availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; § demand for energy commodities; § natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal production levels; § natural disasters, wars, terrorism, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and § federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. 33 In addition, we anticipate significant capital expenditures for environmental compliance and baseload generation. The completion of these projects within established budgets is contingent upon many variables including the securing of labor and materials at estimated costs. The demand and prices for labor and materials are subject to volatility and may increase in the future. We are subject to the risk that cost overages may not be recoverable from ratepayers and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely impacted. Prices for emission allowance credits fluctuate. While allowances are eligible for annual recovery in PEF’s jurisdictions in Florida and PEC’s in South Carolina, no such annual recovery exists in North Carolina for PEC. Future changes in the price of allowances could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and PEC and consequently, on our results of operations and cash flows. As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, the Parent is dependent on upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries, primarily the Utilities; its commercial paper and bank facilities; and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets. The Parent is a holding company and as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own. The Parent’s ability to meet its financial obligations associated with the debt service obligations on its debt and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily the Utilities; the ability of its subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds due the Parent; the Parent’s bank facility; and/or the Parent’s ability to access the short-term and long-term debt and equity capital markets. Prior to funding the Parent, its subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their respective debt service, preferred dividends and obligations to trade creditors. Additionally, the Utilities could retain their free cash flow to fund their capital expenditures in lieu of receiving equity contributions from the Parent. Should the Utilities not be able to pay dividends or repay funds due to the Parent or if the Parent cannot access the commercial paper market, its bank facilities or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, the Parent’s ability to pay interest and dividends would be restricted. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets on favorable terms. Limits on our access to capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we would otherwise rely on for future growth. Our cash requirements are driven by the capital-intensive nature of our Utilities. In addition to operating cash flows, we rely heavily on commercial paper, long-term debt and equity. If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy will be adversely affected. In 2008, extreme market turmoil caused the credit markets to tighten. However, we believe that we will continue to have sufficient access to these financial markets based upon our current credit ratings. Further market disruptions or a downgrade of our credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing and may adversely affect our ability to access the financial markets. If we cannot fund our expected capital expenditures and debt maturities through normal operations or by accessing capital markets, our business plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely impacted. See discussion of our expected capital expenditures in MD&A – “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Expenditures”. We issue commercial paper to meet short-term liquidity needs. When financial and economic conditions result in tightened short-term credit markets coupled with corresponding volatility in commercial paper durations and interest rates, we evaluate other options for meeting our short-term liquidity needs, which may include borrowing from our revolving credit agreements (RCAs), issuing short-term floating rate notes, issuing long-term debt and/or issuing equity. These alternative sources of liquidity may not have comparable favorable terms and thus, may impact adversely our business plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in our leverage could adversely affect our competitive position, business planning and flexibility, financial condition, ability to service our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock, and ability to access capital on favorable terms. As discussed above and in Note 11, we rely heavily on our commercial paper and long-term debt. As described in Note 11, our credit agreements contain certain provisions and impose various limitations that could impact our liquidity, such as cross-default provisions and defined maximum total debt to total capital (leverage) ratios. Under 34 these revolving credit facilities, indebtedness includes certain letters of credit and guarantees which are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As described in MD&A – “Strategy” and MD&A – “Future Liquidity and Capital Resources,” we are anticipating extensive capital needs for new generation, transmission and distribution facilities, and environmental compliance expenditures. Funding these capital needs could increase our leverage and present numerous risks including those addressed below. In the event our leverage increases such that we approach the permitted ratios, our access to capital and additional liquidity could decrease. A limitation in our liquidity could have a material adverse impact on our business strategy and our ongoing financing needs. Additionally, a significant increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: § increasing the cost of future debt financing; § impacting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock at the current rate; § making it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing financial obligations; § limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; § increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; § requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt repayment thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; § limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; § requiring the issuance of additional equity; § placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt; and § causing a downgrade in our credit ratings. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our floating rate debt, and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Any reduction in our credit ratings below investment grade would likely increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to additional capital and require posting of collateral, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the long-term target credit ratings for the Parent and the Utilities are above the minimum investment grade rating, we cannot provide certainty that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Our debt indentures and credit agreements do not contain any “ratings triggers,” which would cause the acceleration of interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. Any downgrade could increase our borrowing costs and may adversely affect our access to capital, which could negatively impact our financial results and business plans. We note that the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities or those of PEC or PEF and that each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission the Utilities’ nuclear plants and under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected rates of return. Although a number of factors impact our funding requirements, a decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission the Utilities’ nuclear plants and under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefit plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or 35 changes in life expectancy assumptions. If we are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, our results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. See further discussion of our nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets in Notes 4D, 13 and 16 and in MD&A – “Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Our ability to fully utilize tax credits generated under Section 29/45K may be limited. This risk is not applicable to PEC and PEF. In accordance with the provisions of Section 29/45K, we have generated tax credits based on the content and quantity of synthetic fuels produced and sold to unrelated parties. This tax credit program expired at the end of 2007. The timing of the utilization of the tax credits is dependent upon our taxable income, which can be impacted by a number of factors. Additionally, in the normal course of business, our tax returns are audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If our tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be significant additional tax liabilities and associated interest for previously recognized tax credits, which could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. Although we are unaware of any currently proposed legislation or new IRS regulations or interpretations impacting previously recorded synthetic fuels tax credits, the value of credits generated could be unfavorably impacted by such legislation or IRS regulations and interpretations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 36 ITEM 