Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Performance. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we and our clients are affected by global economic conditions. The following section discusses many of these risks and uncertainties, but is not intended to be all-inclusive. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is vulnerable to fluctuations in general economic conditions. Our business tends to be adversely affected by slow or depressed business conditions in the market as a whole. Many of our clients treat all or a portion of their market research expenditures as discretionary. As global macroeconomic conditions decline and our clients seek to control variable costs, new bookings tend to slow, existing bookings become increasingly vulnerable to subsequent cancellations and delays, and our sales backlog may convert to revenue more slowly than it has historically. Any of the above factors may result in a material adverse impact to our growth, revenues, and earnings. 10 Table of Contents Failure to maintain our brand reputation and recognition could impair our ability to remain competitive. We believe that maintaining our good brand reputation and recognition is critical to attracting and expanding our current client base as well as attracting and retaining qualified employees. If our reputation and name are damaged through, among others, our participation in surveys involving controversial topics or if the results of our surveys are inaccurate or are misused or used out of context by one of our clients, we may become less competitive or lose market share. If we are unable to maintain adequate capacity and demographic composition of our existing online panel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to maintain sufficient capacity of our online panel and its specialty sub-panels. Our ability to do this may be harmed if we lose panel capacity or are unable to attract and maintain an adequate number of replacement panelists and specialty sub-panel members. There are currently no industry or other benchmarks for determining the optimal size and composition of an online panel. Among other factors, panelist response rates vary with differing survey content, and the frequency with which panelists are willing to respond to survey invitations is variable. We constantly reassess our panel size and demographics as survey requests are made and, based upon availability of existing panelists to fulfill project requests, determine our need to recruit additional panelists. We are not always able to accommodate client requests to survey low-incidence, limited populations with specific demographic characteristics. If our need to recruit panelists or specialty sub-panel members increases significantly, our operating costs will rise. Further, our business will be adversely affected if we do not achieve sufficient response rates with our existing panelists or our panel narrows and we are unable to spend the funds necessary to recruit additional panelists. We face competitive pressures within our industry and must continuously replace completed work with new projects. The market research industry includes many competitors, some of which are much larger than we are, have a greater global presence, and/or have specialized products and services we do not offer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing, and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of our services, timely delivery of information, customer service, and the ability to offer products and services to meet changing market needs or prices. No one client accounts for more than 10% of our revenues and a significant portion of our revenues are derived on a project by project basis. We must continuously replace completed work with new projects from both existing and new clients, and competitive pressures may make it more difficult for us to do so and to sustain and grow our revenues. Additionally, a portion of our business involves longer-term tracking studies, which are often renewable on an annual basis. Non-renewal of a large tracking study can have an immediate disproportionate impact on our revenues, and we may have a lag time in replacing the non-renewed tracking study or adjusting our cost structure to reflect the effects of the non-renewal. Privacy and data protection laws may restrict our activities and increase our costs. Various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage, and transfer of personally identifiable information both abroad and in the United States. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of products and services or only offer such services or products after making necessary modifications. Failure to comply with these laws and 11 Table of Contents regulations may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, data being blocked from use, and liability under contractual warranties. In addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been increasing. There is also the possibility that the scope of existing privacy laws may be expanded. For example, several countries including the United States have regulations that restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. Typically, these regulations target sales activity and do not apply to survey research. If the laws were extended to include survey research, our ability to recruit research participants could be adversely affected. These or future initiatives may adversely affect our ability to generate or assemble data or to develop or market current or future products or services, which could negatively impact our business. Our services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and customers may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services. We store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that contains personally identifiable information about individuals. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability, and our reputation could be damaged. For example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. Any unauthorized disclosure or theft of private information we gather could harm our business. Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our panelists and survey respondents, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If there were an inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information, or client confidential information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the personally identifiable or client confidential information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted and we could be subject to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by panel members or pursuant to the agreements with our customers. In addition, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding the unauthorized disclosure of personal information. Finally, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect could harm our reputation, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain panelists, and have an adverse impact on our business. We must continue to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, sales and client support personnel. Research managers with industry expertise are important to our ability to retain and expand our business. Intense competition for these personnel exists, and we may be unable to attract, integrate or retain the proper number of sufficiently qualified personnel that our business plan assumes. In the past, we have from time to time experienced difficulty hiring and retaining qualified employees. There are few, if any, educational institutions that provide specialized training related to market research. Therefore, 12 Table of Contents employees must be recruited in competition with other industries. In the past, competition for highly skilled employees has resulted in additional costs for recruitment, training, compensation and relocation or the provision of remote access to our facilities. We may continue in the future to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. To the extent that we are unable to hire and retain skilled employees in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. We may require additional cash resources which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We believe that our existing cash balances, projected cash flow from operations, and the borrowing capacity we have under our revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our expected cash requirements for the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to unanticipated business conditions, to repay future indebtedness or to pursue future business opportunities requiring substantial investments of additional capital. If our existing financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we may seek to obtain borrowings or to monetize non-core assets. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the incurrence of indebtedness would result in debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. Further, our revolving line of credit is subject to certain terms and conditions of our credit agreement, including compliance with financial covenants, the details of which are described in Note 11, “Borrowings”, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including general political and economic conditions in each country, changes in market demand as a result of tariffs and other trade barriers, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between U.S. and foreign tax rates and laws, currency exchange fluctuations, problems in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods, issues related to repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, Internet access restrictions, protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions, political instability, and anti-U.S. sentiment or terrorist activity against U.S. interests abroad. We have little or no control over these risks. For example, we have encountered more restrictive privacy laws in connection with our business operations in Europe, which have inhibited the growth of our European online panel. There can be no assurance we can effectively limit these risks, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on services provided by off-shore providers, the disruption of which could adversely impact our business We rely on off-shore providers to provide certain of our programming and data processing services, as well as telephone and online data collection. Political or economic instability in countries where such support services are provided, or a significant increase in the costs of such services, could adversely affect our business. From time to time, laws and regulations are proposed in the jurisdictions where we operate that would restrict or limit the benefits of off-shore operations, the enactment of which could further harm our business. If any of these risks were to be realized and assuming that similar off-shore provider relationships could not be established, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights our competitive position may be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Our intellectual property rights may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. The laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property in such countries against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to liability for publishing or distributing content over the Internet. We may be subject to claims relating to content that is published on or downloaded from our websites. We also may be subject to liability for content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites. For example, as part of our surveys panelists sometimes access, through our websites or linkages to our clients’ or other third parties’ websites, content provided by our clients, such as advertising copy, that may be incomplete or contain inaccuracies. We also recruit panelists to participate in research sponsored and hosted by our clients on their websites, and we cannot necessarily control breaches of privacy policies, warranties, or other terms by those third parties. Additionally, we may be accused of sending bulk unsolicited email and have our email blocked by one or more Internet service providers and, therefore, our online data collection efforts may suffer. Although we carry general and professional liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential liability claims for publishing or distributing content over the Internet, or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any claims of this type, with or without merit, would result in the diversion of our financial resources and management personnel. Any failure in the performance of our technology infrastructure could harm our business. Any system delays or failures, including network, software or hardware failures, that cause an interruption in our ability to communicate with our Internet panel, collect research data, or protect visual materials included in our surveys, could result in reduced revenue, impair our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, earthquake, flooding, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. Also, the redundancy of our systems may not be adequate. We have experienced technical difficulties and downtime of individual components of our systems in the past, and we believe that technical difficulties and downtime may occur from time to time in the future. The impact of technical difficulties and downtime may be severe. We have not fully implemented a formal disaster recovery plan, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures in our systems. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our business may be harmed if we cannot maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market. Variations in our operating results may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly and we may incur losses in any given quarter. Our future results of operations may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Other factors, such as general market conditions and investors’ perceptions of our longer term prospects, also may cause fluctuations in the price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents If our common stock loses its status on The NASDAQ Global Select Market in the future and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, shares of our common stock would likely trade in the over-the-counter market. If our common stock were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is de-listed, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens that may discourage them from affecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity of our common stock. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, liquidity, value and marketability of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors or forward-looking statements we have made, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, some of which are outside our control, including declines in general economic conditions or the budgets of our clients, changes in the demand for market research and polling products and services, currency fluctuations, the timing of client projects, and competition in the industry, and others which are partially within our control, including the amount of new business generated, effective management of the professional services aspects of our business, including utilization and realization rates, the mix of domestic and international business, and the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services. An inability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow may impact our operating and other activities. The potential fluctuations in our operating results could cause period-to-period comparisons of operating results not to be meaningful and may provide an unreliable indication of future operating results. Furthermore, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future or forward-looking statements we have made. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Our stock price may be volatile, and investors may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid. The trading prices of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors, variations in operating results, developments in the industries in which we do business, general economic conditions, general market conditions, changes in the nature and composition of our stockholder base, changes in securities analysts’ recommendations regarding our securities, and our performance relative to securities analysts’ expectations for any quarterly period. Further, even though our stock is quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, our stock has had and may continue to have low trading volume and high volatility. The historically low trading volume of our stock makes it more likely that a significant fluctuation in volume, either up or down, will significantly impact the stock price. Because of the relatively low trading volume of our stock, our stockholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Such volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and applicable law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides for the division of the Board into three classes, eliminates the right of stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting, and provides the Board with the power to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The preferred stock could have voting, dividend, liquidation, and other rights established by the Board that are superior to those of our common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law 15 Table of Contents contains provisions that impose restrictions on stockholder action to acquire our company. The effect of these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could discourage or prevent third parties from seeking to obtain control of us, including transactions in which the holders of common stock might receive a premium for their shares over prevailing market prices. The Board also adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock outstanding as of March 29, 2005, and one right attaches to each share issued thereafter until a specified date. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive upon exercise of each right shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity, having a value equal to the exercise price of the right divided by 50% of the then market price of our common stock. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 