Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains disclosures that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management's assumptions. All statements regarding our expected future financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, dividends, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs or cost savings, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities for existing products or products under development, benefits from new technology, plans and objectives of management for future operations and markets for stock are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, forward-looking statements include statements in which we use words such as "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," or similar expressions. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management's beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove to have been correct and actual results may differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. We do not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements, even if new information, future events or other circumstances make them incorrect or misleading. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements in this document include the following: We may be unsuccessful in pursuing various strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value including a potential sale of a portion or all of the Company. With respect to our strategic alternatives review announcement on January 4, 2005, we are continuing our review and no assurance can be given that any strategic alternative involving a transaction, other than the June 30, 2005 sale of the Heating Systems business, will be pursued or, if a transaction is pursued, that it will be consummated. In addition, the impact, if any, that engaging in a strategic alternatives review process will have on the financial performance or operations of the Company is uncertain. We may be unable to successfully enhance our existing products and develop and market enhanced or new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our growth and future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and market enhanced or new products in a timely and cost effective manner. We may not be successful in developing or marketing enhanced or new products, and the market may not accept our products. The resulting level of sales of any of our enhanced or new products may not justify the costs associated with their development and marketing. In addition, certain new products require greater testing and governmental agency regulatory approvals than our existing product lines. Such testing and approval processes are designed to determine whether a new product is safe and effective. The process of developing data to support product effectiveness claims and/or applications for regulatory approval is costly and may not ultimately prove to be successful. We may not have sufficient capital resources to fund planned product line extensions, new product development, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. We cannot satisfy all of our planned product line extensions, new product development plans, capital expenditure programs and possible acquisitions without additional capital. While we believe that our working capital and general financing requirements for our existing business can be satisfied from the anticipated cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our credit facility, we cannot assure that this will continue to be the case. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within our control, including investor perceptions of us, our business and the industries in which we operate, and general economic and market conditions. We may be unable to successfully raise needed capital and the amount of net proceeds that will be available to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs. Even if we are successful in raising capital, it may not be on favorable terms. Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely basis or to obtain any needed additional financing on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure of our growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to: •develop high quality, lower cost manufacturing capabilities; •pursue product line extensions for existing categories and enhance existing products; •expand into new channels of distribution with existing products; •develop a self-sustaining product development process; and •seek complementary acquisitions and alliances to enhance our market presence. Water Pik Technologies, Inc. 11 We cannot assure you that our strategic objectives will be realized or, if realized, will result in increased revenue, profitability or market presence. Executing our strategy may also place a strain on our production, information systems and other resources. To manage growth effectively, we must maintain a high level of manufacturing quality and efficiency, continue to enhance our operational, financial and management systems, including our database management, inventory control and distribution systems, and expand, train and manage our employee base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our expansion in any one or more of these areas, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Well-financed competitors could attempt to capture our market share. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with domestic and international companies. Among our most significant competitors are larger companies that have greater financial and technical resources than we do. In our Personal Health Care segment, our competitors include companies such as Procter & Gamble Co., which manufactures PUR® and Crest® products; as well as The Gillette Company, recently acquired by Proctor and Gamble Co. and which manufactures Braun® products; The Clorox Company, which manufactures Brita® products; Colgate-Palmolive Company, which manufactures Actibrush®; Salton, Inc., which manufactures Ultrasonex® products; Masco Corporation, which manufactures Delta® products; Fortune Brands, Inc., which manufactures Moen® products; as well as a number of private companies including Homedics and Conair Corporation, which manufactures Pollenex® products. In our Pool Products segment, our competitors include companies such as Pentair Inc., which includes PacFab, Inc.and which manufactures Pentair Pool Products® and Sta-Rite® products; Rheem Manufacturing Company, which manufactures Raypak® products; and Hayward Industries, Inc., which manufactures Hayward® products. Because these companies have greater financial and technical resources than we do, they may be willing to commit significant resources to protect their own market shares or to capture market share from us. As a result, we may need to incur greater costs than previously incurred for trade and consumer promotions and advertising to preserve or improve market share, to introduce and establish new products and line extensions and to enhance existing products. At the same time, we may need to undertake additional production-related cost-cutting measures to enable us to respond to competitors' price reductions and marketing efforts without reducing our margins. We cannot assure that we will be able to make such additional expenditures or implement such cost-cutting measures or that, if made or implemented, they will be effective. We are dependent on certain key customers and the general retail environment and are subject to significant pricing pressures. Our top ten customers, including the effects of acquisitions, accounted for 52 percent and 47 percent of our net sales for the twelve months ended September 30, 2005 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2004, respectively. SCP Pool Corporation ("SCP"), The Home Depot, Inc., and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. were our largest customers, accounting for 25 percent, 5 percent and 4 percent, respectively, of our net sales for the twelve months ended September 30, 2005 and 20 percent, 6 percent and 6 percent, respectively, of our net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. SCP accounted for approximately 12 percent of our accounts receivable as of September 30, 2005. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in, the volume of purchases by top customers such as SCP, The Home Depot or Wal-Mart Stores Inc., or any of our other top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A change in seasonal buying patterns by our top customers or a greater emphasis on inventory management by SCP or other top pool customers could impact their purchases of Jandy® products and have an adverse impact on the business. We are continuing to focus our Pool Products business on a targeted marketing program to convert pool builders to the Jandy® system, our comprehensive line of pool and spa products designed to meet all the equipment needs of our customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to convert additional builders to the Jandy® system or that builders, once converted, will remain as customers in future periods. We also face pricing pressures from our retail trade customers. Because of the highly competitive retail environment, retailers have increasingly sought to reduce inventory levels and obtain pricing concessions from vendors. From time to time, we need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and consumer pressures. We are also subject to the risk that high-volume customers could seek alternative pricing concessions or better trade terms. In our Pool Products business, we offer rebate programs and other sales concessions in order to remain competitive, which may erode our profitability. Our performance also is dependent upon the general health of the retail environment and financial condition of our customers. We sell to a diverse customer base. We grant credit terms in the normal course of business to our customers. We perform on-going credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness, as determined through review of their current credit information. We also monitor collections and payments from customers and 12 Water Pik Technologies, Inc. maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. However, we cannot assure that any of our efforts will protect us from non-payment by or insolvency of our customers. Changes in the retail environment and the financial difficulties of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The level of new pool construction impacts demand for our pool products. Although our expanded product offering allows us further opportunity to participate in the aftermarket business, the majority of product sales in our Pool Products segment are made in support of new pool construction. In recent years, the market conditions have been favorable in the pool construction industry, and our sales reflect that general market favorability. However, economic conditions impacting the level of new pool construction may have a significant impact on the demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions of existing businesses and product lines. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as: •our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; •the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; •our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to be achieved from an acquisition; and •unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business. Our business is highly seasonal which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is highly seasonal, with operating results varying from quarter to quarter. Our Personal Health Care segment has historically experienced higher sales in the quarter ending in December of each fiscal year due to stronger retail demand during the holiday season. Our Pool Products segment has historically experienced higher sales in the June quarters of each fiscal year as customers purchase products in anticipation of the spring and summer months during which the level of pool construction increases. As a result of the seasonality of sales, our Pool Products segment offers incentive programs and extended payment terms to encourage pool product customers to purchase products from September through December, as is consistent with industry practice. This increases the risk that our customers will build-up excess inventory in response to purchase incentives and increase our accounts receivables as we have high outstanding balances for a number of months following these incentive programs. In addition, seasonality increases the risk of having insufficient cash to invest in product development at critical times. Poor weather can also have a material adverse impact on sales of pool products. We are subject to the risks associated with international sales. During the twelve months ended September 30, 2005, international sales accounted for approximately 13.6 percent of our total sales, of which approximately 50.6 percent were sales made in Canada. We anticipate that future international sales will increase and may account for a more significant percentage of our sales. Risks associated with such increased international sales include: •political and economic instability; •export controls; •changes in legal and regulatory requirements; •U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; changes in tax laws and tariffs; •convertibility and transferability of international currencies; and •exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales to international customers and the value of and profits earned on international sales when converted into dollars). We are subject to the risks associated with foreign suppliers. We purchase a significant and growing portion of our Personal Health Care products from foreign suppliers and use foreign suppliers for some Pool Products, components and subassemblies as well. These products are primarily produced by contract manufacturers in China and Malaysia and are shipped on ocean vessels to global distribution locations. Among other risks associated with doing business abroad (see international sales risks above), our use of international suppliers causes increased risk to our business due to: •increases in transportation costs; •new or increased import duties; •transportation delays; •foreign work stoppages; •potential war, terrorism and political unrest; •the need to maintain higher inventory levels at distribution centers in the U.S. to partially offset fluctuations in foreign production and shipping; and •exchange rate fluctuations which could increase the cost of foreign manufactured goods. Product liability claims, product recalls, rising insurance costs and rising warranty costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, product liability claims challenging the safety of our products are periodically asserted against us. While we vigorously defend such claims and the integrity of our products, the cost of defending and resolving claims and the adverse publicity, which could result from such claims, may have a material Water Pik Technologies, Inc. 13 adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the costs associated with defending and resolving our product liability claims, and the overall insurance market in general, has led, from time to time, to an increase in our insurance costs, including our payments of higher premiums and deductibles, which may ultimately affect our ability to obtain insurance coverage and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if the federal Consumer Products Safety Commission or state or local authority requires us to recall or repurchase our products, or if we institute a voluntary recall of our products, the repurchase or recall could be costly to us financially and could damage our reputation. If we were required to remove, or we voluntarily removed our products from the market, our reputation could be tarnished and we might have large quantities of finished products that could not be sold. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, development of new products, which is a key element of our business strategy, creates increased risk of higher warranty claims. There has been an increase in asbestos-related lawsuits against multiple defendant companies, some of which historically may have manufactured or sold products that had asbestos-containing components. Many of these companies have not been historically associated with having asbestos risks. We have been named in a number of such suits. In many of these suits the alleged ties to our products are either unclear or we have been able to demonstrate that the identified product did not contain asbestos. We do not expect to incur any material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits. As part of the sale of Heating Systems, BWC has assumed financial responsibility for all asbestos-related lawsuits pending against us as of June 30, 2005, as well as all other known and unknown liabilities relating to the Heating Systems business, and we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide BWC access to our available insurance and related claims administrative support. However, there is no assurance that we will not be named in asbestos-related lawsuits in the future or that we will continue to be successful in defending asbestos claims. In addition, our historic insurance coverage, including that of our predecessors, may not cover asbestos claims or the defense of such matters, as coverage depends on the year of purported exposure and other factors. Failure to protect our intellectual property could reduce our competitiveness. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business because they protect our investment in valuable research and development incorporated in our patents and goodwill we build up in our trademarks. We rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, copyright, know-how, trade secrets, proprietary information, patent and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that such measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect these intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or the independent development of similar technology by others. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, may be material. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully assert our intellectual property rights or that these rights will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure or our inability to protect our intellectual property rights, a successful intellectual property challenge or infringement proceeding against us, could make us less competitive and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange rules, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 14 Water Pik Technologies, Inc. Other risk factors. There are numerous other factors, many of which are outside of our control, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Such factors include: adverse events such as weather conditions, natural disasters, large scale medical outbreaks, such as SARS or an influenza pandemic, acts of international or domestic terrorism and international, political and military developments which may, among other things, impair distribution of our products and reduce consumer spending on our products; labor disputes, which could increase costs and disrupt production of our products; price increases in commodities such as steel, copper, aluminum, titanium, oil and resin, which would increase our product costs; changing public and consumer tastes, which could result in lower spending on our products; and legal and regulatory developments that could impact how we operate with respect to environmental activities, safety, protection of intellectual property, importing or exporting of products, delays at West Coast ports and other areas. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Water Pik Technologies, Inc. 15 