ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors are important and should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of Aerosonic's business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, or an investment in the Company's common stock. In particular, the Company’s results of operations, revenue, liquidity and capital resources may be impacted materially and unfavorably by a number of risk factors, trends and uncertainties. Set forth below are some of the risk factors, trends and uncertainties which we believe could have a material and unfavorable impact on the Company’s results of operations, revenue, liquidity, capital resources and any investment in the Company. Additional risk factors, trends and uncertainties may be discussed elsewhere within this document. The following list is not exhaustive, and other factors which are not presently apparent to us also may have a material and unfavorable impact on our business or financial results. 8 Risks associated with dependence on the aviation industry The Company’s principal business is in the aviation industry. This industry is primarily affected by the general state of the economy in the commercial sector and defense budgets of the U.S. and foreign governments in the military sector. The Company’s focus in the commercial sector is in the business jet market. In the military sector, the levels of defense spending as well as the status of international conflicts have a direct impact on the Company’s business. While the Company expects increases in homeland security spending to benefit fixed-wing and helicopter aircraft, the Company cannot guarantee that such increased levels of spending will actually occur nor that such increases will be to the benefit of the Company. Although we have worked to offset the potentially negative impact of such factors, the outbreak or escalation of terrorist attacks or international hostilities could cause deteriorat ion in the commercial and business aircraft market. Risks associated with dependence on U.S. government contracts Our dependence on revenue from U.S. government contracts subjects us to a number of risks, including the risk that we may not be successful in bidding for future contracts and the risk that funding for these contracts may be delayed or diverted to other uses. We perform work under a number of contracts with the Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. government. Sales under these contracts as a whole, including sales under contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 48% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2006 and 44% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2005. Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. While the overall U.S. military budget declined in real dollars from the mid-1980s through the early 1990s, as a result of the September 11th terrorist attacks and given the current Middle East and global situation, U.S. defense spending has increased and is expected to increase over the next several years. Increased defense spending does not necessarily correlate to increased business for the Company, because not all the programs in which the Company participates or has current capabilities may be earmarked for increased funding. Most of our U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. government either at its convenience or upon our default. Termination-for-convenience provisions permit only the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to termination. Termination-for-default imposes liability on us for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. A substantial majority of our U.S. Government contracts are fixed price type contracts. A majority of these contracts are for mature products and costs are well established. However, some contracts include costs associated with product development. These types of contracts bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. We, like other U.S. government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. In addition, we have a compliance program designed to uncover issues that may lead to voluntary disclosures to the U.S. government. Generally, claims arising out of these inquiries and voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should a business unit or division of the Company involved in a government contract be charged with violation of law, or should the U.S. government determine that the unit or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that unit or division, and conceivably the Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new U.S. government contracts or government-ap proved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts in defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. If we were to be debarred from U.S. government contracts, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, revenue, liquidity and capital resources. 9 Risks associated with aviation industry regulations The aerospace industry is heavily regulated and failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could reduce our sales, or require us to incur additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The FAA prescribes standards and licensing requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all of our products. Comparable agencies, such as the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority and the Japanese Civil Aviation Board, regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be both expensive and time consuming. From time to time the FAA proposes new regulations. These new regulations generally cause an increase in costs to bring our existing and developmental products into compliance. The challenge to compete against larger well-established companies We compete with numerous established companies. Some of these companies have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources. Our ability to be an effective competitor depends in large part on our success in causing our products to be selected for installation in new aircraft, including next generation aircraft, and in avoiding product obsolescence. Risks associated with rapid technological change and products that are subject to obsolescence as a result thereof Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance. The markets for a number of our products and services are generally characterized by rapid technological development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or services or in market demand for products or services based on a particular technology could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products or services. Risks associated with ongoing capital requirements Although our industry niche is not highly capital intensive, our need to expend resources on research and development to provide our customer base with new and enhanced products as well as to continuously upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities requires us to expend significant amounts annually. If we elect to expand our operations in future periods, whether as a result of organic growth or through strategic acquisitions, our capital needs would increase. Our ability to raise capital to meet our existing and future needs may depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within our control, including investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions. We may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if needed. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or raise additional capital in the future, we may hav e to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or scale back on planned research and development or upgrades, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. 10 Risks related to the Company’s handling and use of hazardous substances and related environmental matters Our operations require the handling and use of hazardous substances, and we are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, the protection of the environment and the use or cleanup of hazardous substances and wastes. From time to time, our operations could result in violations under such environmental laws, including spills or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. We may incur substantial costs or experience interruptions in our operations for actual or alleged violations or compliance requirements arising under environmental laws. Additionally, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties. In the event of a major incident, we could incur material costs or experience interruption in our operations as a result of addressing the incident and implementing measures to prevent such incidents in the fu ture, as well as potential litigation that could arise from such an incident. In addition, we could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental laws. Based on available information, we are aware of only one existing environmental matter, which is discussed below under “Item 7. Managements’ Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Environmental Matters.” We are subject to significant restrictive operational and financial covenants. As noted above and in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company successfully refinanced its long term debt instruments in February 2004. The new facilities contain fewer restrictive financial covenants than the preceding debt instruments, but do contain covenants that restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends and require the Company to obtain consent or a waiver prior to taking certain other corporate actions, including the disposition of assets, mergers and changes in corporate management. Among other things, these covenants may prevent the Company from consummating potential dispositions or acquisitions, and may deter or prevent an acquisition or merger of the Company. We are subject to the risks associated with international sales. During fiscal year 2006, international sales accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues. We anticipate that future international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Risks associated with these sales include: • Political and economic instability; • Export controls; • Changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • Changes in tax laws and tariffs; • Convertibility and transferability of international currencies; and • Exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our products to international customers and therefore reduce our competitive position. Attracting and retaining key personnel is an essential element of our future success Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Recruiting and retaining skilled technical personnel is highly competitive. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Risks associated with terrorism and world conflict United States and global responses to the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats and other global crises increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with the Middle East conflict, terrorism, perceived nuclear, biological and chemical threats and other global crises and responses thereto, may adversely affect the Company. While some of our products that are sold to the U.S. government may experience greater demand as a result of increased defense spending, various responses could realign U.S. government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of our government programs. U.S. government spending could shift to defense programs in which we do participate. The Company has contracts with governments of certain states located in the Middle East. The instability in that region, as well as U.S., local or global responses to potentially controversial policies or actions adopted or taken by such governments, may negatively impact those contracts. The Company has contracts with the government of South Korea. Recent actions and perceived provocations by the government of North Korea have resulted in increased concern regarding the stability of the Korean armistice. Additionally, reports indicate that North Korea may be moving to produce and test nuclear weapons or otherwise provoke the U.S. and international community. Resulting instability on the Korean peninsula, and any U.S., local or global responses to perceived provocations by the government of North Korea, could impact the Company’s contracts with South Korea. While an escalation of hostilities on the Korean peninsula might lead to increased military spending by South Korea, there is no certainty that the Company’s contracts with South Korea would benefit. Additionally, it is possible that any instability in that region could have a negative impact on the Company’s contracts. Risks associated with significant stock price fluctuations The market price of our Common Stock ranged from a high of $8.69 per share to a low of $3.75 per share during the 52 week period ended January 31, 2006. Certain accounting misstatements, resulting restatements, contributing factors that led to the restatements and an SEC investigation discussed in previous SEC filings and in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003 might continue to have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The average daily trading volume in our Common Stock on the American Stock Exchange (“Amex”) for the six month period ended January 31, 2006 was approximately 6,916 shares per day and the daily trading volume in our common stock during the same period ranged from a low of zero shares traded to a high of 49,900 shares traded. Other factors and general market conditions that could affect our stock price are: • Our quarterly operating results and variations therein; • Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; • Changes in our business; • Changes in the market’s perception of our business; • Changes in the businesses, earnings estimates or market perceptions of our competitors or customers; • Changes in the outlook for the aviation industry; • Changes in general market or economic conditions unrelated to our performance; • Changes in the legislative or regulatory environment; • Changes in U.S. defense spending or appropriations; • Increased military or homeland defense activities; • An outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities; • Terrorist attacks; • Sales of significant blocks of our common stock; and • Our ability to successfully renew our line of credit that is set to expire in June 2006. 12 Additionally, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. When a stock’s price continues to fluctuate significantly over a sustained period, the risk of loss, including a total loss, is increased. We do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future We intend to retain our earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. Additionally, covenants in our long-term debt agreements impose significant restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Risks related to the inherent limitations of internal control systems The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and prudent industry practice. However, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 