D. Risk Factors Due to the rapidly evolving market in which we operate, we cannot predict whether we will meet internal or external expectations of future performance. Our primary market is in China, where the operating environment is less predictable and mature than those of developed economies and where the Internet industry is rapidly evolving, with new products, new business models and new companies continually entering the market. In addition, sudden regulatory changes can have a sudden and significant impact on many aspects of our business. We believe our future success depends on our ability to significantly grow our revenues from new and existing products, business models and sales channels. However, market data on our business, especially on emerging products, business models and sales channels, are often limited, unreliable or nonexistent. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in a fast changing market where there are abundant private and public capital to support competing new product developments, new business models and new companies. These risks include our ability to: · offer new and innovative products; · attract advertisers; · attract a larger audience to our network; · react quickly and effectively to regulatory changes; · derive revenue from our users from fee-based and other Internet services, including our social media product “Weibo;” · respond effectively to competitive pressures and address the effects of strategic relationships or corporate combinations among our competitors; · attract buyers for our mobile value-added services (“MVAS”); · maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to build user loyalty; · attract and retain qualified management and employees; · upgrade our technology to support increased traffic and expanded services; · expand the content and services on our network, secure premium content and increase network bandwidth in a cost-effective manner; and · develop a sufficiently large customer and user base and develop monetization models acceptable by the marketplace for our Weibo service, so as to recover the cost for developing and marketing the business and cause it to eventually achieve 5 Table of Contents profitability. Due to the rapidly evolving market in which we operate, our historical year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter trends may not provide a good indication of our future performance. For certain business lines, we have experienced high growth rates in the past and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. For other business lines, we have experienced declining trends. Many online advertising companies in China with varying monetization models and product lines have recently received private and/or public capital funding and are seeking to grow their online advertising revenues and gain market share, often with apparent little regard to profit margins. In the past, we have relied on the growth of our online advertising business to derive profitability, which we have used to fund new initiatives, such as Weibo. Our online advertising business may suffer from price competition from other online advertising companies who seem to be willing to grow their advertising revenues and market shares at low margins or at a loss. We may have to lower our profitability or operate at a loss in order to adequately fund critical initiatives that we believe will create value for our company and strengthen our market position over the long run. Our operating results have in the past fallen below the expectations of industry analysts and investors and may do so again in the future. Our share price may decline significantly as a result of not meeting internal or external expectations of future performance. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance, because our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by various factors, including but not limited to, our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services, content and products by us or our competitors; lack of significant news events in the current period, resulting in lower website traffic; technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; changes in demand for advertising space, new advertising formats or new advertising products from advertisers; seasonality of the advertising market; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; operators’ policies; governmental regulation and potentially sudden changes in policies affecting our businesses; seasonal trends in Internet use; a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust our spending quickly; decreases in earnings from equity investments; impairment of our equity investments; lower interest income resulting from decreased in interest yield and cash balance; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the Internet, wireless, e-commerce, media/advertising industry and the Greater China market. As a result of these and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our quarterly revenue and earnings per share guidance is our best estimate at the time we provide guidance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. We are relying on advertising sales as a significant part of our future revenues, but the online advertising market is subject to many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. The online advertising market is rapidly evolving in China. Many of our current and potential advertisers have limited experience with the Internet as an advertising medium, have not traditionally devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures or other available funds to web-based advertising, and may not find the Internet to be effective for promoting their products and services relative to traditional print and broadcast media. We may not be successful in attracting new advertisers, convincing our current and potential advertisers to increase their budgets for online advertising or securing a significant share of those budgets. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for advertising, our ability to generate increased revenue could be negatively affected. Our ability to generate and maintain significant advertising revenues will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: · the development and retention of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; · the maintenance and enhancement of our brands in a cost-effective manner; · increased competition and potential downward pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on web page space; · changes in government policy that curtail or restrict our online advertising services or content offerings or increase our 6 Table of Contents costs associated with policy compliance; · the acceptance of online advertising as an effective way for advertisers to market their businesses; · advertisers’ preferences for new online advertising formats, products or business models offered by other competitors and our ability to provide similar or competing new formats, products and solutions; · the development of independent and reliable means of verifying levels of online advertising and traffic; and · the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems. In 2011, approximately 86% of our advertising revenues were derived from the automobile, fast-moving consumer goods, Internet and financial services, IT and telecommunication sectors. If there is a downturn in advertising spending, especially in these sectors, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our share price could suffer. Our growth in advertising revenues will also depend on our ability to increase the advertising space on our network and develop new advertising inventory offerings, such as those tied to video content and user-generated content in social media or social networking environments and performance-based inventories. If we fail to increase our advertising space at a sufficient rate or fail to develop new advertising inventory offerings that achieve market acceptance, our growth in advertising revenues could be hampered and our share price may drop significantly. Further, the increasing usage of Internet advertising blocking software may result in a decrease of our advertising revenues as the advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet if Internet advertising blocking software is widely used. Our advertising revenues may also be significantly adversely impacted if we are unable to develop effective advertising offerings for our mobile traffic, as Internet users in China more and more rely on mobile devices, such as smart phones and tablets, to access the Internet. If our social media Weibo fails to achieve success and yield profits, our share performance could suffer significantly and your investment in our shares may be adversely affected. We have not yet established a monetization model for Weibo. Weibo is a form of social media featuring microblogging services and social networking services and, thus, is subject to competition from developers of both types of services and potential new types of online networking services. Monetization has been a challenge for other microblogging services and social networking services, and it could be a challenge for us as well. We cannot guarantee that the monetizing methods adopted by other microblogging services and social networking services will work with Weibo. In our efforts to build scale and increase user base and user stickiness, we have significantly increased and expect to further increase investments in Weibo in areas such as technology, infrastructure and marketing, which have caused our profitability to significantly decline and may result in further declines. In addition, we cannot assure you that the investments we make will result in increased Weibo users and traffic. If our monetization efforts are not successful, then our investments in Weibo could significantly depress our profitability, and if we are unsuccessful in growing Weibo’s user base and traffic, our share performance could be materially adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. The microblogging services and social networking services sector is highly competitive in China. The major Chinese portals, including Tencent Holdings Ltd. (“Tencent”), Sohu.com Inc. (“Sohu”) and NetEase.com Inc. (“Netease”), offer similar products that compete with us for users and traffic, as well as content, talent and marketing resources. In addition, there are many websites that specialize in developing microblogging services and social networking services, including Kaixin001.com, Renren.com, Giant Interactive Group Inc. (“Giant Interactive”) (51.com) and China Mobile (139.com). We may be unable to compete successfully against these competitors or new market entrants, which may adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, government regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our ability to operate Weibo. See “Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from advertising or distributing content that it believes is inappropriate and we may be liable for such content or we may have to stop profiting from such content.” below for further details. Although we attempt to monitor the content posted on Weibo, we may not always be able to effectively control or restrict the content generated or placed on Weibo by our users and the PRC government may increase the level of Internet censorship. On March 31, 2012, we had to disable the comment feature of Weibo for three days to clean up comments related to certain rumors that were posted on our website. If in the future the PRC government authorities decide to restrict the dissemination of information via microblogging services or online postings in general, Weibo could be impaired or even ordered to shut down, which may adversely impact our website traffic, ability to monetize this aspect of our business and our brand equity. 7 Table of Contents Furthermore, we may be subject to claims based on the user-generated content posted on Weibo. See “We may be subject to litigation for user-generated content provided on our websites, which may be time-consuming to defend.” below for more details. We rely on MVAS for a significant portion of our revenues. Our MVAS revenues have experienced an overall decline and may decrease further in the future. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, MVAS revenues accounted for 18%, 22% and 33% of our total net revenues, respectively. Our MVAS revenues declined 3% year over year in 2011 and 28% in 2010, and may further decline in the future. If users do not adopt our MVAS at a sufficient rate, our overall MVAS revenue growth could be negatively affected. Factors that may prevent us from maintaining or growing our MVAS revenues include: · our ability to develop new services that become accepted by the market; · our ability to retain existing customers of our subscription services; · our ability to attract new subscribers in a cost-effective manner; · our ability to provide satisfactory services to our customers; · competitors, including operators, may launch competing or better products than ours; · changes in policy, process and/or system by China Mobile Communications Corporation (“China Mobile”), China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. (“China Unicom”) or other operators, on whom we rely for service delivery, billing and payment collection. Examples include limiting the service offerings and partnerships allowed for each Short Messaging Service (“SMS”) service code; requiring additional notices and customer confirmations in the MVAS ordering process; complicating the product launch approval process; and shifting our products to more costly platforms. In the past, the mobile operators have made sudden changes that have significantly impacted our revenues and may continue to do so in the future; and · changes in government regulations, which could restrict our MVAS offerings, curtail our ability to market our services or change user adoption or usage patterns in a negative way. For example, in August 2007, the Ministry of Information Industry (superseded by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology established in March 2008, both of which are referred to as “MII”) tightened the regulations over direct advertising in China, which reduced the effectiveness of our direct advertising on MVAS and increased the difficulties of new user recruitment. In December 2007, MII unified the dialing codes of each service provider (“SP”), which increased the number of digits a user must input to subscribe to an SP’s MVAS, thereby making the purchasing process more complicated. MII has proposed requiring mobile users, including pre-paid card subscribers, to register their real identity. Implementation of these types of changes has led to in the past and may lead to in the future fewer subscriptions of MVAS and a decrease in new customers. We cannot assure you that our new MVAS offerings will be accepted by the market, in light of evolving and/or unclear policies and regulations, will meet the requirements of operator policies and government regulations upon release, or that we will be able to develop new MVAS that will provide meaningful margin contribution, especially in the current competitive landscape where MVAS providers are willing to accept lower revenue shares to acquire marketing channels and MVAS content and where operators are increasing revenue shares for new MVAS offerings and MVAS offerings using their newer platforms. If revenues from our MVAS services do not grow significantly or generate profits, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. With respect to MVAS, we rely on China Mobile, China Unicom and other operators for marketing, service delivery, billing and payment collection, and we may be negatively affected by changes that they may make suddenly and unilaterally. Our MVAS offerings depend mainly on cooperation arrangements with China Mobile and China Unicom and, to a lesser extent, China Telecommunications Corporation (“China Telecom”). We rely on the operators in the following ways: utilizing their network and gateway to recruit and provide MVAS to subscribers; utilizing their billing systems to charge the fees to our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bills; utilizing their collection services to collect payments from subscribers; and relying on their infrastructure development to further develop new products and services. As of December 31, 2011, we offered our MVAS through 31 8 Table of Contents provincial and local subsidiaries of China Mobile and 12 provincial subsidiaries of China Unicom. As we have limited bargaining power against the operators, we may be required to enter into cooperation agreements on terms that are unfavorable to us. The operators may also unilaterally terminate or amend the agreements at any time. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators choose not to continue the cooperation arrangements with us or if they unilaterally amend the cooperation arrangements with terms significantly unfavorable to us, our MVAS revenues and operating profitability could be materially and negatively affected. In the past, operators have made sudden and unexpected changes in their policies, processes and systems, which have harmed, and may continue to harm, our business. For example: · In April 2007, China Unicom changed its service fee settlement method with service providers from estimated collection to actual collection. As a result of the switch, fee settlement, based on the receipt of billing statement, with China Unicom has taken up to four months, which has negatively impacted our cash flows. In addition, if we are unable to rely on historical confirmation rates from China Unicom as a result of the change in fee settlement method, we may need to defer recognition of such revenues until the billing statements are received. · In July 2007, China Mobile began implementing a score and ranking system that rewards larger, higher growth service providers with fewer user complaints. Receiving a low score or ranking, e.g., as a result of too many complaints filed by our MVAS customers, could result in a negative impact to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. · In August 2007, the MII tightened the regulations over direct advertising in China. This change reduced the effectiveness of our direct advertising on MVAS and increased the difficulties of new user recruitment. We believe it has had and will continue to have a significant negative impact to our MVAS business. · In December 2007, the MII unified the dialing codes of each service provider by adding a four-digit code to each service provider’s product. This complicated the purchasing process of MVAS and reduced the effectiveness of our direct advertising and increased the difficulties of new user recruitment. · In November 2009, China Mobile implemented a series of measures targeted at eliminating offensive or unauthorized content for the WAP product line. As part of this effort, China Mobile has suspended billing customers of Wireless Application Protocol (“WAP”) services since 2009, including those that do not contain offensive or unauthorized content, on behalf of third-party service providers of such services. China Mobile has not yet indicated whether WAP billing will resume and, if so, when and under what conditions. · In December 2010, under MII’s policy directives, China Mobile began requiring a subscription reminder to be sent for monthly MVAS subscriptions after receiving double confirmation of the subscription. Subscribers can cancel MVAS subscriptions by replying to the reminder notice. This has complicated the subscription process and reduced our ability to acquire new monthly subscribers in a cost-effective manner. · In January 2011, China Mobile implemented a series of measures that included limiting the service offerings and partnerships allowed for each SMS service code, preventing the television and radio promotion of certain interactive IVR products and requiring additional notices and customer confirmations in the MVAS ordering process. These measures have had a negative impact to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our mobile operators have made other policy changes in the past and could make further changes at any time, including, but not limited to, requiring us to use the operators’ customer service and/or marketing service and charging for these services; requiring us to migrate our MVAS to an operator’s platform and increase the fees charged for using the operator’s platform; changing their fee structure or billing method in a way that would require us to delay the recognition of MVAS revenues from an accrual basis to when actual payments are received; implementing new billing rules, such as reducing MVAS fees that can be charged to users; disallowing us to bill certain inactive users and limiting the amount of MVAS fees that can be billed; requiring us to absorb end customer bad debts; issuing new rules on how WAP services are ranked on operator browsers, which significantly determines WAP revenues; refusing to pay us for services delivered; limiting the product offerings of SPs by working directly with content providers to launch competing services or giving exclusive rights to certain SPs to offer certain MVAS; complicating our product launch procedures by requiring approval at the provincial level of the operator; and prolonging the product launch review period from monthly to quarterly. Any change in policy, process or system by the operators could result in a material reduction of our MVAS revenues. 9 Table of Contents China Mobile, China Unicom and other operators have in the past increased the fees charged for providing their services and may do so again in the future. If they choose to increase such fees, our gross margin for MVAS and our operating profitability may be negatively impacted. These operators have generally retained a certain percentage of the fees for MVAS we provided to our users via their platform for fee collection. In addition, they charge transmission fees for some products such as SMS and Multimedia Message Service (“MMS”) on a per message basis, and the rates of such transmission fees vary for different products and message volume. For 2011, we received on average 66% and 78% of the amount we charged to our users via the China Mobile platform and the China Unicom platform, respectively, after they deducted the fees for collection and transmission. Our MVAS revenues could be negatively impacted if China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators restrict MVAS to be charged on a monthly subscription basis or disallow us to charge monthly fees for users who do not use our service in a particular month. For 2011, approximately 5 % of our MVAS revenues were derived from monthly subscription products, which mainly consist of SMS and MMS. In the past, China Mobile and China Unicom imposed penalties on MVAS providers for violating certain operating policies relating to MVAS. In some cases, they stopped making payments to certain SPs for severe violations. To date, the accrued penalties we have received have been insignificant in dollar amounts, but it is difficult to determine the specific conduct that might be interpreted as violating such operating policies. Additionally, operators may unilaterally revise their arrangements with us at any time, which could result in us breaching the new terms and being subject to fines. In the future, if China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators impose more severe penalties on us for policy violations, our MVAS revenues and operating results may be negatively impacted. We are potentially subject to liability and penalty for delivering inappropriate content through our MVAS. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination of our IVR service at the end of July 2004 was that we had provided inappropriate content to our mobile subscribers through our IVR service. The definition and interpretation of inappropriate content in many cases are vague and subjective. We are not sure whether operators, including China Mobile and China Unicom, or the Chinese government will find our mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the MVAS relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our MVAS revenues may suffer significantly. A portion of our MVAS revenues is currently estimated based on our internal records of billings and transmissions for the month, adjusted for prior period confirmation rates from operators and prior period discrepancies between internal estimates and confirmed amounts from operators. Historically, there have been no significant true-up adjustments to our estimates. If there was no consistent trend of confirmation rates or if there were continuous significant true-up adjustments to our estimates under the new billing platforms, we will need to rely on the billing statements from the operators to record revenues. Due to the time lag of receiving the billing statements, our MVAS revenues may fluctuate with the collection of billing statements if we were to record our MVAS revenues when we receive the billing statements. For example, if an operator switches payment to SPs from estimated collection from users to actual collection, such policy change may cause us to delay the recognition of these revenues until we receive the actual billings and/or until we have reliable information to make such revenue estimates. For 2011, approximately 9% of our MVAS revenues were estimated at period end. In the past, China Mobile has requested resettlement of billings that were settled in previous periods and on which payments have been made to us. We have had to accrued for such credits to revenues based on a rolling history and the true-ups between the accrued amounts and actual credit memos issued have not been significant. However, there is no guarantee that China Mobile or other operators will not request resettlement of previously received payments. If China Mobile or other operators request resettlement of billings for a previous period at amounts significantly larger than our credit memo accrual based on historical patterns, our operating results, financial position and cash flow may be severely impacted. If China Mobile’s, China Unicom’s or other operators’ systems encounter technical problems, if they refuse to cooperate with us or if they do not provide adequate services, our MVAS offerings may cease or be severely disrupted, which could have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results. The markets for Internet and MVAS services are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and current and new competitors can launch new websites or services at a relatively low cost. Many companies offer Chinese language 10 Table of Contents content and services, including informational and community features, fee-based services, email and e-commerce services in the Greater China market that may be competitive with our offerings. In addition, providers of Chinese language Internet tools and services may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with large, well-established and well-financed Internet, media or other companies. We also face competition from providers of software and other Internet products and services. In addition, we compete with entities that sponsor or maintain high-traffic websites or provide an initial point of entry for Internet users, including, but not limited to, portals, search sites, microblogging, social networking and other online community services, desktop applications and mobile applications. Our competitors include existing or emerging PRC Internet portals as well as vertical websites competing in a specific niche such as automobile, finance and IT information. Our competitors in these areas include Baidu.com, Inc. (“Baidu”), Tencent, Netease, TOM Online, Inc. (“TOM Online”), Sohu, iFeng.com, Hexun, East Money, China Finance Online, PCAuto, Auto Home, Bitauto, Xcar.com. ZOL.com, PCpop.com and PConline. Many of these companies are large, well-capitalized entities that currently offer, and could further develop or acquire, content and services that compete with those that we offer. Companies such as these may have greater financial and technical resources, larger and more active user base, better brand recognition, more developed sales and marketing networks, more customers, stronger government relationships and more extensive operating histories. As a result, such companies may be able to quickly provide competitive services and obtain a significant number of customers. We also compete for advertisers with traditional media companies, such as newspapers, magazines and television networks that have a longer history of operation and greater acceptance among advertisers. Although outdoor media companies more directly compete with traditional media, such as television, they also indirectly compete with us to convert advertisers from traditional media to their own formats. These competitors include Focus Media Holding Limited (“Focus Media”), Air Media Group Inc., Vision China Media Inc. and other China-based private or public outdoor media advertising companies. There is significant competition among MVAS providers. A large number of independent MVAS providers, such as Kongzhong Corporation (“Kongzhong”), Tencent, TOM Online, Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. (“Hurray”), Sohu and Linktone Ltd. (“Linktone”), compete against us. We may be unable to continue to grow our revenues from these services in this competitive environment. In addition, the major operators in China, including China Mobile and China Unicom, have entered the business of content development. Any of our present or future MVAS competitors may offer value-added services or other mobile offerings that provide significant technology, performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us, and therefore achieve greater market acceptance than us. Our other areas of focus for future growth include WAP portal, online video and Web 2.0 services. The main competitors for our WAP portal include Tencent and WAP portals operated by mobile operators such as China Mobile’s Monternet. We also face intense competition from companies offering online video and Web 2.0 services including public companies such as Baidu, Tencent, Netease, Sohu, Renren.com, China Mobile (139.com), Shanda (Ku6, Shanda Literature and Tuita.com), iFeng.com, Youku Inc. (“Youku”), Tudou Holdings Limited (“Tudou”), and Giant Interactive (51.com), as well as private companies such as PPLive, PPStream, Dianping.com, Meilishuo.com, Immomo.com, Kaixin001.com, Tianya.cn, Bokee, Blogbus, Poco, Blogcn, Hexun and Diandian.com. Web 2.0 companies are defined as those that offer tools to: (1) generate traffic through user-generated content, such as microblogging services and social networking services, light blogs, blogs, online video, online music and photo sharing and other online communities; (2) allow users to communicate, such as instant messaging, Walkie Talkie application and email, and/or (3) allow users to personalize individual sites and virtual communities. In addition, we compete with companies who sponsor or maintain high-traffic websites or provide an initial point of entry for Internet users, including, but not limited to, providers of search services, desktop applications, mobile applications and operating systems. Search providers include Internet search companies, such as Baidu, Tencent (Soso), Yahoo! Inc. (“Yahoo!”)/Alibaba, Sohu (Sogou), Microsoft (Bing), Netease (Youdao) and Google, Inc. (“Google”), as well as vertical search companies, such as Youku (video search), Tudou (video search), Gougou (video search), Qunar (travel search) and Kuxun.cn (travel search). Companies that offer desktop applications, such as instant messaging (IM), pinyin, web browsing and application downloading, and mobile applications, such as Walkie Talkie application and mobile browsing, include Tencent, Sohu (Sogou), Qihoo, Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”), Yahoo!/Alibaba (Yahoo Messenger) and UC Mobile Ltd. (UC Browser). Smart phone operating system providers such as Apple Inc. (iOS), Google (Android) and Microsoft (Windows) are also becoming a threat as mobile Internet users are increasingly using the application stores as an initial entry point to various Internet products and services. Online companies who can aggregate significant traffic may have the ability to direct traffic to their other Internet offerings and provide advertising services. We expect that as Internet usage in Greater China increases and the Greater China market becomes more attractive to advertisers and for conducting fee-based services, large global competitors, such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, MySpace, Microsoft (MSN 11 Table of Contents Messenger), Yahoo!, eBay Inc. (“eBay”), Google and America Online Inc. (“AOL”), may increasingly focus their resources on the Greater China market. Some of these global Internet companies may partner with domestic organizations to penetrate the PRC market. Many of our competitors have a longer history of providing these online services, a larger and more active user base and currently offer a greater breadth of products that may be more popular than our online offerings. Many of these companies are focused solely on one area of our business and are able to devote all of their resources to that business line and can more quickly adapt to changing technology and market conditions. These companies may therefore have a competitive advantage over us with respect to these business areas. A number of our current and potential future competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have, may be able to more quickly react to changing consumer requirements and demands, may deliver competitive services at lower prices or with more desirable features and functionalities, may continue to compete even when loss-making and may market more effectively to certain user audiences. Increased competition could result in reduced traffic, loss of market share and revenues and lower profit margins. Our business is highly sensitive to the strength of our brands in the marketplace, and we may not be able to maintain current or attract new users, customers and strategic partners for our products and offerings if we do not continue to increase the strength of our brands and develop new brands successfully in the marketplace. Our operational and financial performance is highly dependent on our strong brands in the marketplace. Such dependency will increase further as the number of Internet and mobile users as well as the number of market entrants in China grows. In order to retain existing and attract new Internet users, advertisers, mobile customers and strategic partners, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand awareness and brand loyalty. Consequently, we will need to grow our revenues at least in the same proportion as any increase in brand spending to maintain our current levels of profitability. There has in the past been various negative press coverage about our company based on untrue or unsubstantiated rumors and, as a result, the price of our ordinary shares has at times been negatively affected. We have in some cases taken affirmative steps to address such coverage. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to diffuse negative press coverage about our company to the satisfaction of our investors, users, advertisers, customers and strategic partners. If we are unable to diffuse negative press coverage about our company, our brands may suffer in the marketplace, our operational and financial performance may be negatively impacted and the price of our ordinary shares may decline. Our financial results could be adversely affected by E-House, Tudou and other equity investments. We reported our ownership in CRIC using the equity method of accounting starting from October 1, 2009 and, as such, our net income was impacted by CRIC’s performance. For 2011, we recorded $2.6 million in income from equity investment in CRIC. CRIC merged into and became a 100% subsidiary of E-House on April 20, 2012 and, as a result, each ordinary share of CRIC held by us was converted into 0.6 ordinary share of E-House, together with the right to receive cash consideration of $1.75. Our earnings from equity investments may decline as a result of the merger of CRIC with E-House, which incurred an operating loss in 2011 from its operations (excluding CRIC’s results). We are currently evaluating the accounting treatment related to the privatization of CRIC. Our future financial results may be adversely affected by the performance of E-House. If E-House’s financial results decline, it will negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, we will not be able to report our quarter and annual results until we have obtained E-House’s results. A delay in E-House’s reporting could adversely affect our reporting schedule and cause the market to react negatively to our share price. E-House’s business (including CRIC’s business) is subject to risks that may be different than those that affect our business. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: · E-House may not be able to successfully execute its strategy of expanding into new geographical markets in China; · E-House may not be able to successfully execute its growth strategy to maintain and enhance its brands and image; · E-House’s business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market of China; · E-House’s business may be materially and adversely affected by government measures aimed at China’s real estate industry; and 12 Table of Contents · a severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect E-House’s business and its financial condition. Further information regarding these and other risks can be found in E-House’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). SINA assumes no obligation to update E-House’s risks factors. We periodically review our equity investments in publicly traded companies, privately held companies and limited partnerships for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired and that such impairment is other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and take a corresponding charge to our consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2011, our equity investments included $155.7 million in privately held companies and limited partnerships, which may not have the resources nor level of controls in place like public companies to timely and accurately provide updates about their company to us. Furthermore, many of our investments are at an early, pre-revenue stage of development, and their impairment may be difficult to assess as market information on Internet-related startups is not readily available. Determination of estimated fair value of these investments require complex and subjective judgments due to their limited financial and operating history, unique business risks and limited public information. Consequently, we may not receive information about our investments on a timely basis to properly account for them. We are unable to control these factors and an impairment charge recognized by us, especially untimely recorded, may adversely impact our financial results and share price. In 2011, we recognized impairment charges of $230.3 million and $50.9 million on our investments in CRIC and MCOX, respectively. In 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $128.6 million on our investment in CRIC. Subsequent to the announcement of a third-party offer to merge with Tudou, the ADSs of Tudou have increased from $15.39 on the last trading day before the announcement of the proposed merger to $34.91 as of April 13, 2012. The merger is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close by the third quarter of 2012. Should the merger not close, our investment in Tudou may be impaired. On the other hand, should the merger of Tudou close and we do not dispose of the ordinary shares of Tudou held by us prior to the closing, our investments in Tudou will be converted into the purchaser’s shares. Under the terms of the definitive agreement for Tudou to combine with Youku in a 100% stock-for-stock transaction, each Class A ordinary share and Class B ordinary share of Tudou issued and outstanding will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive 7.177 Class A ordinary shares of Youku, and each ADS of Tudou will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive 1.595 ADSs of Youku. If we are unable to keep up with the rapid technological changes of the Internet industry, our business may suffer. The Internet industry is experiencing rapid technological changes. For example, with the advances of search engines, Internet users may choose to access information through search engines instead of our web portal and other web properties. With the advent of Web 2.0, the interests and preferences of Internet users may shift to user-generated content, such as microblogging services, social networking services and other online communities. As broadband becomes more accessible, Internet users may demand content in pictorial, audio-rich and video-rich formats. With the development of 2.5G, the issuance of 3G licenses in China and the growing availability of Wi-Fi connections, mobile users may shift from the current predominant text messaging services to newer applications, such as location-based services (“LBS”), Walkie Talkie application, mobile commerce, music, photo and video download sites, applications and sharing platforms, and mobile games. In addition, with the proportion of Internet usage shifting from personal computers to mobile phones and handheld computers in China, mobile operating systems, browsers and application-based platforms may redefine the way Internet companies operate, impacting our competitiveness and hindering our ability to shift our personal-computer-based offerings into the mobile environment. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate, adapt and support new technologies and industry standards. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share, profitability and share price could suffer. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are developing new products and services. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. If our efforts to develop, market and sell new products and services to the market are not successful, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. 13 Table of Contents Our investment in Web 2.0 services, such as social media, online video and WAP portal may not be successful. Web 2.0 services, such as microblogging services and social networking services, light blog, LBS, Walkie Talkie application and other online communities, online video, and WAP portal are currently some of the fastest growing online services in China. We have invested and intend to expand in these areas. For example, we have invested heavily in Web 2.0 services, such as microblogging services with social networking features, online video, light blog, Walkie Talkie application and social game platform. Some of our competitors have entered these markets ahead of us and have achieved significant market positions. Our main competitors in Web 2.0 services and WAP portal include Tencent, Netease, Sohu, Youku, iFeng.com (light blog), Renren.com, China Mobile (Monternet and 139.com), Tudou, Baidu (iQiyi.com), Shanda (Ku6, Shanda Literature and Tuita.com) and Giant Interactive (51.com), and private companies such as PPLive, PPStream, Dianping.com, Meilishuo.com, Immomo.com, Kaixin001.com, Tianya.cn, Bokee, Blogbus, Poco, Blogcn, Hexun and Diandian.com. We have also invested and plan to continue to invest in other technological products and tools, such as building online game and video sharing platforms to complement our existing Internet service offerings. Our competitors in these areas tend to be more specialized in their specific markets and may have access to greater resources, which may give them a competitive advantage over us. In addition, some of our competitors have significantly larger user bases and more established brand names and may be able to effectively leverage their user bases and brand names to provide integrated Internet communication, online games, social networking and other products and services, and therefore increase their respective market shares. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in these markets despite our investment of time and funds to address these markets. If we fail to achieve a significant position in these markets, we could fail to realize our intended returns in these investments. Moreover, our competitors may enjoy increased revenues and profits from an increase in market share in any of these markets, and our results and share price could suffer as a result. More individuals are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet. If users of these devices do not widely adopt versions of our web technology, products or operating systems developed for these devices, our business could be adversely affected. The number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, handheld computers, such as the iPad and other tablets, television and other devices, has increased significantly and the trend is expected to continue. We expect mobile traffic to be a significant contributor to our overall traffic growth. The operating systems, software, resolution, functionality, and memory associated with some alternative devices make the use of our products and services through such devices more difficult and less compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer may have unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. We have limited experience to date in operating versions of our products and services developed or optimized for users of alternative devices, such as iOS and Android devices, or in designing alternative devices. As new devices and new platforms continue to be released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices and we may need to devote significant resources to create, support, and maintain our offerings on such devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, distributors, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business and our share price. New technologies could block our advertisements, desktop and mobile applications, such as Weibo, and may set up technical measures that could limit our traffic growth and new monetization opportunities. Technologies have been developed that can disable the display of our advertisements and that provide tools to users to opt out of our advertising products. Most of our revenues are derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of advertisements on webpages to our users. In addition, our traffic growth is significantly dependent on content viewing via mobile devices, such as smart phones and tablets. Technologies and tools for mobile devices, such as mobile operating systems, mobile Internet browsers and application download stores could set up technical measures to direct Internet traffic or require payment collection on fee-based revenues, which could adversely affect our overall traffic, ability to monetize our services and our share price. Our business and growth could suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel who are in high demand. We depend on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key employees, many of whom are difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Competition for qualified talent in China is intense. Our future success is dependent on our ability to attract a significant number of qualified 14 Table of Contents employees at a fast pace and retain existing key employees. If we are unable to do so, our business and growth, including that of Weibo, may be materially and adversely affected and our share price could suffer. Our need to significantly increase the number of our qualified employees and retain key employees may cause us to materially increase compensation-related costs, including stock-based compensation. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively, which could harm our business. We have expanded rapidly by acquiring companies, entering into joint ventures and forming strategic partnerships. These new businesses, joint ventures and strategic partnerships provide various services, such as MVAS, instant messaging and application development. We anticipate continuous expansion in our business, both through further acquisitions and internal growth. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations as a result of acquisitions and internal growth requires significant management resources that our locally based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. In order to manage the planned growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve and implement operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Further, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with various other websites, Internet and other online service providers and other third parties necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we are not successful in establishing, maintaining and managing our personnel, systems, procedures and controls, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and may result in equity or earnings dilution. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and intend to continue to identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing business. Acquired businesses or assets may not yield the results we expect. In addition, acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the cost of identifying and consummating acquisitions, and integrating the acquired businesses into ours, may be significant, and the integration of acquired businesses may be disruptive to our existing business operations. In addition, we may have to obtain approval from the relevant PRC governmental authorities for the acquisitions and comply with any applicable PRC rules and regulations, which may be costly. The PRC government recently established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by us more time-consuming and complex. For instance, as of September 1, 2011, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”) adopted a national security review rule which requires acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC companies engaged in military-related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security to be subject to security review before consummation of any such acquisition. In the event that our acquisitions are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The PRC Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The PRC Labor Contract Law became effective and was implemented on January 1, 2008. The PRC Labor Contract Law has reinforced the protection for employees who, under the PRC Labor Contract Law, have the right, among others, to have written labor contracts, to enter into labor contracts with no fixed terms under certain circumstances, to receive overtime wages and to terminate or alter terms in labor contracts. Furthermore, the PRC Labor Contract Law establishes additional restrictions and increases the costs involved with dismissing employees. As the PRC Labor Contract Law is relatively new, there remains significant uncertainty as to its interpretation and application by the PRC Government. In the event that we decide to significantly reduce our workforce, the PRC Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to do so in a timely and cost effective manner, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, for employees whose contracts include non-competition terms, the Labor Contract Law requires us to pay monthly compensation after such employment is terminated, which will increase our operating expenses. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets, such as our website. The PRC government heavily regulates the Internet sector, including the legality of foreign investment in this sector, the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet and the licensing and permit requirements for companies in the Internet industry. Because some of the laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet sector are relatively new and evolving, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based on written statutes and prior court decisions have limited precedential value. As a result, in many cases it is difficult to determine what actions or 15 Table of Contents omissions may result in liability. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to the PRC government’s regulation of the Chinese Internet sector include the following: · We only have contractual control over our website in China. We do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services, including computer information services, MVAS or electronic mailbox services. · Uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet industry in China, including evolving licensing practices, give rise to the risk that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, which may be disruptive to our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. For example, on July 13, 2006, MII issued The Circular of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services (the “MII Circular 2006”). The MII Circular 2006 provides that (i) any domain name used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholder(s); (ii) any trademark used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by the carrier or its shareholder(s); (iii) the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecom carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecom services that the carrier has been approved to provide; and (iv) a value-added telecom carrier shall establish or improve the measures of ensuring safety of network information. The trademark “SINA” and domain name “www.sina.com.cn” were transferred from Beijing SINA Information Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Beijing Stone Rich Sight Information Technology Co., Ltd.), one of our wholly owned subsidiaries (“BSIT”) to Beijing SINA Internet Information Service Co., Ltd., a PRC company controlled by us through contractual arrangements (the “ICP Company”). · The numerous and often vague restrictions on acceptable content in China subject us to potential civil and criminal liabilities, temporary blockage of our website or complete cessation of our website. For example, the State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all Chinese government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. In addition, the newly amended Law on Preservation of State Secrets which became effective on October 1, 2010 provides that whenever an Internet service provider detects any leakage of state secrets in the distribution of online information, it should stop the distribution of such information and report to the authorities of state security and public security. Internet service providers are required to delete any content on its website that may lead to disclosure of state secrets. Failure to do so on a timely and adequate basis may subject us to liabilities and penalties. · Because the definition and interpretation of prohibited content are in many cases vague and subjective, it is not always possible to determine or predict what content might be prohibited under existing restrictions or restrictions that might be imposed in the future or how such restrictions will apply. For example, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television (“SARFT”), which regulates radio and television stations in China, prohibits the sale of fortune-telling related SMS, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SARFT or other Chinese governmental authorities may prohibit the marketing of other MVAS via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. · Certain Chinese governmental authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern Internet activities. The areas of regulation currently include, without limitation, online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, online education, online gaming, online transmission of audio-visual programs, online health diagnosis and treatment, and the provision of industry-specific information over the Internet. Other aspects of our online operations, such as video podcasting or blog services may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when they are put into effect. As a result, we could be subject to severe penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, effective as of January 31, 2008, the Administrative Provisions on Internet Audio-visual Program Service, jointly promulgated by SARFT and MII (the “Audio-visual Program Provisions”) require any entity engaged in providing Internet audio-visual program services to obtain a license or register with SARFT; an applicant for engaging in Internet audio-visual program service must be a state-owned entity or a state-controlled entity with full corporate capacity; and the business to be carried out by the applicant must satisfy the overall planning and 16 Table of Contents guidance catalogue issued by SARFT. SARFT and MII jointly held a press conference and clarified that websites that existed before the promulgation of the Audio-visual Program Provisions may, once they are registered with SARFT, continue operating audio-visual services so long as those websites have not been in violation of the laws and regulations. It is unclear based on the Audio-visual Program Provisions whether such requirements apply to entities that had already obtained the licenses before the Audio-visual Program Provisions became effective. · Our VIEs in China are not state-owned or state-controlled companies and without the clarification of SARFT and MII made in the above-mentioned press conference, they may not be qualified applicants for carrying out Internet audio-visual program services under the Audio-visual Program Provisions. The ICP Company currently holds a License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs issued by SARFT valid through April 16, 2012. The ICP Company submitted the renewal application to SARFT on September 23, 2011, which has been received and is being reviewed by SARFT. However, considering the requirements set out in the Audio-visual Program Provisions, it is uncertain whether the ICP Company will be able to successfully procure the renewal of the License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs. Should any official explanations or implementation rules of the Audio-visual Program Provisions be promulgated by SARFT or MII forbidding any non-state-controlled entities from engaging in Internet audio-visual program service, such that SARFT rejects our current renewal application, we may be disqualified from operating online transmission of audio-visual programs. · The governing bodies of China’s mobile industry from time to time issue policies that regulate the business practices relating to MVAS. We cannot predict the timing or substance of such new regulations, which may have a negative impact on our business. · On June 4, 2009, the Ministry of Culture and the MOFCOM jointly published a notice requiring any enterprise engaging in the business of “issuance of online game virtual currency” or “online game virtual currency trading services” to obtain approval from the Ministry of Culture. · On September 28, 2009, the General Administration of Press and Publication (“GAPP,” formerly the State Press and Publications Administration (“SPPA”)), the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published a notice prohibiting foreign investors from participating in the operation of online games via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements (“Circular 13”). It is not clear yet as to whether other PRC government authorities, such as the MOFCOM and MII, will support GAPP to enforce the prohibition of the VIE model that Circular 13 contemplates. · On June 3, 2010, the Ministry of Culture (“MCPRC”) promulgated the Interim Measures for Administration of Online Games, or the “Online Games Measures,” which became effective on August 1, 2010. The Online Games Measures reiterate that any online games operator should obtain an Online Culture Operating Permit to engage in online game services. In addition, the content of any imported online games should be examined and approved by MCPRC before they are operated within China, and any domestic online games should be registered with MCPRC. · On December 16, 2011, the Beijing Municipal Government issued the Rules on the Administration of Microblog Development, or the “Microblog Rules,” which became effective on the same day. The Microblog Rules, among other things, require users of microblogging services to register their identities with microblogging service providers. Microblogging service providers are required to verify the identities of their users. The Microblog Rules identify eleven categories of content that are restricted from being disseminated. Microblogging service providers are required to implement systems and procedures to ensure the security of user information and that the information disseminated by microblogging users is in compliance with the content restriction policy. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies, the stated positions of relevant PRC authorities and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. See “Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties” below for more details. 17 Table of Contents In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling ownership. If the PRC government determines that our agreements with these companies are not in compliance with applicable regulations, our business in the PRC could be adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in Internet-related and MVAS businesses, including Internet access, distribution of content over the Internet and MVAS. Accordingly, we operate our Internet-related and MVAS businesses in China through several VIEs that are PRC domestic companies owned principally or completely by certain of our PRC employees or PRC employees of our directly-owned subsidiaries. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective companies and their individual owners, but we have no equity control over these companies. Such restrictions and arrangements also apply to some of the China-based companies we have acquired or in which we have invested. See “Item 4.C. Organizational Structure.” We cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, including the requirements under the MII Circular 2006, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If we are determined not to be in compliance, the PRC government could levy fines, revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our ability to collect payments, block our website, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance under or enforcement of related contracts. For example, as part of the contractual arrangements described above, our relevant subsidiaries and the employee shareholders of the VIEs entered into equity pledge agreements pursuant to which the employee shareholders of the VIEs pledged their respective equity interests in the VIEs to our respective subsidiaries. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, such pledges will only be effective upon registration with the relevant local office for the administration for industry and commerce. Before a successful registration of the equity pledges, we cannot assure you that the effectiveness of such pledges can be recognized in PRC courts if disputes arise regarding the pledged equity interests or that our subsidiaries’ interests as pledgee will prevail over those of third parties. We are in the process of obtaining the relevant registrations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Because PRC regulations restrict our ability to provide Internet content and MVAS directly in China, we are dependent on our VIEs, in which we have little or no equity ownership interest, and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate these businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to maintain our website despite their contractual obligation to do so. Our VIEs are able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If these companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which we cannot be sure would be available. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of the VIEs will always act in the best interests of our company, especially if they leave our company. Substantially all profits generated from our VIEs are paid to our subsidiaries in China through related party transactions under contractual agreements. We believe that the terms of these contractual agreements are in compliance with the laws in China. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in China, it is possible that in the future tax authorities in China may challenge the prices that we have used for related party transactions among our entities in China. In the event the tax authorities challenge our VIE structure, we may be forced to restructure our business operation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the chops of our subsidiaries in China and VIEs are not kept safely, are stolen or are used by unauthorized persons or for unauthorized purposes, the corporate governance of those entities could be severely and adversely compromised. In China, a company chop or seal serves as the legal representation of the company towards third parties even when unaccompanied by a signature. Each legally registered company in China is required to have a company chop, which must be registered with the local Public Security Bureau. In addition to this mandatory chop, companies may have several other chops which can be used for specific purposes. The chops of our subsidiaries in China and VIEs are generally held securely by personnel designated or approved by us in accordance with our internal control procedures. To the extent those chops are not kept safely, are stolen or are used by unauthorized persons or for unauthorized purposes, the corporate governance of these entities could be severely and adversely compromised and those corporate entities may be bound to abide by the terms of any documents so chopped, even if they were chopped by an individual who lacked the requisite power and authority to do so. In addition, if the holders of such chops at our VIEs failed to employ them in accordance with the terms of the various VIE-related agreements or removed them from the premises, the operation of the VIEs could be significantly and adversely impacted. We are required to, but have not, verified the identities of all of our users who post on Weibo, and our noncompliance exposes us to potentially severe punishment by the Chinese government. On December 16, 2011, the Beijing Municipal Government issued the Microblog Rules. Among other things, the Microblog Rules require users who post publicly on microblogs to submit their real identities to the microblogging service provider, which is required to verify the identities of its users. Under the Microblog Rules, users are required to disclose their real identity information only to the microblogging service provider and may still use a pen name to reflect their account name on the front end. In addition, microblogging service providers based in Beijing are required to verify the identities of all of their users, including existing users who post publicly on their websites by March 16, 2012. Although we have made significant efforts to comply with the verification requirements, for reasons including existing user behavior, the nature of the microblogging product and the lack of clarity on specific implementation procedures, we have not been able to verify the identifies of all of the users who post content publicly on Weibo. We 18 Table of Contents believe successful implementation of user identity verification needs to be done over a long period of time to ensure a positive user experience. However, we may not be able to control the timing of such action, and, if the Chinese government enforces compliance in the near term, such action may severely reduce Weibo user traffic. The implementation of user identity verification has deterred new users from completing their registration on Weibo and a significant portion of those who have provided identity information to us was rejected by the Chinese government database, which means that these users will have limited posting ability in the future and may cause the level of activity of Weibo users to decrease over time. Furthermore, while the Microblog Rules are not clear regarding the type and extent of punishment that will be imposed on non-compliant microblogging service providers, we are potentially liable for noncompliance of the Microblog Rules or related government requirements, which may result in future punishment, including the deactivation of certain features on Weibo, termination of Weibo operations or other punishments determined by the Chinese government. Any of the above actions may have a material and adverse impact on our share price. Even if we are in compliance with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the Chinese government may prevent us from advertising or distributing content that it believes is inappropriate and we may be liable for such content or we may have to stop profiting from such content. The Chinese government has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet or through MVAS that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that it believes is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any websites maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network, via our MVAS or over the other platforms we use, or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business could be significantly harmed. Because the definition and interpretation of prohibited content is in many cases vague and subjective, it is not always possible to determine or predict what content might be prohibited under existing restrictions or restrictions that might be imposed in the future or how such restrictions will apply. In July 2004, our IVR service was temporarily terminated by China Mobile, citing that we had provided inappropriate content to our mobile subscribers through our IVR service. In January 2005, SARFT, which regulates radio and television stations in China, issued a notice prohibiting commercials for MVAS related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations. SARFT and other Chinese government authorities may prohibit the marketing of other MVAS via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are not sure whether operators, including China Mobile and China Unicom, or the Chinese government will find our other mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the MVAS relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our profit from MVAS will suffer. We are also subject to potential liability for content on our websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems. Although we attempt to monitor the user generated content on our online properties including Weibo, we may not always be able to effectively control or restrict the content generated or placed by our users. On March 31, 2012, we had to disable the comment feature of Weibo for three days to clean up postings related to certain rumors that were posted on our website. The Chinese government may choose to tighten its Internet censorship. If the Chinese government decides to restrict the dissemination of information via microblogging services or online postings in general, Weibo and our other online products could be impaired or even ordered to shut down, which may adversely impact our website traffic, our ability to monetize our services and our brand equity. Furthermore, we may be required to delete content that violates the laws of China and report content that we suspect may violate Chinese law. It is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our websites, which may adversely impact our website traffic, brand equity and financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could cause us to be less competitive. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect 19 Table of Contents our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations by third parties for services we provide or for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites, or distributed to our users, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. Companies in the Internet, technology, and media industries are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, unfair competition, invasion of privacy, defamation and other violations of other parties’ rights. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries, particularly in China, are uncertain and still evolving. As we face increasing competition and as litigation becomes more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. We allow users to upload written materials, images, pictures and other content on our platform and download, share, link to and otherwise access games and applications (some of which are developed by third parties) as well as audio, video and other content either on our platform or from other websites through our platform. We have procedures designed to reduce the likelihood that content might be used without proper licenses or third-party consents. However, these procedures may not be effective in preventing the unauthorized posting of copyrighted content. With respect to games and applications developed by third parties displayed on our platform, we have procedures designed to reduce the likelihood of infringement. However, such procedures might not be effective in preventing third-party games and applications from infringing other parties’ rights. We may face liability for copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, unfair competition, libel, negligence, and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are delivered, shared or otherwise accessed through our services or published on our websites. Defending patent and other intellectual property litigation is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. Such claims, even if they do not result in liability, may harm our reputation. Any resulting liability or expenses, or changes required to our websites to reduce the risk of future liability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. Our operations depend on the performance of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Almost all access to the Internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MII. Moreover, we primarily rely on a limited number of telecommunication service providers to provide us with data communications capacity through local telecommunications lines and Internet data centers to host our servers. We have limited access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or the fixed telecommunications networks provided by telecommunication service providers. The web traffic in China has experienced significant growth during the past few years. Effective bandwidth and server storage at Internet data centers in large cities such as Beijing are scarce. With the expansion of our business, we may be required to upgrade our technology and infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure and the fixed telecommunications networks in China will be able to support the demands associated with the continued growth in Internet usage. If we were unable to increase our online content and service delivering capacity accordingly, we may not be able to continuously grow our website traffic and the adoption of our products may be hindered, which could adversely impact our business and our share price. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by telecommunication service providers. If the prices we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, some users may be prevented from accessing the Internet and thus cause the growth of Internet users to decelerate. Such deceleration may adversely affect our ability to continue to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to online advertisers. Our operations could be disrupted by unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters or unauthorized tampering with our systems. The continual accessibility of websites and the performance and reliability of our network infrastructure are critical to our 20 Table of Contents reputation and our ability to attract and retain users, advertisers and merchants. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce our appeal to advertisers and consumers. Factors that could significantly disrupt our operations include system failures and outages caused by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events; software errors; computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems; and security breaches related to the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers or other personal information. We have limited backup systems and redundancy. In the past, we experienced an unauthorized tampering of the mail server of our China websites which briefly disrupted our operations. Future disruptions or any of the foregoing factors could damage our reputation, require us to expend significant capital and other resources and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected if any of the above disruptions should occur. We have contracted with third parties to provide content and services for our portal network and MVAS and we may lose users and revenues if these arrangements are terminated. We have arrangements with a number of third parties to provide content and services to our websites. In the area of content, we have relied and will continue to rely on third parties for the majority of the content that we publish under the SINA brand. Although no single third-party content provider is critical to our operations, if these parties fail to develop and maintain high-quality and successful media properties, or if a large number of our existing relationships are terminated, we could lose users and advertisers and our brand could be harmed. In addition, the PRC government has the ability to restrict or prevent state-owned media from cooperating with us in providing certain content to us, which will result in a significant decrease of the amount of content we can publish on our websites. We may lose users if the PRC government chooses to restrict or prevent state-owned media from cooperating with us, in which case our revenues will be impacted negatively. Certain state-owned media companies, from whom we currently procure content, have built their own portal websites and may decide to not cooperate with us in the future. In the area of web-based services, we have contracted with various third-party providers for our principal Internet connections. If we experience significant interruptions or delays in service, or if these agreements terminate or expire, we may incur additional costs to develop or secure replacement services and our relationship with our users could be harmed. A substantial part of our non-advertising revenues is generated through MVAS where we depend on mobile network operators for services delivery and payment collection. If we are unable to continue these arrangements, our MVAS could be severely disrupted or discontinued. Furthermore, we are highly dependent on these mobile service providers for our profitability in that they can choose to increase their service fees at will. We depend on a third party’s proprietary and licensed advertising serving technology to deliver advertisements to our network. If the third party fails to continue to support its technology or if its services fail to meet the advertising needs of our customers and we cannot find an alternative solution on a timely basis, our advertising revenues could decline. Increases in competition and market prices for professionally produced content may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We have recently experienced significant fee increases from some of our content providers in the areas of video content and other premium content. Competition for quality content for online advertising is intense in China. Our competitors include well-capitalized companies, both private and newly listed companies, many of whom operate on a net-loss basis, as well as well-established companies that have user traffic greater than ours. If we are unable to secure a large portfolio of quality content due to prohibitive cost, or if we are unable to manage our content acquisition costs effectively and generate sufficient revenues to outpace the increase in content spending, our website traffic, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Concerns about the security of e-commerce transactions and confidentiality of user information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to e-commerce and communications over the Internet in general has been a public concern over security and 21 Table of Contents privacy, especially the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could erode our brand equity, reduce traffic to our destination sites and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and results of operations. Any significant breach of security of our website could significantly harm our business, reputation and results of operations and could expose us to lawsuits brought by our users and partners and to sanctions by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. To date, we have not experienced any material breach of our security systems. However, we cannot assure you that our IT systems are completely secure from security breaches or computer virus attacks. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including the personal information of our users, obtaining users’ names and passwords and enabling the hackers to access users’ other online accounts, if those users use identical user names and passwords. They could also misappropriate information uploaded by our users in a secure environment, such as Weibo, SINA email, WeiDisk and other applications requiring user log-in that were internally developed or developed by third parties for use on Weibo’s open application platform. Functions that facilitate interactivity with other websites, such as our Weibo Connect that allows users to log onto partner websites using their Weibo identity, could increase the scope of access of hackers to other user accounts. These circumventions may cause interruptions in our operations or damage our brand image and reputation. Our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could cause system interruptions, website slowdown or unavailability, delays in communication or transactions, or loss of data. We may be required to incur significant additional costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. The law of the Internet remains largely unsettled, which subjects our business to legal uncertainties that could harm our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, antitrust and characteristics and quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet and other online services of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. For example, new tax regulations may subject us or our customers to additional sales and income taxes. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could significantly disrupt our operations or subject us to penalties. We may be subject to claims based on the content we provide over our network and the products and services sold on our network, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. As a publisher and distributor of content and a provider of services over the Internet, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we publish or distribute; the selection of listings that are accessible through our branded products and media properties, or through content and materials that may be posted by users in our classifieds, message boards, chat room services, social media, light blog, blog, online video and other areas on our websites; losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information published by us, such as stock quotes, analyst estimates or other trading information; unsolicited emails, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email or interruptions or delays in email service; and product liability, warranty and similar claims to be asserted against us by end users who purchase goods and services through SINA Mall and any future e-commerce services we may offer. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending any potential claims, even if they do not result in liability. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type and may not be adequate to indemnify us against all potential liabilities. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation for user-generated content provided on our websites, which may be time-consuming to defend. User-generated content, or UGC, has become an important source of content to draw traffic to our website. Our UGC platforms, including social media, light blog, blog, online video, audio streaming and photo gallery, are open to the public for posting. Although we have required our users to post only decent and unobtrusive materials and have set up screening procedures, our screening procedures may fail to screen out all potentially offensive or non-compliant UGC and, even if properly screened, a third party may still find UGC postings on our website offensive and take action against us in connection with the posting of such information. As with other companies who provide UGC on their websites, we have had to deal with such claims in the past and anticipate that such claims will increase as UGC becomes more popular in China. Any such claim, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and may result in litigation and divert management’s attention and resources. We may have to register our encryption software with Chinese regulatory authorities, and if they request that we change our encryption software, our business operations could be disrupted as we develop or license replacement software. Pursuant to the Regulations for the Administration of Commercial Encryption promulgated at the end of 1999, foreign and domestic companies operating in China are required to seek approval from the Office of the State for Cipher Code Administration (“OSCCA”), the Chinese encryption regulatory authority, for the commercial encryption products they use. Companies operating in China are allowed to use only commercial cipher code products approved by OSCCA and are prohibited to use self-developed or imported cipher code products without approval. In addition, all cipher code products shall be produced by those producers appointed and approved by OSCCA. In December 2005, OSCCA further released a series of rules, effective January 1, 2006, regulating many aspects of commercial cipher code products in detail, including development, production and sales. Because these regulations do not specify what constitutes a cipher code product, we are unsure as to whether or how they apply to us and the encryption software we utilize. We may be required to register, or apply for permits with OSCCA for, our current or future encryption software. If PRC regulatory authorities request that we register our encryption software or change our current encryption software to an approved cipher code product produced by an appointed producer, it could disrupt our business operations. Privacy concerns may prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising in the future and make us less attractive to advertisers. We collect personal data from our user base in order to better understand our users and their needs and to help our advertisers target specific demographic groups. If privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising, we may become less attractive to advertisers. For example, as part of our future advertisement delivery system, we may integrate user information such as advertisement response rate, name, address, age or email address, with third-party databases to generate comprehensive demographic profiles for individual users. In Hong Kong, however, the Hong Kong Personal Data Ordinance provides that an Internet company may not collect information about its users, analyze the information for a profile of the user’s interests and sell or transmit the profiles to third parties for direct marketing purposes without the user’s consent. If we are unable to construct demographic profiles of Internet users because they refuse to give consent, we will be less attractive to advertisers and our business could suffer. Political and economic conditions in Greater China and the rest of Asia are unpredictable and may disrupt our operations if these conditions become unfavorable to our business. We expect to continue to derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the Greater China market. Changes in political or economic conditions in the region are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause the Greater China market to become less attractive to advertisers, which could reduce our revenues. We maintain a strong local identity and presence in each of the regions in the Greater China market and we cannot be sure that we will be able to effectively maintain this local identity if political conditions were to change. The growth rate of the Chinese economy, and neighboring economies, slowed significantly in the wake of the global financial crisis. Economic reforms in the region could also affect our business in ways that are difficult to predict. For example, since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the Chinese economic system to emphasize enterprise autonomy and the utilization of market mechanisms. Although we believe that these reform measures have had a positive effect on the economic development in China, we cannot be sure that they will be effective or that they will benefit our business. 23 Table of Contents Future outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), H1N1 flu (“Swine flu”), Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business. Future outbreaks of SARS, Swine flu, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems in China and surrounding areas, where most of our employees work, could negatively impact our business in ways that are hard to predict. Prior experience with the SARS virus suggests that a future outbreak of SARS, Swine flu, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems may lead public health authorities to enforce quarantines, which could result in closures of some of our offices and other disruptions of our operations. A future outbreak of SARS, Swine flu, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could result in the reduction of our advertising and fee-based revenues. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still young and the business insurance products offered in China are limited. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our resources. Our significant amount of deposits in certain banks in China may be at risk if these banks go bankrupt or otherwise do not have the liquidity to pay us during our deposit period. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $405.2 million in cash and bank deposits, such as time deposits (with terms generally up to twelve months) with large domestic banks in China. The remaining cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by financial institutions in Hong Kong, Taiwan and the United States. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to twelve months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which came into effect on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been strong competitors against Chinese banks in many aspects, especially since the opening of RMB business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy or illiquidity of those Chinese banks in which we have deposits has increased. In the event of bankruptcy or illiquidity of any one of the banks which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to claim our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. If tax benefits available to us in China are reduced or repealed, our results of operations could suffer significantly and your investment in our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands where no income taxes are imposed for businesses operated outside of the Cayman Islands. We have operations in four tax jurisdictions including China, the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan. For our operations in the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan, we have incurred net accumulated operating losses for income tax purposes. We believe that it is more likely than not that these net accumulated operating losses will not be utilized to offset taxable income in the future and hence we have not recognized income tax benefits for these locations. We do not expect that we will record any taxable income for our operations in the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan in the foreseeable future. We generated substantially all our net income from our China operations. Our China operations are conducted through various subsidiaries and VIEs. Due to our operation and tax structures in the PRC, we have entered into technical and other service agreements between our directly owned subsidiaries and our VIEs in the PRC. We incur a business tax of up to 5% when our directly owned subsidiaries receive the fees from the VIEs pursuant to such service agreements, which we include in our operating expenses as the cost of transferring economic benefit generated from these VIEs. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the tax transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in the PRC, it is possible that tax authorities in the PRC might in the future challenge the transfer prices that we used for the related party transactions among our entities in the PRC. Beginning January 1, 2008, the new Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) and the Implementing Rules of the EIT Law (the “Implementing Rules”) approved by the State Council became effective in China, which require, among other things, enterprises in China to submit their annual enterprise income tax returns together with a report on transactions with their affiliates to the relevant tax authorities. The EIT Law and the Implementing Rules emphasize the arm’s length basis for transactions between related entities. If PRC tax authorities were to determine that our transfer pricing structure was not on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitutes a favorable transfer pricing, they could request that our VIEs adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing 24 Table of Contents adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our VIEs’ tax expenses, which could subject our VIEs to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes, and/or could result in the loss of tax benefits available to our subsidiaries in China. The EIT Law supplemented by the Implementing Rules supersedes the previous Income Tax Law for Foreign-Invested Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises (the “Previous IT Law”) and unifies the enterprise income tax rate for foreign-invested enterprises (“FIEs”) and domestic enterprises at 25%. High and new technology enterprises continue to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%, but must meet the criteria defined under the EIT Law and related regulations. The EIT Law provides for a five-year transitional period for certain entities that enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% and/or a preferential tax holiday under the Previous IT Law and were established before March 16, 2007, during which period the applicable enterprise income tax rate shall gradually increase to 25%. In addition, the EIT Law provides grandfather treatment for high and new technology enterprises that received special tax holidays under the Previous IT Law, which allows them to continue to enjoy their tax holidays until expiration provided that specific conditions are met. In December 2011, three of our subsidiaries in China were qualified as high and new technology enterprises under the EIT Law. In addition, certain VIEs in China enjoy a favorable income tax rate of less than 25%. According to the EIT Law and the Administration Measures for Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises, which were jointly promulgated by the Ministry of Science & Technology, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Administration of Taxation on April 14, 2008, the high and new technology enterprise status of our three subsidiaries is subject to an annual review and may be overturned by the Municipal Science & Technology Commission in the future. The EIT Law is relatively new and implementation practices are still being defined. If tax benefits available to us as high and new technology enterprises in China are reduced or repealed, our net effective tax rate may increase to as high as 25%. The EIT Law also provides that an enterprise established under the laws of a foreign country or region but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes and consequently be subject to the PRC income tax at the rate of 25% for its global income. The Implementing Rules merely define the location of the “de facto management body” as “the place where the exercising, in substance, of the overall management and control of the production and business operation, personnel, accounting, properties, etc., of a non-PRC company is located.” Based on a review of surrounding facts and circumstances, we do not believe that it is likely that our operations outside the PRC should be considered a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. However, due to limited guidance and implementation history of the EIT Law, if we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on worldwide income at a uniform tax rate of 25% retroactive to January 1, 2008. Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes and dividends distributed to our non-PRC investors and gains realized by our non-PRC shareholders from the transfer of our shares may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the EIT Law. The EIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends generated on or after January 1, 2008 and distributed by a resident enterprise to its foreign investors, if such foreign investors are considered as non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place within China or if the received dividends have no connection with such foreign investors’ establishment or place within China, unless such foreign investors’ jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Such withholding income tax was exempted under the Previous IT Law. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such tax treaty with China. According to the arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion in August 2006, dividends paid by an FIE to its foreign investors in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the FIE). The State Administration of Taxation further promulgated a circular, or Circular 601, on October 27, 2009, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and that a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant the tax treaty benefits. A majority of our subsidiaries in China are directly invested in and held by Hong Kong registered entities. If we are regarded as a non-resident enterprise and our Hong Kong entities are regarded as resident enterprises, then our Hong Kong entities may be required to pay a 10% withholding tax on any dividends payable to us. If our Hong Kong entities are regarded as non-resident enterprises, then our subsidiaries in China will be required to pay a 5% withholding tax for any dividends payable to our Hong Kong entities provided that specific conditions are met. However, it is still unclear at this stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to our Hong Kong subsidiaries and if our Hong Kong subsidiaries were not considered as “beneficial owners” of any dividends from their PRC subsidiaries, the dividends payable to our Hong Kong subsidiaries would be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. In either case, the amount of funds available to us, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders, could be materially reduced. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the concept of “the place of de facto management body,” if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, under the EIT Law, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders will be subject to PRC withholding tax. We also cannot guarantee that any gains realized by such non-PRC 25 Table of Contents shareholders from the transfer of our shares will not be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders or any gains realized by our non-PRC shareholders from transfer of the shares, their investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. The current policy approved by our Board allows us to distribute PRC earnings offshore only if we do not have to pay a dividend tax. Such policy may require us to reinvest all earnings made since 2008 onshore indefinitely or be subject to a significant withholding tax should our policy change to allow for earnings distribution offshore. We may be subject to a significant withholding tax should equity transfers by our non-China tax resident enterprises be determined to have been done without a reasonable business purpose. In December 2009, the State Administration of Tax in China issued a circular on strengthening the management of proceeds from equity transfers by non-China tax resident enterprises and requires foreign entities to report indirect sales of China tax resident enterprises. If the existence of the overseas intermediary holding company is disregarded due to lack of reasonable business purpose or substance, gains on such sale are subject to PRC withholding tax. We believe that there was a reasonable business purpose for the merger of COHT with CRIC, which was to realize the business synergy created by the merger to form a real estate information services platform both online and offline with diversified revenue streams, serving both real estate businesses and consumers. The merger of COHT with CRIC was made with the intent to vertically integrate the selling of real estate data and consulting services (B2B) with online advertising (B2C) and to leverage the strength of CRIC’s offline resources with our online strengths. Together, COHT and CRIC became a real estate information, consulting and advertising space in China. The simultaneous initial public offering allowed the combined company to raise additional capital to fund its future growth. Due to limited guidance and implementation history of the then new circular, significant judgment was required in the determination of a reasonable business purpose for an equity transfer by our non-China tax resident entity by considering factors, including but not limited to, the form and substance of the arrangement, time of establishment of the foreign entity, relationship between each step of the arrangement, relationship between each component of the arrangement, implementation of the arrangement and the changes in the financial position of all parties involved in the transaction. Although we believe that it is more likely than not the said transaction would be determined as one with a reasonable business purpose, should this not be the case, we would be subject to a significant withholding tax that could materially and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us bind our subsidiaries and VIEs in China. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations in China other than our investments in our entities in China, including SINA.com Technology (China) Co., Ltd. (“STC”), SINA Technology (China) Co., Ltd. (“SNTC”), Beijing New Media Information Technology Co. Ltd., Beijing SINA Advertising Co. Ltd., SINA (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd., Shanghai SINA Advertising Co. Ltd., Fayco Network Technology Development (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd., and our VIEs. As a result, if our non-China operations require cash from China, we would depend on dividend payments from our subsidiaries in China for our revenues after they receive payments from our VIEs in China under various services and other arrangements. We cannot make any assurance that our subsidiaries in China can continue to receive the payments as arranged under our contracts with those VIEs. To the extent that these VIEs have undistributed after-tax net income, we will have to pay tax on behalf of the employees when we try to distribute the dividends from these local entities in the future. Such withholding individual income tax rate is 20%. In addition, under Chinese law, our subsidiaries are only allowed to pay dividends to us out of their distributable earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Moreover, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after-tax profit each year, if any, to fund certain mandated reserve funds, unless these reserves have reached 50% of their registered capital. These reserve funds are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. For Chinese subsidiaries with after-tax profits for the periods presented, the difference between after-tax profits as calculated under PRC accounting standards and U.S. GAAP relates primarily to share-based compensation expenses and intangible assets amortization expenses, which are not pushed down to our subsidiaries and VIEs under PRC accounting standards. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currency out of China in certain cases. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “— Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenues and profits in U.S. dollar terms.” If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our ordinary shares. 26 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenues and profits in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan use their respective local currencies as their functional currencies. The majority of our revenues derived and expenses incurred are in Chinese RMB with a relatively small amount in New Taiwan dollars, Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the RMB depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Starting July 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, the RMB appreciated approximately 6.4%, less than 1.0%, 3.0% and 4.9% against the U.S. dollar in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that the RMB or any other foreign currency will be stable against the U.S. dollar. The income statements of our China, Hong Kong and Taiwan operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions results in reduced revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of RMB, Hong Kong dollar and New Taiwan dollar-denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for most of the capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of RMB in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenues may be in the form of RMB, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, or to repay non-RMB-denominated obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor that is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”), and if investors lose confidence in our reported financial information, our share price may suffer. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the PCAOB and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. 27 Table of Contents The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors in countries that have received PCAOB inspections. If investors lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements, our share price may suffer. Changes to accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our reported results of operations or how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. For example, we adopted accounting guidance on stock-based compensation starting January 1, 2006. This guidance requires us to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation at fair value and take compensation charges equal to that value. The method that we use to determine the fair value of share options is based upon, among other things, the volatility of our ordinary shares. The method that we use to determine the fair value of restricted share units is based upon the market price of our ordinary shares on the date of the grant. The price of our ordinary shares has historically been volatile. Therefore, the requirement to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation under this guidance could negatively affect our profitability and the trading price of our ordinary shares. This guidance and the impact of expensing on our reported results could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options or other stock-based instruments as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, such as accounting guidance on uncertain tax positions, the EIT Law in China which was effective January 1, 2008, and various interpretations of accounting pronouncement or taxation practice have been adopted and may be adopted in the future. These accounting standard and tax regulation changes, future changes and the uncertainties surrounding current practices and implementation procedures may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in share price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. In 2011, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $68.9 million related to our MVAS business. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any additional impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Our share price has been historically volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be subject to considerable daily fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the closing sale prices of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $52.00 to $142.83 per share. Our share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, our ability to meet expectations on the progress of our key business initiatives, such as Weibo development, growth in traffic and monetization, announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, new governmental restrictions, regulations or practice, news reports relating to trends 28 Table of Contents in our markets and market rumors regarding our company. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for China-related and Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. The Chinese legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs in China are governed by the laws of the PRC. China’s legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, and therefore you may not have legal protections for certain matters in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us. We conduct our operations in China and a significant portion of our assets is located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon those directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that Chinese courts recognize and enforce judgments of foreign courts based on treaties on recognizing and enforcing each other’s judgments or the reciprocal principle with foreign countries. China does not have treaties with the U.S. and some other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in these jurisdictions may be difficult or impossible. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. As explained below, we may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current or a future taxable year. In the event we are determined to be a PFIC, our shares may become less attractive to U.S. investors, thus negatively impacting the price of our shares. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To determine if at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may use the market capitalization method of determining the value of our assets. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company is considered to equal the fair market value of its outstanding shares plus its outstanding indebtedness on a relevant testing date. Because the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to fluctuate and may be volatile, and the market price may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a PFIC, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are characterized as a PFIC for any year, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to any dividends received on our ordinary shares by non-corporate investors who are U.S. Holders, as defined under “Item 10E — Taxation — United States Federal Taxation,” and having potential interest charges apply to any dividends or the proceeds of share sales. Our executive officers have substantial influence over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially control, in the aggregate, approximately 8.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of April 13, 2012. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to influence the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our ordinary shares by: 29 Table of Contents · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and our shareholder rights plan may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change in control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or from otherwise engaging in a merger or similar transaction with us. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue up to 3,750,000 preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if the Board of Directors issues preference shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Similarly, the Board of Directors may approve the issuance of debentures convertible into voting shares, which may limit the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our existing shareholders would have the right to purchase ordinary shares from us at half the market price then prevailing in the event a person or group acquires more than 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares on terms our Board of Directors does not approve. As a result, such rights could cause substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 10%. Accordingly, the shareholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control or acquisition and could adversely affect a shareholder’s ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for our ordinary shares in connection with such a transaction. 