D. Risk Factors Investing in our shares and ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report in evaluating an investment in our shares or ADSs. Our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materializes and, as a result, the trading price of the shares or the ADSs could decline and you could lose a substantial part or even all of your investment. 15 Table of Contents We have included information in these risk factors concerning Brazil based on information that is publicly available. Risks Relating to Ultrapar and Its Industries Petrobras is the main supplier of LPG and oil-based fuels in Brazil. Fuel distributors in Brazil, including Ipiranga, have formal contracts with Petrobras for the supply of oil-based fuels. Ultragaz has a formal contract with Petrobras for the supply of LPG. Any interruption in the supply of LPG or oil-based fuels from Petrobras would immediately affect Ultragaz or Ipiranga’s ability to provide LPG and oil-based fuels to their customers. Prior to 1995, Petrobras held a constitutional monopoly for the production and importation of petroleum products in Brazil. Although this monopoly was removed from the Brazilian constitution, Petrobras effectively remains the main provider of LPG and oil-based fuels in Brazil. Currently, Ultragaz and all other LPG distributors in Brazil purchase all or nearly all LPG from Petrobras. Ultragaz’s net revenue from sales and services represented 7% of our consolidated net revenue from sales and services for the year ended December 31, 2013. The procedures for ordering and purchasing LPG from Petrobras are generally common to all LPG distributors — including Ultragaz. For more details, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Supply of LPG.” With respect to fuel distribution, Petrobras also supplied nearly all of Ipiranga and other distributors’ oil-based fuel requirements in 2013. Petrobras’ supply to Ipiranga is governed by an annual contract, under which the supply volume is established based on the volume purchased in the previous year. Ipiranga’s net revenue from sales and services represented 88% of our consolidated net revenue from sales and services for the year ended December 31, 2013. The last significant interruption in the supply of oil derivatives by Petrobras to LPG and fuel distributors occurred during the 1995 strike by Petrobras employees. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Industry and Regulatory Overview.” Significant interruptions of LPG and oil-based fuel supply from Petrobras may occur in the future. Any interruption in the supply of LPG or oil-based fuels from Petrobras would immediately affect Ultragaz or Ipiranga’s respective ability to provide LPG or oil-based fuels to its customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of LPG or oil-based fuels from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through LPG or oil-based fuels purchased on the international market. The average cost of LPG and oil based fuels imported from the international markets in 2013 was higher than the price we obtained through Petrobras. As a result, any such interruption could increase our purchase costs and, consequently, adversely affect our operating margins. Ipiranga operates in the fuel market, which has been presenting a robust growth in volumes in recent years. If the supply of fuels, either by refineries in Brazil or by imports, is not sufficient to serve the growth in demand, Ipiranga’s ability to provide oil-based fuels to their customers could be immediately affected. In recent years, Brazilian consumption of oil-based fuels has grown consistently, mainly diesel and gasoline that together represented more than 85% of fuels sold in Brazil in 2013. In the last three years ended December 31, 2013, the consumption of diesel grew, on average, 5.9% per year, as a result of the Brazilian economic performance, particularly the agricultural and consumer goods segments. During the same period, the sales of gasoline by the Brazilian distributors grew by 11.5%, boosted by the growth of the light vehicle fleet in the country. Combined, sales of gasoline and diesel grew by 9.4% per year during the last three years ended December 31, 2013. The Brazilian fuel market is supplied by domestic refining and by imports. During the last three years ended December 31, 2013, imports of diesel and gasoline A combined have grown by an average of 11.4% per year (4.5% in diesel and 78.6% in gasoline A) as the local production of gasoline and diesel was not sufficient to serve the Brazilian market demand. If the supply of fuels by local refineries and imports are insufficient to meet the demand in Brazil, including as a result of interruptions in supply, insufficient logistics infrastructure or delays in the construction of new refineries , Ipiranga’s ability to provide fuels to its customers would be immediately affected, with a negative impact on its growth perspectives. Consequently, our results could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Intense competition in the LPG and in the Brazilian fuel distribution market may affect our operating margins. The Brazilian LPG market is very competitive in all segments — residential, commercial and industrial. Petrobras, our supplier of LPG, and other major companies participate in the Brazilian LPG distribution market. Intense competition in the LPG distribution market could lead to lower sales volumes and increased marketing expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview — The role of Petrobras” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Competition.” The Brazilian fuel distribution market is highly competitive in both retail and wholesale segments. Petrobras, our supplier of oil-derivative products, and other major companies with significant resources participate in the Brazilian fuel distribution market. Intense competition in the fuel distribution market could lead to lower sales volumes and increased marketing expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Industry and Regulatory Overview — The role of Petrobras” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Ipiranga — Competition.” In addition, a number of small local and regional distributors entered the Brazilian fuel distribution market in the late 90s, after the market was deregulated, which further increased competition in such market. Anticompetitive practices by our competitors may distort market prices. In the recent past, anticompetitive practices have been one of the main problems affecting fuels distributors in Brazil, including Ipiranga. Generally these practices have involved a combination of tax evasion and fuels adulteration, such as the dilution of gasoline by mixing solvents or adding anhydrous ethanol in an amount greater than that permitted by applicable law. Taxes constitute a significant portion of the cost of fuels sold in Brazil. For this reason, tax evasion on the part of some fuel distributors has been prevalent, allowing them to lower the prices they charge. As the final prices for the products sold by these distributors, including Ipiranga, are calculated based on, among other factors, the amount of taxes levied on the purchase and sale of these fuels, anticompetitive practices such as tax evasion may affect Ipiranga’s sales volume and could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. Should there be any increase in the taxes levied on fuel, tax evasion may increase, resulting in a greater distortion of the prices of fuels sold. These practices have enabled certain distributors to supply fuel products at prices lower than those offered by the major distributors, including Ipiranga. Although the Brazilian government has been taking measures to inhibit these practices, if such practices become more prevalent, Ipiranga could suffer from a reduction in sales volume and in margins, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. LPG competes with alternative sources of energy. Competition with and the development of alternative sources of energy in the future may adversely affect the LPG market. LPG competes with alternative sources of energy, such as natural gas, wood, diesel, fuel oil and electricity. Natural gas is currently the principal source of energy against which we compete. Natural gas is currently less expensive than LPG for industrial consumers who purchase large volumes, but more expensive for residential consumers. Changes in relative prices or the development of alternative sources of energy in the future may adversely affect the LPG market and consequently our business, financial results and results of operations. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Competition.” Ethylene, the principal raw material used in our petrochemical operations, comes from limited supply sources. Any reduction in the supply of ethylene would have an immediate impact on Oxiteno’s production and results of operations. All second generation petrochemical producers in Brazil that use ethylene as their key raw material, including Oxiteno, our subsidiary involved in the production and sale of chemical and petrochemical products, purchase ethylene from Brazilian suppliers. Approximately 3% of our net revenue from sales and services were derived from the sale of chemical products that require ethylene in 2013. Oxiteno purchases ethylene from two of Brazil’s three naphtha cracker units, which are the sole sources of ethylene in Brazil. Pursuant to long-term contracts, Braskem supplies all of our ethylene requirements at our plants located at Camaçari and at Mauá. For more detailed information about these contracts see “Item 5.F. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Tabular Disclosure 17 Table of Contents of Contractual Obligations.” Given its characteristics, ethylene is difficult and expensive to store and transport, and cannot be easily imported to Brazil. Therefore, Oxiteno is almost totally dependent on ethylene produced at Braskem for its supply. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Brazil’s ethylene imports totaled 4,453 tons, representing 0.11% of Brazil’s installed capacity. Due to ethylene’s chemical characteristics, Oxiteno does not store any quantity of ethylene, and reductions in supply from Braskem would have an immediate impact on our production and results of operations. In August 2011, we concluded the expansion of the ethylene oxide unit in Camaçari, adding 90 thousand tons per year to its production capacity. We have agreed with Braskem on an additional ethylene supply, which commenced after this expansion was completed. See “Item 4.A. Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company — Investments.” If we further expand our production capacity, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional ethylene from Braskem. In addition, Petrobras is the principal supplier of naphtha to crackers in Brazil, and any interruption in the supply of naphtha from Petrobras to the crackers could adversely impact their ability to supply ethylene to Oxiteno. The price of palm kernel oil, one of Oxiteno’s main raw materials, is subject to fluctuations in international markets. Palm kernel oil is one of Oxiteno’s main raw materials, used to produce fatty alcohols and its by-products in the oleochemical unit. Oxiteno imports the palm kernel oil from the main producing countries, especially Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm kernel oil is a vegetable oil, also commonly used by the food industry. Consequently, palm kernel oil prices are subject to the effects of environmental and climatic variations that affect the palm plantations, fluctuations of harvest periods, economic environment in major producing countries and fluctuations in the demand for its use in the food industry. A significant increase in palm kernel oil could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on Oxiteno’s results of operations. New natural gas reserves, primarily in North America, may reduce the global prices of natural gas-based ethylene, which could affect Oxiteno’s competitiveness with imported petrochemical products. The ethylene used in the chemical and petrochemical industries can be obtained either from ethane, which is derived from natural gas, or naphtha, which is derived from oil. During the last few years, naphtha-based ethylene has been increasingly more expensive than natural gas-based ethylene, as oil prices have been higher than those of natural gas. The discovery of new shale gas reserves in North America and improvements in the technology to extract natural gas from shale gas have intensified the difference between naphtha- and natural gas-based ethylene prices. Most of the ethylene produced in Brazil is derived from naphtha. As Oxiteno competes in the Brazilian market largely with imported products, lowering feedstock costs of international players could affect the competitiveness of Oxiteno, which could materially affect our results. The Brazilian petrochemical industry is influenced by the performance of the international petrochemical industry and its cyclical behavior. The international petrochemical market is cyclical by nature, with alternating periods typically characterized by tight supply, increased prices and high margins, or by overcapacity, declining prices and low margins. The decrease in Brazilian import tariffs on petrochemical products, the increase in demand for such products in Brazil, and the ongoing integration of regional and world markets for commodities have contributed to the increasing integration of the Brazilian petrochemical industry into the international petrochemical marketplace. As a consequence, events affecting the petrochemical industry worldwide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of ethylene is subject to fluctuations in international oil prices. The price of ethylene, which is the principal component of Oxiteno’s cost of sales and services, is directly linked to the price of naphtha, which, in turn, is largely linked to the price of crude oil. Consequently, ethylene prices are subject to fluctuations in international oil prices. A significant increase in the price of crude oil and, consequently, naphtha and ethylene, could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on Oxiteno’s results of operations. The reduction in import tariffs on petrochemical products can reduce our competitiveness in relation to imported products. Final prices paid by importers of petrochemical products include import tariffs. Consequently, import tariffs imposed by the Brazilian government affect the prices we can charge for our products. The Brazilian government’s negotiation of commercial and other intergovernmental agreements may result in reductions in the Brazilian import tariffs on petrochemical products, which generally range between 12% and 14%, and may reduce the competitiveness of Oxiteno’s products vis-à-vis imported petrochemical products. Additionally, Oxiteno’s competitiveness may also be reduced in case of higher import tariffs imposed by countries to which the company exports its products. 18 Table of Contents Regulatory, political, economic and social conditions in the countries in which we have operations or projects could adversely impact our business and the market price of our securities. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by regulatory, political, economic and social conditions in countries in which we have operations or projects. In some of these jurisdictions, we are exposed to various risks such as potential renegotiation, nullification or forced modification of existing contracts, expropriation or nationalization of property, foreign exchange controls, changes in local laws, regulations and policies and political instability. We also face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce a judgment against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Actual or potential political or social changes and changes in economic policy may undermine investor confidence, which may hamper investment and thereby reduce economic growth, and otherwise may adversely affect the economic and other conditions under which we operate in ways that could have a materially negative effect on our business. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation and regulation by government agencies responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies in Brazil, Mexico, the Unites States, Uruguay and Venezuela. Companies like ours are required to obtain licenses for their manufacturing facilities from environmental authorities who may also regulate their operations by prescribing specific environmental standards in their operating licenses. Environmental regulations apply particularly to the discharge, handling and disposal of gaseous, liquid and solid products and by-products from manufacturing activities. In 2007, a legislation entitled REACH (Registration Evaluation Authorization of Chemicals) was established by the European Union, focusing on controlling the production, imports and utilization of chemical products in the region. According to REACH, all the chemical products sold in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) must be registered, through the submission of information regarding properties, uses and safety of each product that will be analyzed by the European Regulatory Agency. In 2013, 2% of the volume sold by Oxiteno was exported to this region. Oxiteno is in compliance with the current legislative requirements for the products it currently exports in the EEA. As REACH is now an established regulation and has been well accepted by multilateral trade organizations, such as the World Trade Organization, it is possible that other countries may adopt similar procedures in the future. We cannot guarantee the effect that amendments to this new legislation could have on any product we export to the EEA, or whether similar legislation will come into force in other regions. Changes in these laws and regulations, or changes in their enforcement, could adversely affect us by increasing our cost of compliance or operations. In addition, new laws or additional regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could require us to spend additional funds on related matters in order to stay in compliance, thus increasing our costs and having an adverse effect on our results. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards”, “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Petrochemicals and Chemicals — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards.” The production, storage and transportation of LPG, fuels and petrochemicals are inherently hazardous. The operations we perform at our plants involve safety risks and other operating risks, including the handling, production, storage and transportation of highly inflammable, explosive and toxic materials. These risks could result in personal injury and death, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. A sufficiently large accident at one of our plants, service stations or storage facilities could force us to suspend our operations in the local temporarily and result in significant remediation costs and loss of revenues. In addition, insurance proceeds may not be available on a timely basis and may be insufficient to cover all losses. Equipment breakdowns, natural disasters and delays in obtaining imports or required replacement parts or equipment can also affect our manufacturing operations and consequently our results from operations. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses that we might incur. The operation of any chemical manufacturing plant and the distribution of petrochemicals, as well as the operations of logistics of oil, chemical products, LPG and fuel distribution involve substantial risks of property contamination and personal injury and may result in material costs and liabilities. Although we believe that current insurance levels are adequate, the occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance or that exceed the limits of our insurance coverage could result in significant unexpected additional costs. 19 Table of Contents The suspension, cancellation or non-renewal of certain federal tax benefits may adversely affect our results of operations. We are entitled to federal tax benefits providing for income tax exemption or reduction for our activities in the northeast region of Brazil. These benefits have defined terms and may be cancelled or suspended at any time if we distribute to our shareholders the amount of income tax that was not paid as a consequence of tax benefits or if the relevant tax authorities decide to suspend or cancel our benefits. As a result, we may become liable for the payment of related taxes at the full tax rates. If we are not able to renew such benefits, or if we are only able to renew them under terms that are substantially less favorable than expected, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Income tax exemptions amounted to R$52.8 million and R$43.4 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Income tax exemption status,” “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Petrochemicals and Chemicals — Oxiteno — Income tax exemption status” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Storage services for liquid bulk — Ultracargo — Income tax exemption status.” Our founding family and part of our senior management, through their ownership interest in Ultra S.A., own a significant portion of our shares and may influence the management, direction and policies of Ultrapar, including the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of shareholders. Although there is no controlling shareholder of Ultrapar, our founding family and part of our senior management, through their ownership interest in Ultra S.A., beneficially own 22% of our outstanding common stock. These individuals are party to a shareholders’ agreement executed on February 24, 2014. See “Item 4.A. Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company” and “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements.” Accordingly, these shareholders, acting together through Ultra S.A., may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. Although our Board of Directors is responsible for nominating the slate of directors to be elected by our shareholders at our annual shareholders’ meetings, the current members of our Board of Directors, who were elected at our April 10, 2013 meeting, are substantially the same as those who previously served as members of our Board of Directors elected by Ultra S.A. on April 27, 2011, which, at that time, held approximately 66% of our voting shares. No single shareholder or group of shareholders holds more than 50% of our capital stock, which may increase the opportunity for alliances between shareholders and other events that may occur as a result thereof. No single shareholder or group of shareholders holds more than 50% of our capital stock. Due to the absence of a controlling shareholder, we may be subject to future alliances or agreements between our shareholders, which may result in the exercise of a relevant influence over our company by them. In the event a controlling group is formed and decides to exercise its influence over our company, we may be subject to unexpected changes in our corporate governance and strategies, including the replacement of key executive officers. Any unexpected change in our management team, business policy or strategy, any dispute between our shareholders, or any attempt to acquire control of our company may have an adverse impact on us. The term of office of our current members of our Board of Directors will expire in the annual general shareholders’ meeting to be held in 2015. Our status as a holding company may limit our ability to pay dividends on the shares and consequently, on the ADSs. As a holding company, we have no significant operating assets other than the ownership of shares of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our operating income comes from our subsidiaries, and therefore we depend on the distribution of dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity from our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends depends solely upon our receipt of dividends and other cash flows from our subsidiaries. As a result of the significant acquisitions of Ipiranga, União Terminais, Texaco, the Extrafarma Transaction, as well as other smaller acquisitions and possible future acquisitions, Ultrapar has assumed and may assume in the future certain liabilities related to the transactions and of the businesses acquired and all the risks related to those liabilities. Ultrapar has assumed certain liabilities of the businesses acquired in the last years; therefore, certain existing financial obligations, legal liabilities or other known and unknown contingent liabilities or risks of the businesses acquired have become the 20 Table of Contents responsibility of Ultrapar. Ultrapar may acquire new businesses in the future and, as a result, it may be subject to additional liabilities, obligations and risks. See “Item 4.A. Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company” for more information in connection with these acquisitions. These liabilities may cause Ultrapar to be required to make payments, incur charges or take other actions that may adversely affect Ultrapar’s financial position and results of operations and the price of Ultrapar’s shares. In February 2014, we started operating in the retail pharmacy sector, a new business unit in which we have limited experience and which could subject us to additional and unknown business and operating risks. In February, 2014 we entered the retail pharmacy sector through an association agreement with Extrafarma, a Brazilian drugstore chain. Prior to this transaction, we were not involved in the drugstore business. The drugstore business is complex and involves assets and operations in which we have limited operating experience. Our ability to succeed in this new business unit will depend upon our ability to address and overcome limitations in our experience. The difficulties of integrating new business activities with our existing operations include, among other things, operating distinct business segments that require different operating strategies and different managerial expertise, necessity of coordinating organization systems and facilities in different locations and integrating personnel with diverse backgrounds and organizational cultures. Failure to overcome these limitations and difficulties may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully implement our organic growth strategy in Extrafarma, our future results of operations may not meet the expectations of investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares and ADSs. Our main growth strategy for Extrafarma consists of the accelerated opening of new drugstores in Brazil by leveraging our access to Ipiranga and Ultragaz resellers’ sites (service stations and LPG shops). Our ability to open new drugstores could be affected if we are unable to find enough appropriate outlets for new drugstores, or if the necessary investments to adapt the property to our needs are too high. Stricter regulations, including those relating to land use and zoning laws in the regions in which we operate may also result in increased expenses and make it more difficult to find suitable outlets for opening our drugstores. In addition, new or recently opened drugstores may not achieve maturity of its sales within the period we estimate. Also, our new or recently opened stores may adversely affect the profitability of our drugstores, what could adversely affect our business and our consolidated results. Moreover, personnel are a key success factor in the retail pharmacy sector, and we may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire, train or retain employees. Our business strategy will require the opening of new drugstores, heightening the need to hire, train and retain employees. Failure to do so may impair the process of opening new stores and our operating and financial results. Additionally, a shortage of pharmacists in Brazil as a result of continued robust market growth may result in increased wages or limit our ability to retain or recruit new pharmacists and, consequently, limit our ability to open new drugstores in the long term. Other risks associated with the opening of new drugstores include (i) entry of new competitors in the retail pharmacy sector, (ii) limited knowledge about the new regions where we may open new drugstores and (iii) decrease in demand for our products. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to implement our organic growth strategy with respect to Extrafarma and, therefore, our business and operating and financial results. This could lead to our failure to meet the expectations of investors and to meet our goals for the operating and financial results of our drugstore business. Rising climate change concerns could lead to additional regulatory measures that may result in increased costs of operation and compliance, as well as a decrease in demand for our products. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries, including Brazil, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to, among other things, reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements could reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shifting hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources. In addition many governments are providing tax advantages and other subsidies and mandates to make alternative energy sources more competitive against oil and gas. Governments are also promoting research into new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of 21 Table of Contents alternative energy sources, all of which could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may substantially increase our compliance costs and, as a result, increase the price of the products we produce or distribute. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Brazilian political and economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses and the market price of our shares and ADSs. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes substantial changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and affect other policies and regulations have involved price and wage controls, currency devaluations, capital controls, and limits on imports, among other measures. Our businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations involving or affecting tariffs, exchange controls and other matters, as well as factors such as: • currency fluctuations; • inflation; • interest rates; • price instability; • energy and water shortages and rationing; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • fiscal policy; and • other trade, political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government may implement changes in policy or regulation affecting these or other factors in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. These and other future developments in the Brazilian economy and government policies may adversely affect us and our businesses and results of operations and may adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs and shares. Furthermore, the Brazilian government may enact new regulations that may adversely affect us and our businesses. Inflation and certain governmental measures to curb inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and could harm our business and the market value of the ADSs and our shares. In the past, Brazil has experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation and some of the Brazilian government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Since the introduction of the Real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than that in previous periods. However, during the last several years, the economy has experienced increasing inflation rates and actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future governmental actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market. According to the Índice Geral de Preços-Mercado, or IGP-M, an inflation index, the Brazilian general price inflation rates were inflation of 5.5% in 2013, 7.8% in 2012, 5.1% in 2011, 11.3% in 2010 and deflation of 1.7% in 2009. From January 2014 to March 2014, IGP-M index was 2.5%. According to the Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or IPCA, an inflation index to which Brazilian government’s inflation targets are linked, inflation in Brazil was 5.9% in 2013, 5.8% in 2012, 6.5% in 2011, 5.9% in 2010 and 4.3% in 2009. From January 2014 to March 2014, inflation as measured by IPCA was 2.2%. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in the future. Our operating expenses are substantially in Reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation. Inflationary pressures may also hinder our ability to access foreign financial markets or may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could harm our business or adversely affect the market value of our shares and, as a result, our ADSs. Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our shares. During the last decades, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and a number of exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly, floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. Although over long periods depreciation of the Brazilian currency has been generally correlated with the rate of inflation in Brazil, there have historically been observed shorter periods of significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies, in particular in the last 10 years. 22 Table of Contents In 2009, the quick rebound of the Brazilian economy from the global financial crisis drove the inflow of foreign investments in the country, thus contributing to a 25% appreciation of the Real against the U.S. dollar in 2009 – the highest appreciation in the decade. In 2010, the effects of the strong economic growth in Brazil, together with the public offering of shares of Petrobras in the third quarter, resulted in a record of foreign investments inflow to Brazil, contributing to a 4% appreciation of the Real against the US dollar. In 2011, the unstable international economic environment, as a consequence of the European crisis, contributed to a 13% depreciation of the Real against the U.S. dollar for the year. In 2012, the effects of the lower economic growth, the lower interest rate and the unstable international scenario resulted in a 9% depreciation of the Real against the U.S. dollar. In 2013, the Real depreciated 15% against the U.S. dollar due to the performance of the Brazilian economy, the economic rebound of the United States and the economic instability in the international markets. From January 1, 2014 to April 17, 2014 the Real depreciated 4% against the U.S. dollar. See “Item 3.A. Key Information — Selected Consolidated Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” There are no guarantees that the exchange rate between the Real and the U.S. dollar will stabilize at current levels. Although we have contracted hedging instruments with respect to our existing U.S. dollar debt obligations, in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the dollar/Real exchange rate, we could in the future experience monetary losses relating to these fluctuations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk” for information about our foreign exchange risk hedging policy. Depreciations of the Real relative to the U.S. dollar can create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciations generally curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciations also reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our shares and, as a result, the ADSs. On the other hand, appreciation of the Real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. Although a large part of our sales is denominated in Reais, prices and certain costs in the chemical business (particularly ethylene and palm kernel oil, purchased by our subsidiary Oxiteno) are benchmarked to prices prevailing in the international markets. Hence, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our capacity to service our debt. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the results of our operations and the market price of the shares and ADSs. The market value of securities of Brazilian companies is affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises such as the global financial crisis started in 2008 may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including our shares and ADSs. This could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Our businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by a general economic downturn and by instability and volatility in the financial markets. The turmoil of the global financial markets and the scarcity of credit in 2008 and 2009, and to a lesser extent, the European crisis deteriorated in 2011, led to lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. An economic downturn could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our customers, which could in turn result not only in decreased demand for our products, but also increased delinquencies in our accounts receivable. Furthermore, an eventual new global financial crisis could have a negative impact on our cost of borrowing and on our ability to obtain future borrowings. The disruptions in the financial markets could also lead to a reduction in available trade credit due to counterparties’ liquidity concerns. If we experience a decrease in demand for our products or an increase in delinquencies in our accounts receivable, or if we are unable to obtain borrowings our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other relevant persons. We are a company incorporated under the laws of Brazil. All members of our Board of Directors, executive officers and experts named in this annual report are residents of Brazil or have business address in Brazil. All or a substantial part of the assets pertaining to these individuals and to Ultrapar are located outside the United States. As a result, it is possible that investors may not be able to effect service of process upon these individuals or us in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil, or enforce judgments against us or these other persons obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil, including for civil liability based upon United States federal securities laws or otherwise. In addition, because judgments of United States courts for civil liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our board of directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a United States corporation. Risks Relating to the Shares and the American Depositary Shares Asserting limited voting rights as a holder of ADSs may prove more difficult than for holders of our common shares. Under Brazilian Corporate Law, only shareholders registered as such in our corporate books may attend shareholders’ meetings. All common shares underlying the ADSs are registered in the name of the depositary bank. A holder of ADSs, accordingly, is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary bank as to how to vote the common shares underlying the ADSs in accordance with procedures provided for in the Deposit Agreement, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote directly at a shareholders’ meeting or appoint a proxy to do so. In addition, a holder of ADSs may not have sufficient or reasonable time to provide such voting instructions to the depositary bank in accordance with the mechanisms set forth in the Deposit Agreement and custody agreement, and the depositary bank will not be held liable for failure to deliver any voting instructions to such holders. Holders of our shares or ADSs may not receive dividends. Under our bylaws, unless otherwise proposed by the Board of Directors and approved by the voting shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, we must generally pay our shareholders a mandatory distribution equal to at least 50% of our adjusted net income. However, our net income may be capitalized, used to set off losses and/or otherwise retained in accordance with the Brazilian Corporate Law and may not be available for the payment of dividends, including in the form of interest on shareholders’ equity. Therefore, whether or not you receive a dividend depends on the amount of the mandatory distribution, if any, and whether the Board of Directors and the voting shareholders exercise their discretion to suspend these payments. See “Item 8.A. Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Dividend and Distribution Policy — Dividend Policy” for a more detailed discussion of mandatory distributions. Holders of our shares may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the shares. In the event that we issue new shares pursuant to a capital increase or offer rights to purchase our shares, shareholders would have preemptive rights to subscribe for the newly issued shares or rights, as the case may be, corresponding to their respective interest in our share capital, allowing them to maintain their existing shareholder percentage. However, our bylaws establish that the Board of Directors may exclude preemptive rights to the current shareholders or reduce the time our shareholders have to exercise their rights, in the case of an offering of new shares to be sold on a registered stock exchange or otherwise through a public offering. The holders of our shares or ADSs may be unable to exercise their preemptive rights in relation to the shares represented by the ADSs, unless we file a registration statement for the offering of rights or shares with the SEC pursuant to the United States Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements applies. We are not obliged to file registration statements in order to facilitate the exercise of preemptive rights and, therefore, we cannot assure ADS holders that such a registration statement will be filed. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in our company may be diluted. However, if the rights or shares, as the case may be, are not registered as required, the depositary will try to sell the preemptive rights held by holder of the ADSs and you will have the right to the net sale value, if any. However, the preemptive rights will expire without compensation to you should the depositary not succeed in selling them. 24 Table of Contents If shareholders exchange ADSs for shares, they may lose certain foreign currency remittance and Brazilian tax advantages. The ADSs benefit from the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration, which permits the depositary to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the shares into foreign currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you exchange your ADSs for shares, you will only be entitled to rely on the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, you will not be able to remit abroad non-Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under National Monetary Council Resolution 2,689, dated January 26, 2000, known as Resolution 2,689, which entitles certain investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate certificates of registration. If you do not qualify under Resolution 2,689, you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on distributions with respect to the shares. The depositary’s certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by you may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, and additional Brazilian law restrictions applicable to your investment in the ADSs may be imposed in the future. For a more complete description of Brazilian tax regulations, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — Brazilian Tax Consequences.” The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect you. Investing in securities, such as the shares or ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from more developed countries. For the reasons above, investments involving risks relating to Brazil, such as investments in ADSs, are generally considered speculative in nature and are subject to certain economic and political risks, including but not limited to: • changes to the regulatory, tax, economic and political environment that may affect the ability of investors to receive payments, in whole or in part, in respect of their investments; and • restrictions on foreign investment and on repatriation of capital invested. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. This may limit your ability to sell the shares underlying your ADSs at the price and time at which you wish to do so. The BM&FBOVESPA, the only Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of US$1.0 trillion as of December 31, 2013 and an average monthly trading volume of US$71 billion for 2013. In comparison, the NYSE had a market capitalization of US$18.0 trillion as of December 31, 2013 and an average monthly trading volume of US$0.7 trillion for 2013. There is also a large concentration in the Brazilian securities market. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented 51% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA as of December 31, 2013. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 40% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in 2013. Ultrapar’s average daily trading volume on both stock exchanges in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was, R$69.9 million, R$55.5 million and R$34.6 million, respectively. Controls and restrictions on the remittance of foreign currency could negatively affect your ability to convert and remit dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of our shares, Ultrapar’s capacity to make dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors and the market price of our shares and ADSs. Brazilian law provides that, whenever there is a serious imbalance in the Brazilian balance of payments or reasons for believing that there will be a serious imbalance in the future, the Brazilian government can impose temporary restrictions on remittances of income on investments by non-Brazilian investors in Brazil. The probability that the Brazilian government might impose such restrictions is related to the level of the country’s foreign currency reserves, the availability of currency in the foreign exchange markets on the maturity date of a payment, the amount of the Brazilian debt servicing requirement in relation to the economy as a whole, and the Brazilian policy towards the International Monetary Fund, among other factors. We are unable to give assurances that the Central Bank will not modify its policies or that the Brazilian government will not introduce restrictions or cause delays in payments by Brazilian entities of dividends relating to securities issued in the overseas capital markets up to the present. Such restrictions or delays could negatively affect your ability to convert and remit dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of our shares, Ultrapar’s capacity to make dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors and the market price of our shares and the ADSs. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to a disposition of our ADSs. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposal occurs outside or within 25 Table of Contents Brazil. In the event that the disposal of assets is interpreted to include a disposal of our ADSs, this tax law could result in the imposition of the withholding income tax on a disposal of our ADSs between non-residents of Brazil. See “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — Brazilian Tax Consequences — Taxation of Gains.” Substantial sales of our shares or our ADSs could cause the price of our shares or our ADSs to decrease. Shareholders of Ultra S.A., which own 22% of our shares, have the right to exchange their shares of Ultra S.A. for shares of Ultrapar and freely trade them in the market as more fully described under “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements.” Other shareholders, who may freely sell their respective shares, hold a substantial portion of our remaining shares. A sale of a significant number of shares could negatively affect the market value of the shares and ADSs. The market price of our shares and the ADSs could drop significantly if the holders of shares or the ADSs sell them or the market perceives that they intend to sell them. There may be adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are or become a PFIC under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. If we were characterized as a PFIC, in any year during which a U.S. Holder holds shares or ADSs, certain adverse U.S. federal tax income consequences could apply to that person. Based on the manner in which we currently operate our business, the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, and the current interpretation of the PFIC rules, we do not believe that we were a PFIC in 2013 and we do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, because PFIC classification is a factual determination made annually and is subject to change and differing interpretations, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. U.S. Holders should carefully read “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a description of the PFIC rules and consult their own tax advisors regarding the likelihood and consequences if we were treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 