ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The following important factors, among others, could adversely affect our stock price or cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Investors are urged to consider these risk factors when evaluating an investment in TMNG. 12 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK OPTION PRACTICES AND RELATED ACCOUNTING The matters relating to the investigation by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the restatement of the Company’s consolidated financial statements may result in litigation and governmental enforcement actions. On November 13, 2006, we announced that following an initial internal review of our stock option practices our Board of Directors had appointed a Special Committee of outside directors (the “Special Committee”) to conduct a full investigation of our past stock option and nonvested stock granting practices and related accounting (the “Independent Investigation”). We also announced that in light of the Special Committee’s review we would not be in a position to file the September 30, 2006 Form 10-Q on the due date therefor. On January 19, 2007, we announced that management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors had reached a preliminary conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for certain stock option grants and nonvested stock awards and that we may need to restate its historical financial statements. On April 4, 2007, we announced the completion of the Independent Investigation. See Note 2, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements,” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of this matter. As a result of the internal review and the Independent Investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors concurs, that we did not maintain adequate controls over our stock option and nonvested stock granting practices and procedures and that this failure resulted in the use of incorrect measurement dates for financial accounting purposes for a majority of stock option grants and nonvested stock awards made in prior periods. Effective controls, including monitoring and adequate communication, were not maintained to ensure the accuracy, correct valuation and proper presentation of activity related to our stock option and nonvested stock granting practices and procedures. The lack of effective controls resulted in misstatement of our stock-based compensation expense, additional paid-in capital, unearned compensation and related disclosures, and in the restatement of our previously filed annual and interim consolidated financial statements that was not prevented or detected. The required adjustments increased net loss by $0.4 million and $1.3 million in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. The cumulative effect of the error on the statement of operations for fiscal years prior to 2004 was $7.0 million. Between 1999 and 2006, most stock option grants, other than those made to executive officers and directors, were made by management under an apparent or de facto delegation of such authority by the Board of Directors. Our equity plans do not expressly authorize such delegation, and so it is not clear whether such delegation was permissible and in compliance with our equity plans. The Board of Directors, however, has determined that these will be recognized as valid option grants. The effects of related accounting errors on previously issued financial statements are included in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2006, in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and will be included in the amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the quarters ended April 1, 2006 and July 1, 2006 to be subsequently filed, in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles and SEC rules, regulations and guidance. The internal review, the Independent Investigation, and related activities have diverted management’s attention from the Company’s business, resulted in the payment of substantial fees and expenses to outside counsel and accountants, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the Company’s past stock option granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed the Company to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. While no litigation or formal enforcement proceedings have occurred as a result of these matters, we cannot assure that litigation or formal enforcement proceedings may not occur in the future. In accordance with provisions in our Bylaws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and executive officer employment agreements, we will be obligated to indemnify our directors and officers against liability and expenses in connection with these matters, unless any of these persons do not meet the conditions for 13 Table of Contents indemnification under these provisions. Fulfilling these obligations would increase our expenses and have an adverse effect on our cash reserves, results of operations and cash flows. We have identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls. As a result of the internal review and independent investigation, we have identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We have applied compensating procedures and processes as necessary to ensure the reliability of our financial reporting and are evaluating and intend to adopt measures designed to remediate this weakness, but there can be no assurance these measures will be effective. Planned improvements in our corporate governance, equity compensation practices and internal controls may not be effective. We are conducting a comprehensive evaluation of our corporate governance, equity compensation practices and internal controls in an effort to improve the quality and transparency of our corporate governance, compensation practices, internal controls and financial reporting. We are committed to the highest standards in these areas, but there can be no assurance the improvements we adopt will be effective to prevent similar occurrences in the future. Our ability to implement improvements in these areas may be limited by our human and financial resources. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is dependent on conditions in the communications industry, which may effect the demand for our services. We focus almost exclusively on customers in the converging communications, media and entertainment industry and investment banking and private equity firms investing in that industry. Factors outside of our control could cause companies to delay new product or business initiatives or to seek to control expenses by reducing the use of outside consultants. The communications industry is in a period of consolidation, which could reduce our client base, eliminate future opportunities, cause cancellations of client engagements or create conflicts of interest among clients. These trends could continue to harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to make acquisitions or raise capital. Future client financial difficulties and/or bankruptcies could require us to write-off receivables that are in excess bad debt reserves, which would harm our results of operations in future periods. Although, in 2006 we have seen increases in revenues as a result of our global acquisitions and investments in several key initiatives that have guided the evolution of our business — wireless technologies; voice, video and data convergence; and the migration of enterprises to IP-centric platforms. If we cannot continue to grow and capitalize on these opportunities or adapt to future changes in the communications industry, we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to cover our costs resulting in losses from operations and negative cash flow, which may eventually adversely affect our liquidity. We have experienced losses from operations, negative cash flow and reductions in our cash reserves. We incurred a net loss of $12.4 million and experienced an $11.3 million reduction in our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the year ended December 30, 2006. Although we saw significant increases in revenues in 2006 as a result of acquisitions and organic growth and implemented substantial reductions in our operating costs in the fourth quarter of 2006, our Adventis acquisition, continuing operating losses, employee severance costs and the expenses of the Independent Investigation resulted in significant reductions in our liquid assets. Although we had approximately $38.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and no long-term debt at December 30, 2006, if we do not achieve sustained profitable operations and positive cash flow, we could experience liquidity challenges at some future point. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of large clients for a major portion of our revenues, and the loss of a major client or the cancellation of a significant contract could substantially reduce revenues and harm our business and liquidity. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of clients (see Item 1, “Business-Major Customers”). This results in part from a conscious strategy to market our services to the largest and most stable companies in the industry, but our concentration of revenues with a small number of clients does expose us to risk. Our revenues and financial condition could be impaired if a major client stopped using our services. The services required by any one client may be affected by industry consolidation or adverse industry conditions, technological developments, economic slowdown or the client’s internal strategy or budget constraints. As a result, the volume of work performed for specific clients varies from period to period, and a major client in one period may not use our services in a subsequent period. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors. Any of these factors could adversely affect our stock price. Factors that could cause quarterly fluctuations include: • developments in the communications industry and economic conditions; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar; • global economic, industry and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; • the beginning and ending of significant contracts during a quarter; • the size and scope of assignments; • the potential loss of key clients or cancellation or deferral of significant engagements; • the form of customer contracts changing primarily from time and materials to fixed price or contingent fee, based on project results; • the loss of key management or consultants, which could cause clients to end their relationships with us; • the ability of clients to terminate engagements without penalty; • fluctuations in demand for our services resulting from client budget cuts, or project delays, industry consolidations or downturns or similar events; • reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; • seasonality during the summer, vacation and holiday periods, especially in Europe; • consultant utilization and billing rates; • expenses incurred in the independent investigation and the restatement of our financial statements; and, • our ability to integrate our Adventis and Cartesian acquisitions, and any impairment in the value of those investments. Because a significant portion of our non-consultant expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the number of client assignments or the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments may cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter and could result in continuing losses. To the extent the addition of consultant employees is not followed by corresponding increases in revenues, additional expenses would be incurred that would not be matched by corresponding revenues. Therefore, profitability would decline and we could potentially experience further losses. 15 Table of Contents There can be no assurance our investment in new offerings will yield the intended results. We have invested in personnel, practices and proprietary toolsets designed to enable us to capitalize on industry convergence and the migration to wireless and IP platforms. These investments had a positive impact on our 2006 revenues and we believe will positively impact our revenues and profitability in 2007, but they did adversely affect our short-term profitability in 2006. There can be no assurance these investments, or others like them, will continue to produce increased revenues or enable us to become profitable and cash flow positive in 2007 or future years. A significant portion of our business is represented by fixed fee contracts, which expose us to additional risks. Fixed fee contracts entail subjective judgments and estimates about revenue recognition and are subject to uncertainties and contingencies. For a more complete discussion of our accounting for revenue recognition, see “Critical Accounting Policies” included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Fixed fee contracts expose us to the risk that our cost of performing the contract may be higher than expected, reducing or eliminating our profit margin from the contract. Our acquisitions entail risks that could harm our financial performance or stock price. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions, including our acquisition of the international consulting business of Adventis in 2006 and our acquisition of Cartesian in 2007. These acquisitions are, and any future acquisition would be, accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions, including: • difficulty in integrating and managing the personnel and operations of acquired companies; • failure of the acquisition to achieve expected return on investments and planned synergies; • potential disruption of our existing business; • further reductions in our cash reserves; and, • adverse effects on our financial statements, including impairments, write-offs and assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses. Any future decrease in revenues of acquired businesses may result in asset impairments and adversely affect our profitability. As a result of acquisitions we have made, goodwill and intangible assets constitute a significant portion of the assets reported on our balance sheet. We have, in the past, been required to write down goodwill and intangible assets on our financial statements as a result of declining revenues and earnings of the businesses we acquire. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recognized a $2.1 million charge for the impairment of the carrying amount of our Adventis business. The impairment charge was the result of lower than expected operating results coupled with a reduction in the size and scope of operations which impacted our assessment of future cash flows of the Adventis business. We may continue to be required to take asset impairment charges in the future. Our earnings and profitability would be adversely affected by any further asset impairments. We implemented significant cost reductions which could adversely affect our ability to obtain and perform consulting engagements. In 2006, we undertook a series of cost-cutting measures designed to better align our operating costs with the demand for communications consulting services and return our Company to profitability. As part of these cost-cutting measures, we reduced our organic employee headcount. We have also expanded the skill sets of our consultant base by replacing existing consultants with professionals we believe are better suited to support our next generation offerings. Because the talents and skills of our consulting resources are limited in 16 Table of Contents comparison to much larger firms, we may lose opportunities to obtain future consulting engagements or have difficulty performing engagements we do obtain, any of which could harm our business. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive, and actions by competitors could render our services less competitive, causing revenues and income to decline. The market for consulting services to communications companies is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. Competitors include strategy and management consulting firms and major global outsourcing firms like IBM, Electronic Data Systems Corporation (EDS) and Computer Sciences Corporation, which have become more significant competitors recently due to the outsourcing of business support systems and operating support systems by communications companies. We are also subject to competition from large technical firms from the Asian markets, like Infosys Technologies, Ltd. that can provide significant cost advantages. Some of these competitors have also formed strategic alliances with communications and technology companies serving the industry. We also compete with internal resources of our clients. Although non-exhaustive, a partial list of our competitors includes: • Accenture; • Booz-Allen & Hamilton; • Cap Gemini; • DiamondCluster International, Inc.; • IBM; • EDS; • Computer Science Corporation; • Infosys Technologies, Ltd.; and • McKinsey & Company. Many information technology-consulting firms also maintain significant practice groups devoted to the communications industry. Many of these companies have a national and international presence and may have greater personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors. We believe our ability to compete depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the prices at which others offer competitive services, including aggressive price competition and discounting on individual engagements which may become increasingly prevalent in the current industry environment; • the ability and willingness of our competitors to finance customers’ projects on favorable terms; • the ability of our competitors to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns than we can; • the extent, if any, to which our competitors develop proprietary tools that improve their ability to compete with us; • the ability of our customers to perform the services themselves; and • the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to customer needs. We may not be able to compete effectively on these or other factors. If we are unable to compete effectively, our market position, and therefore our revenues and profitability, would decline. 17 Table of Contents We must continually enhance our services to meet the changing needs of the convergence of communications customers with media and entertainment, or we may lose future business to our competitors. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance existing services and to introduce new services to meet the requirements of customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market, particularly in the areas of wireless communications and next-generation technologies supporting the convergence of communications, media and entertainment. Present or future services may not satisfy the needs of the communications market. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to customer needs, we may lose business and our financial performance will suffer. If we are not able to effectively recruit and retain management and consulting personnel that provide us with new talent sets enabling the implementation of new strategic offerings in a rapidly changing market, our financial performance may be negatively impacted. Our ability to adapt to changing market conditions will depend on our ability to recruit and retain talented personnel, which cannot be assured. We may face two critical challenges in the recruitment of new management personnel. The first is the ability to recruit talented management personnel with the skill sets necessary to capitalize on an industry undergoing revolutionary change, and the second is the ability to execute such recruitment with an appropriate compensation arrangement. If we are unable to recruit and retain the people we need to perform our consulting engagements in a rapidly changing environment, our business may suffer. We must attract new consultants to implement our strategic plans. The number of potential consultants that meet our hiring criteria is relatively small, and there is significant competition for these consultants from direct competitors and others in the communications industry. Competition for these consultants may result in significant increases in our costs to attract and retain the consultants, which could reduce margins and profitability. In addition, we will need to attract consultants in international locations, principally Europe, to support our international strategic plans. We have limited experience in recruiting internationally, and may not be able to do so. Any inability to recruit new consultants or retain existing consultants could impair our ability to service existing engagements or undertake new engagements. If we are unable to attract and retain quality consultants, our revenues and profitability would decline. Our engagements with clients may not be profitable or may be terminated by our clients on short notice. Unexpected costs, delays or failure to achieve anticipated cost reductions could make our contracts unprofitable. We have many types of contracts, including time and materials contracts, fixed-price contracts and contingent fee contracts. When making proposals for engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the projects. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding our costs, as well as the efficiencies of our methodologies and professionals as we plan to deploy them on our projects. Any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost reductions in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. Under many of our contracts, the payment of some or all of our fees is conditioned upon our performance. We are increasingly moving away from contracts that are priced solely on a time and materials basis and toward contracts that also include incentives related to factors such as benefits produced. During fiscal year 2006, we estimate that approximately 42.4% of our revenue was generated through contracts that had some fixed-price, incentive-based or other pricing terms that conditioned some or all of our fees on our ability to deliver these defined goals. The trend to include greater incentives in our contracts may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts, and may expose us to greater risk of loss on the contracts if we do not perform successfully. Additionally, the estimates required for revenue recognition on these contracts expose us to the risk of misstatement of financial results if our estimates prove to be inaccurate. A majority of our contracts can be terminated by our clients with short notice and without significant penalty. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under 18 Table of Contents exclusive long-term contracts. A majority of our consulting engagements are less than 12 months in duration. The advance notice of termination required for contracts of shorter duration and lower revenues is typically 30 days. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts generally require a longer notice period for termination and may include an early termination charge to be paid to us. Additionally, large client projects involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the project, such as business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy in general. When contracts are terminated, we lose the associated revenues and we may not be able to eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our profit margins in subsequent periods may be lower than expected. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our pricing and utilization rates and control costs. Our profitability is largely a function of the rates we are able to obtain for our services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our professionals. If we do not maintain pricing for our services and an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals without corresponding cost reductions, our profitability will suffer. We are under increasing price competition from competitors, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our international operations expose us to a number of business and economic risks, which could result in increased expenses and declining profitability. As a result of our Adventis and Cartesian acquisitions, a substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign markets and a substantial portion of our revenues and costs are derived from our international business. Our international operations expose us to a number of business and economic risks, including: • unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates or fluctuations; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • competition from local and foreign-based consulting companies; • ability to protect our intellectual property; • unexpected changes in trading policies and regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainties inherent in transnational operations such as export and import regulations, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the impact of foreign laws, regulations and trade customs; • U.S. and foreign taxation issues; • operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • language and cultural differences; • changes in foreign communications markets; • increased cost of marketing to and servicing international clients; • potential limits on our ability to repatriate foreign profits; • general political and economic trends, including the potential impact of terrorist attack or international hostilities; and • expropriations of assets, including bank accounts, intellectual property and physical assets by foreign governments. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we may not be able to successfully execute our business plan in foreign markets. If we are unable to achieve anticipated levels of revenues from or efficiently manage our international operations, our overall revenues and profitability may decline. We are dependent on a limited number of key personnel, and the loss of these individuals could harm our competitive position and financial performance. Our business consists primarily of the delivery of professional services and, accordingly, our success depends upon the efforts, abilities, business generation capabilities and project execution of our executive officers and key consultants. Our success is also dependent upon the managerial, operational, marketing, and administrative skills of our executive officers, particularly Richard P. Nespola, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any executive officer, business unit manager or key consultant or group of consultants, or the failure of these individuals to generate business or otherwise perform at or above expectations, could result in a loss of customers or revenues or increases in expenses, any of which could harm our financial performance. If we fail to perform effectively on project engagements, our reputation, and therefore our competitive position and financial performance, could be harmed. Many of our engagements come from existing clients or from referrals by existing clients. Therefore, our growth is dependent on our reputation and on client satisfaction. The failure to perform services that meet a client’s expectations may damage our reputation and harm our ability to attract new business. If we fail to develop and maintain long-term relationships with our customers, our success would be jeopardized. A substantial majority of our business is derived from repeat customers. Future success depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop long-term relationships with successful communications providers who will give us new and repeat business. Inability to build long-term customer relationships could result in declines in our revenues and profitability. This may increasingly be the case with any further consolidation or contraction in the industry. We classify a large number of subcontractors as independent contractors for tax and employment law purposes. If these firms or personnel were to be reclassified as employees, we could be subject to back taxes, interest, penalties and other legal claims. We provide a significant percentage of consulting services through independent contractors and, therefore, do not pay Federal or state employment taxes or withhold income taxes for such persons. We generally do not include these independent contractors in our benefit plans. In the future, the Internal Revenue Service, or state authorities may challenge the status of consultants as independent contractors. Independent contractors may also initiate proceedings to seek reclassification as employees under state law. In either case, if persons engaged by us as independent contractors are determined to be employees by the Internal Revenue Service, any state taxation department, or a court, we would be required to pay applicable Federal and state employment taxes and withhold income taxes with respect to such contractors, and could become liable for amounts required to be paid or withheld in prior periods along with interest and penalties. In addition, we could be required to include such contractors in benefit plans retroactively and going forward. We could be subject to claims for professional liability, which could harm our financial performance. As a provider of professional services, we face the risk of liability claims. A liability claim brought against us could harm our business. We may also be subject to claims by clients for the actions of our consultants and employees arising from damages to clients’ business or otherwise, or clients may demand a reduction in fees because of dissatisfaction with our services or the services of our independent contractors. 20 Table of Contents Our inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and financial performance. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, parties, including former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our solutions or technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Unauthorized disclosure of our proprietary information could make our solutions and methodologies available to others and harm our competitive position. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK PRICE The market price of our common stock is volatile, and investors may experience investment losses. The market price of our common stock is volatile and has declined significantly from its initial public offering price. Our stock price could continue to decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • any failure to achieve sustained profitable operations and positive cash flow; • matters involving the independent investigation and restatement of our financial statements; • variations in quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations that could render our talent outdated; • any failure of our acquisitions to achieve their intended results; • market perceptions of and future trends in the communications industry; • future acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or others in the industry; • failure to achieve financial analysts’ or our own estimates of revenues or operating results; • our relatively small public float and the relatively low volume at which our stock trades; • changes in estimates of performance or recommendations by financial analysts; • any future reduction in our revenues; and • any future adverse market conditions in the communications industry or the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market itself experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations particularly affect the market prices of the securities of many technology and communications companies. These broad market fluctuations could continue to harm the market price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock falls below $1.00 per share for a period of 180 consecutive calendar days, we may risk being delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. Our market capitalization may also discourage analysts and investors from following us. Additionally, due to the limited public float of our common stock, investors may find their investment illiquid, and suffer losses. Because of our limited public float, our stock price can be susceptible to significant fluctuations based upon a comparatively low trading volume. Principal stockholders, executive officers and directors have substantial control over our voting stock. Executive officers, directors and stockholders owning more than five percent of our outstanding common stock (and their affiliates) own a majority of our outstanding common stock. If all such persons acted together, they would have the ability to control all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) and to control our management and affairs. Concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or 21 Table of Contents otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, any of which could be beneficial to our shareholders. Persons who control a substantial percentage of our common stock, including members of our Board of Directors, may experience conflicts between their own interests or the interests of their investors and the interests of our public shareholders. We may seek to raise additional funds, which may be dilutive to stockholders or impose operational restrictions. Although we have not been required to obtain new debt or equity financing to support our operations or complete acquisitions, we may decide or be required to raise new capital for these or other purposes in the future. There can be no assurances any such capital would be available to us on acceptable terms. Any additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our shareholders and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, which may limit our operating flexibility. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders may experience dilution in the voting power or net book value per share of their stock. Any additional equity securities could also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions and our right to issue preferred stock could make a third party acquisition difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, Bylaws, and anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company. In addition, our Bylaws provide for a classified board, with board members serving staggered three-year terms. The Delaware anti-takeover provisions and the existence of a classified board, in addition to our relatively small public float, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such transactions were in the best interest of our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 