Risk Factors In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section, in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks we face. If any of these risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. 22 Table of Contents We have historically incurred losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred losses for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $197 million. Since our current plans are focused on generating growth and launching new products in each of our segments, we expect that we will need to continue to invest significantly in sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and other expense areas, and the level of these investments may exceed our revenue. As a result, we may continue to experience losses and negative cash flows in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain profitability, or have continued losses, or have negative cash flows, may cause our stock price to decline and impair our business and financial prospects. We face risks related to the class action and derivative lawsuits. Certain former officers, independent directors and the Company have been named defendants in the pending Special Situations Fund class action lawsuit. In that lawsuit: the individual defendants have been dismissed without prejudice, the Company has admitted liability and the parties have reached a settlement agreement which the court has preliminarily approved. Should the settlement not reach final approval, the parties will revert to litigation on the question of damages. An unfavorable outcome in that lawsuit would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash position and could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial prospects. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws, and written indemnification agreements, we are generally obligated to indemnify, and advance legal fees and costs to, our directors and officers who are named defendants in the Special Situations Fund class action, and in any lawsuit the SEC may bring against former officers arising out of our 2004 financial restatements. We are unable to estimate our liability in these matters and aggregate liabilities could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For a further description of the nature and status of these legal proceedings see, “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” We face risks related to a formal investigation being conducted by the SEC. We have been cooperating with the SEC with respect to a formal order of investigation and subpoena regarding certain transactions in 2002 and 2003. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. An unfavorable outcome with respect to this investigation could cause our stock price to decline significantly. If the SEC finds wrongdoing on our part, a financial or administrative penalty may be imposed which could jeopardize our financial viability. Such findings could provide basis for additional lawsuits. Additionally, if the SEC pursues litigation against any of our former officers, the Company will have an obligation to pay the officer’s legal defense costs under Delaware indemnification requirements and existing indemnification agreements. These costs have been significant to this point and continued activity and costs could adversely impact results of operations. As we pursue our strategic initiatives, we are subject to risks that could impair our ability to maintain revenues or successfully implement our strategy. On August 31, 2006, we announced that we retained an investment bank to act as a financial advisor to assist us in exploring strategic initiatives to realize the Company’s potential and enhance shareholder value. These initiatives could include, but are not limited to, a recapitalization, strategic acquisition, and/or the combination, sale or merger of the Company or one or more of its divisions. Pursuit of strategic initiatives may cause existing employees to consider new opportunities, and it may be difficult to recruit new employees that are likely needed to support our growth initiatives. While we have taken steps to support employee retention as we go about the evaluation process, there can be no assurances that key employees will not leave the Company. If key employees were to leave the Company, it may impair our ability to meet commitments and sustain revenue. Additionally, strategic initiative activities will require us to incur significant expenses unrelated to normal business operations for retention incentives, legal, financial and tax advisory services. This process may divert management’s focus from maintaining and improving revenue and cash flows and could disrupt our ongoing business. We also face the risk that any transaction, if announced, may not close and, as a result, we may not be able to enhance shareholder value as a result of this strategy. 23 Table of Contents A contract with a major customer, the Medical University of South Carolina, expired on December 31, 2006. Failure to generate other sources of revenue to compensate for the resulting reduction in revenue and operating income, may adversely affect our future operating results. An ISD outsourcing contract with the Medical University of South Carolina, representing approximately $13.2 million or 16% of total Company revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, and approximately $2.3 million in gross profit, expired on December 31, 2006. Revenue from this customer represented approximately 15% and 16% of total Company revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We do not expect to replace the revenue and gross profit generated from the MUSC contract in 2007. To the extent that we do not replace the revenue, total revenue and operating income for ISD and the Company could be adversely impacted. We operate in an industry with rapidly changing technology and, if we do not successfully modify our products to incorporate new technologies or introduce new products, we may not be able to increase revenue or our revenue may decline. The software markets in which each of our divisions compete is characterized by (1) rapid technological change, (2) frequent introductions of new products, (3) changing customer needs, and (4) evolving industry standards. To keep pace, we must support existing products and develop new products. We may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products or new versions of our products. Additionally, we have limited capital resources to invest in new product development and we may not make effective investment decisions. Rogue Wave is depending on the success of its new Hydra suite of products for its future growth. Early Hydra customers may require us to prove the value and functionality of new products on a no-risk or low-risk basis, and the sales and support costs of the introductions may be substantial or exceed our expectations. Hydra may not perform as anticipated, and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. Customers may request or require significant new features or capabilities that early versions of the new products do not offer or may not be able to provide, potentially resulting in lengthened sales cycles or eliminating the new products as a viable option for consideration. Each of our divisions is dependent on government, industry or other third party organizations to determine requirements that may need to be incorporated into our software products. If we are not able to make the required changes in a timely manner to keep the software current with industry or government requirements, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, ISD success depends on organizations requiring information delivery, and seeking outside vendors to develop, manage and maintain their critical software applications. Many of our potential customers have made significant investments in internally developed systems and would incur significant costs in switching to our products, which may substantially inhibit the growth and sustainability of our business. These market factors may cause us to lose market share and our revenues would be adversely affected. Further, we may face significant competition from open source software offerings that are provided to users at no charge by competitors to ISD and Rogue Wave. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of new products and enhancements. In addition, our new products or enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, we may not be able to increase our revenue or our revenue may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We face increased competition in the marketplace and lengthening sales cycles in each of our divisions that could impact our operations negatively. Each of our divisions face competition for our products and services from several competitors, which include companies larger than us. Consolidation in the software industry has resulted in many of our competitors becoming part of larger companies and these large competitors have considerably more resources to draw on than we have. Our smaller size and limited resources negatively impact our ability to grow revenue and acquire new customers. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, we face lengthening sales cycles since launching several new products that are unproven in the market place. Goodwill, other intangible assets and capitalized software make up a significant portion of our total assets and are subject to recurring tests for impairment. We have a history of recording impairments for these assets and future impairments could adversely affect our operating results. Our goodwill balance at December 31, 2006 was $46.7 million and represented approximately 40% of total assets. Intangible assets from our acquisitions totaled $10.1 million, or approximately 9% of total assets at December 31, 2006. We are required to test goodwill annually, and other intangible assets periodically, for impairment and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate assets might be impaired. Risks described elsewhere in this section could adversely affect the value of our assets or our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which could result in the impairment of these assets. Capitalized software totaled $7.2 million at December 31, 2006, which is 6% of total assets. In assessing the recoverability of our existing capitalized software assets, we rely on estimates and judgments to determine the net realizable value of each product. When evaluating the net realizable value of a given product, we prepare a forward-looking business case that is comprised of an assessment of future revenue to be generated. If the net realizable value is less than the carrying value, an impairment is recorded. Our ability to estimate future expected revenues and benefits with a measured degree of probability is the most significant factor in our estimate of recoverability. If our ability to estimate the expected future benefits changes significantly in any given period, we could record impairment charges for certain assets and our operating results could be adversely affected. If the projected revenues do not cover the value of the capitalized software, the asset must be impaired. In 2004, we recorded a write down of capitalized software in our ISD division of $4.8 million. We face saturated or diminishing markets for some of our key products. Our core product offering from ISD, the CLOVERLEAF® product suite, is sold primarily to the healthcare industry. Segments of this market are close to saturation, and therefore revenues may decrease within this market segment. While the CLOVERLEAF® product suite remains competitive, the existing domestic market is becoming saturated and we may need to sell our products and solutions in new geographic areas and develop new solutions with our customers that leverage the assets of our CLOVERLEAF® product suite in order to sustain and grow revenue. The primary development tools sold by Rogue Wave Software, the SourcePro and Stingray tools, target the C++ programming language, which is diminishing in usage when compared with other programming languages such as Java. In such circumstances, customers may elect to acquire “end of life” rights to the products, paying a one-time fee for perpetual future use. Customers who elect this option no longer have an obligation to pay for the continuing updates and support fees, thereby reducing recurring revenue for Rogue Wave. We expect to launch new products to offset anticipated declines and enable growth at Rogue Wave, which could create internal competition with existing products, diminish existing revenue streams and negatively impact our revenue. A significant portion of our recurring revenue comes from maintenance agreements that require periodic renewals. Our ability to sustain recurring revenue is largely dependent on retaining current customers under maintenance and ASP agreements. Revenue from maintenance agreements is included in recurring services revenue and represented 27% of the total Company revenue for the years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. For software licensed under a perpetual license agreement, customers have the option to continue to utilize software without renewing maintenance and support. Electing to not renew maintenance and support will keep them from receiving current releases, bug fixes, telephone support and other post contract support. If we cannot maintain renewal rates we will not be able to sustain and increase recurring revenue. The ASP revenue represented 9%, 8% and 7% of the total revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. ASP revenue is primarily related to the CareScience division. 25 Table of Contents ISD and Rogue Wave rely on the effectiveness of channel partners and third-party influencers to help achieve revenue goals. If we fail to maintain and expand these types of relationships, our business may suffer. Relationships with new and established channel partners have been, and will continue to be critical to our future success. These relationships include independent software vendor, distributor, co-marketer and system integrator relationships. We rely on these partners to assist us in generating increased acceptance and use of our applications, services, and product offerings. We have established a number of these relationships, and our growth depends on establishing new relationships and maintaining existing ones. Our Rogue Wave Software division relies on channel partners to sustain SourcePro sales and plans to leverage these relationships to help launch Rogue Wave Hydra in the market. Our Integration Solutions division also relies significantly on third-party relationships to grow sales and increase market share. Certain channel partners may not view their relationships with us as significant to their own businesses, and they may reassess their commitment to us or decide to compete directly with us in the future. We generally do not have agreements that prohibit the other parties from competing against us directly or from contracting with our competitors. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that any channel partner will perform its obligations as agreed or that we would be able to specifically enforce any agreement with them. Our failure to maintain and expand these relationships may adversely impact our future revenue. We rely on third party distributors for ISD and Rogue Wave to report their sales of our software license products accurately and on a timely basis in order to report revenue accurately. If they do not report sales of our products to us accurately and in a timely manner our ability to recognize revenue in the appropriate period may be impacted and we risk fluctuations in our revenues. ISD and Rogue Wave contract with third party distributors to sell our products to their customers. The Company relies upon the resellers to report sales of licenses accurately and on a timely basis. Third party resellers may not report sales to the Company in a timely manner or the reports may later be found by the Company to be inaccurate. In these instances, the Company recognizes revenue in the period the sales are initially reported or later accurately reported to the Company, provided all revenue recognition criteria have been met. As a result, our revenue may fluctuate between periods, or we may not realize revenue at all if our distributors fail to report, or under report sales, and our monitoring procedures do not detect the non-compliance. Revenue from our international operations in ISD and Rogue Wave has historically been significant and we hope to increase our international revenue going forward. As a result, we may become subject to additional uncertainties in the international marketplace which could adversely affect our operating results. Revenue from our international operations for ISD and Rogue Wave products and services accounted for 15%, 15%, and 12% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. Our current strategy relies upon continued penetration of international market opportunities by ISD and Rogue Wave. If we are successful in doing so, our exposure will increase the risks inherent in conducting business internationally including, fluctuation in currency exchange rates, taxation laws, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. In addition, expanding our international operations will increase our exposure to other risks and uncertainties: • Our core products contain strong encryption technology that is subject to export control regulation. These regulations prohibit us from selling in certain countries and to certain persons. Our inadvertent failure to properly restrict our sales could subject us and our management to fines and other sanctions and impair our financial condition and our reputation. • We face increased uncertainty of enforcement of contractual provisions and enforcement of judgments in our dealings with non-U.S. persons. Our inability to properly defend or enforce our contract rights could materially impair our business prospects and financial condition. • Our sales and marketing activities subject us to stringent privacy regulation that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction making compliance difficult. Our inability to comply with these regulations could subject us to sanctions that could impair our ability to effectively market our products and sell in the international marketplace. 26 Table of Contents We are exposed to infringement risks. Our intellectual property is central to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and the functionality of our applications overlaps with competitive offerings. Additionally, we are subject to infringement claims by companies that purchase patents and use them to aggressively assert superior rights — so-called “patent trolls.” These claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and damages, divert our attention from operating our company, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event an intellectual property claim against us were to be successful and we could not obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or redesign to avoid infringement, most of our contracts would require us to refund a portion of the software license fees, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed. In addition, we may not be able to protect against misappropriation of our intellectual property. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights, we may not detect this unauthorized use and we may be unable to enforce our rights. We rely on third parties for technology in our products. We depend upon third-party suppliers and licensors to provide software that is incorporated into certain of our products and the products that we distribute. Additionally, some of the intellectual property used in CareScience products that are critical to our business are subject to an exclusive license from the University of Pennsylvania. While we have historically enjoyed collaborative and cooperative relationships with these third parties, our ability to influence these third parties in terms of resource allocation, deliverable timelines and quality of work as it relates to our specific requirements may be adversely impacted in the future. Additionally, the third-party software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our agreements to license certain third-party software will terminate after specified dates unless they are renewed. If we were to have a dispute with a third party regarding our rights under an agreement, the third party may have the right to terminate our use of such software and/or obtain damages. We expect to sell multiple products to the same customers and problems with the third party technology in one product may adversely affect sales of other products to the same customer. Certain products that we use include so called “open source” software. In some cases open source software imposes on us certain requirements to license others both the open source software as well as software that relates to, interacts with, or that is a derivative work of the open source software. These open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products, including the obligation to make source code available. Because open source software is generally available, it cannot be protected as a trade secret and competitors and others would have access to such software and the right to modify or distribute such software. Also, in many instances where we obtain open source software, we would not be able to determine if the provider of such code has legal right to provide such code to us under the open source license terms. Our products may be affected by unknown software defects. Our products depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Complex software often contains defects, particularly when first introduced or when enhancements or new versions are released. Although we conduct extensive testing, we may not discover software defects that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed. To date, we have not experienced any material software defects, however despite continued testing, defects may occur in our software. These defects could cause performance interruptions, which could damage our reputation with existing or potential customers, increase our service costs, cause us to lose revenue, delay market acceptance or divert our development resources, any of which could cause our business to suffer. In particular, we market software products in ISD and CareScience that are designed to assist our healthcare customers in meeting their HIPAA compliance obligations. Failure of these products to perform as intended could 27 Table of Contents cause our customers to incur significant fines and penalties for non-compliance, which in turn could result in damages and claims against us. Additionally, system failures or failure by our service providers may cause service interruptions to our transaction customers in CareScience and could damage customer relations. Our contracts generally limit our liability arising from our errors; however, these provisions may not be enforceable and may not adequately protect us from liability. While we have general liability insurance that we believe to be adequate, including coverage for errors and omissions, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on reasonable terms in the future. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover large claims and our insurer could disclaim coverage on claims. If we are liable for an uninsured or underinsured claim or if our premiums increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to recruit and retain key employees who are essential to our operations. We rely on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. Key employees may leave our employ for other opportunities and we may experience difficulty in recruiting new employees to replace them, especially since our announcement in August of 2006, that we were exploring strategic alternatives. We continue to incur losses each year and the size of the Company as compared to other companies that compete with us for qualified employees may inhibit our ability to retain and recruit key employees. In addition, we have historically used equity incentive programs, such as employee stock options and stock purchase plans, as a component of overall employee compensation arrangements. Changes in these programs which we have recently adopted in response to business conditions and new accounting rules may decrease the value of these equity incentives to our current and prospective employees and potentially impair our ability to retain and recruit key employees. If we can not retain or recruit key employees our ability to sustain revenue will be negatively impacted. We could incur liabilities related to the regulation, use and misuse of information. Many aspects of our business relate to the use, sharing and processing of information, particularly in ISD and CareScience. As a result, we are subject to many regulations, including the Health Insurance and Accountability Act of 1996 and other privacy regulations that are designed to protect the privacy and prevent the misuse of personal information in the marketplace. Our operations involve collecting data, processing data and redistributing data, including data that we receive from third parties. As a result, we may become involved in any matter relating to the misuse of such data and we may incur liability for any such misuse of that information by other parties simply as a result of our involvement in the process. The data privacy and security regulatory environment is rapidly changing. We may not be able to comply with changes in the regulatory environment in an efficient, cost-effective manner. Security breaches in our facilities, computer network and databases, or third-party facilities used for data processing and managed services, may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Many security measures have been instituted to protect the systems and to assure the marketplace that these systems are secure. If users gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential third-party information that is stored or transmitted on our databases. In addition, misuse by our customers of our information services could harm our business and reputation, result in loss of customers and expose us to liability. If security of our customer and patient information were to be compromised, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could suffer. We retain confidential customer and patient information in our processing centers. Therefore, it is critical that our facilities and infrastructure, or third-party facilities used for data processing and managed services, remain secure and that these facilities and infrastructure are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Additionally, HIPAA imposes security requirements. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If we fail to meet our clients’ or regulatory expectations, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could suffer. Our insurance may not protect us from this risk. 28 Table of Contents If compliance with government regulation of healthcare becomes more costly and difficult for our customers, we may be unable to increase revenue in ISD and CareScience. Participants in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulation under numerous federal, state and local laws. Some of these laws apply directly to our business; many others indirectly affect the way we do business. Our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions service providers, and payer customers are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of our business relationships with them. The healthcare market is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations. Changes in current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 or MMA, as well as changes in healthcare administration and communications requirements, such as HIPAA, have in the past and may continue to cause us to make unplanned enhancements of software applications or services, result in delays or cancellations of orders, or result in the revocation of endorsement of our applications and services by healthcare participants. The immediate and long term effect of the laws such as MMA and HIPAA is difficult to predict. Our success depends on our ability to develop and maintain strategic alliances that will allow us to anticipate industry changes and enable us to position the CareScience division products accordingly. Our products and services may not adequately address the business and compliance needs created by these and other enactments, and we may be unable to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare market participants operate. At present, there is renewed and increasing interest in healthcare at the federal and state levels, including the implementation of national and/or regional healthcare interoperability initiatives and the revamping of the scope or manner of coverage by state and federal health care programs. Our interoperability solutions may not be the technology that will be selected by these initiatives. Healthcare market participants may respond to anticipated change in these areas by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our applications and services. We do not know what affect these or other proposals would have on the business of ISD and CareScience. The uncertainty over if, when, and in what form any such proposals would be implemented could have a negative impact on our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions business as customers may choose to wait to see the final form of any such legislation or regulations and/or demand guarantees or other concessions related to potential changes. If we do not establish and maintain our brands, our reputation could be adversely affected. In order to increase our customer base, we must establish, maintain and strengthen our brands. For us to be successful in establishing our respective corporate and divisional brands, professionals in healthcare, financial services, telecommunications, information technology and other targeted markets must perceive us as offering high quality, cost-effective, reliable products and related services, including consulting, implementation, education, hosting, maintenance and support. Our reputation and brand names could be harmed if we experience difficulties introducing new product and service offerings, such as the launch of Rogue Wave Hydra. Additionally brand names and reputation could be harmed if these offerings are not accepted by customers and/or distribution channel partners, if we are required to discontinue existing offerings or if our products and services do not function as represented. We have risk in sustaining professional service revenue in our markets. We have recently experienced declines in services revenue and the decline may continue or accelerate which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We realize a significant percentage of revenue in ISD from professional services, which typically have lower margins than our software license and maintenance revenues. A significant portion of ISD professional services revenue is generated from implementation services for software license customers. Recent growth in our software license revenue has come from indirect channels that 29 Table of Contents historically have not generated the same degree of related professional services revenue. Professional services is a very competitive market that is highly dependent on the quality of our staff, pricing and reputation. ISD typically faces much larger competitors in this segment of the business, who have considerably more resources than we have. ISD also faces competition from smaller private companies that can be more cost competitive. Our vulnerability to competition could result in further declines in our services revenue. In addition, professional service development projects require close collaboration with the client, particularly in managing the change-order process, and present factors that are often outside of our control. The length and nature of these projects expose us to the risks of not completing the project on time or at all, of not meeting client expectations, or not staying within budget, any of which may cause customers to delay payment for work performed or could lead to complex and expensive litigation, any of which could have a material adverse affect on revenue, cause the margin for these projects to decrease, and negatively impact our ability to grow this segment of our business. We are regulated by the federal and state governments and compliance with current and future labor laws may impact our earnings. Federal and state laws govern our relationships with employees, including the Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, employment tax rates, family leave, working conditions, safety standards and citizenship requirements. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. All Company operations are believed to be in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, but changes or different interpretations of the laws could affect our compliance and result in an action against us that could materially adversely affect our financial position. Our stock price has traded well below the $5.00 per share minimum threshold established by many institutional investors as criteria for ownership. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: • A relatively small float and low trading volume in our shares; • A change in analyst coverage; • Changes to the Company’s plan and/or prospects; • Sales of our common stock by large, institutional investors; and • Ownership of our common stock by hedge funds with high turnover rates. The continued low trading price of our stock may constrain our ability to issue stock for cash or make acquisitions. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the Board of Directors will be divided into three classes, each consisting, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors, with each class having a three-year term. Stockholders may take action only at a stockholders’ meeting and not by written consent. Our bylaws provide that stockholders wishing to nominate a director at a meeting or to bring business before any meeting of stockholders must comply with strict advance written notice provisions. Our bylaws also provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our Board of Directors, or certain of our officers, or by resolution of our directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions are intended to enhance the likelihood of continuity and stability in the composition of our Board of Directors and in the policies formulated by our Board of 30 Table of Contents Directors. We also intended these provisions to discourage certain types of transactions that may involve an actual or threatened change of control. As a consequence, they may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our shares that could result from actual or rumored takeover attempts. Such provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. In 2000, we adopted a stockholder rights plan and distributed a dividend for each share of common stock. This dividend took the form of a right, which entitles the holders to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock. In certain events after the rights become exercisable they will entitle each holder, other than the acquirer, to purchase, at the rights’ then current exercise price, a number of shares of common stock having market value of twice the rights’ exercise price or a number of the acquiring company’s common shares having a market value at the time of twice the rights’ exercise price. The adoption of the rights plan makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 