Item1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements). These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the events in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in the Bank’s market area. The current economic recession in the market area we serve may continue to impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan portfolio. Our primary market area is concentrated in north central and eastern Indiana. Adverse economic conditions in that market area can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers’ ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Our market area is undergoing a recession, which has resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures, decreased demand for our products and services and a decline in the value of our loan collateral. If this recession continues or becomes more severe, this negative impact on our business, financial condition and earnings may increase. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, these efforts may not succeed in restoring industry, economic or market conditions and may result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including the Company, are numerous and include (i) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (ii) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (iii) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (iv) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (v) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and 31 · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; · evaluation of non-performing loans; · historical default and loss experience; · historical recovery experience; · existing economic conditions; · risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and · the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.5% of gross loans held for investment and 50.4% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2009. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than that of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. Our provision for loan losses has increased substantially and additional increases in the provision and loan charge-offs may be required, adversely impacting operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $6.5 million compared to $7.0 million for the 2008 fiscal year. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $5.2 million in 2009, compared to $3.2 million in 2008. During 2008 and 2009, we have experienced increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, nonperforming loans increased from $21.8 million at the end of 2008 to $32.6 million at the end of 2009. If the declining trends in the housing, real estate and local business markets continue, we expect increased levels of delinquencies and credit losses to continue, which adversely impacts our financial condition and results of operations. 32 If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned (“REO”), and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulator periodically reviews our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized a $5.3 million non-cash other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities we hold for investment. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of these securities were $2.8 million. Management concluded that the decline of the estimated fair value below the cost of the security was other than temporary and recorded a credit loss of $2.6 million through non-interest income. We determined the remaining decline in value was not related to specific credit deterioration. We do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more than likely than not we will be required to sell the securities before anticipated recovery of the remaining amortized cost basis. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting. Our valuation of our securities will be influenced by the default rates of specific financial institutions whose securities provide the underlying collateral for these securities. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in these securities by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of these or other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, shareholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2009, $578.1 million, or 53.6% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans (including home equity lines of credit). This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Indiana housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our substantial number of multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer and commercial business loans. Approximately 46.4% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009, consisted of multi-family, commercial real estate, construction, consumer (non-mortgage) and commercial business loans. Multi-family, commercial and construction real estate loans accounted for approximately 25.0% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Our commercial business and consumer (non-mortgage) loans accounted, respectively, for approximately 7.2% and 14.2% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. For further information concerning the risks associated with multi-family, commercial real estate, consumer loans and commercial business loans, see “Lending Activities” and “Asset Quality” in Item 1. 33 Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest we receive on loans and investments that we make than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage our interest rate risk effectively, which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and “Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk” in Item 7A. We face risks related to covenants in our loan sales to investors and secondary mortgage market conditions. Our agreements with investors to sell our loans generally contain covenants that require us to repurchase loans under certain circumstances, including some delinquencies, or to return premiums paid by those investors if the loans are paid off early. If we are required to repurchase sold loans under these covenants, they may be deemed troubled loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision changes, which could impact our earnings and asset quality ratios adversely. The Bank was not required to repurchase any loans from our investors during 2009. Our ability to sell loans on the secondary mortgage market is impacted by interest rate changes and investor demand or expected return. If this market becomes less liquid, we may not be able to rely as much on loan sales to reduce our interest rate and credit risk. Declining economic conditions may adversely impact the fees generated by our asset management and trust business. To the extent our asset management and trust clients and their assets become adversely impacted by weak economic and stock market conditions, they may choose to withdraw the assets managed by us and the value of their assets may decline. Our asset management revenues are based on the value of the assets we manage. If our clients withdraw assets or the value of their assets decline, our revenues from these activities may be adversely affected. We face significant operational risks. We operate in many different financial service businesses and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 34 We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to repay our TARP funds, support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. 35 The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. Our core deposit premium could be deemed partially or fully impaired, which could reduce our earnings and the values of that intangible asset. At December 31, 2009, we had a core deposit premium of $5.9 million due mainly to the MFB acquisition. Under GAAP, we are required to periodically assess the value of this intangible asset based on a number of factors to determine if there is partial or full impairment. The factors taken into consideration include the market price of our stock, the net present value of our assets and liabilities and valuation information for similar financial institutions. This evaluation involves a substantial amount of judgment. If actual conditions underlying the factors differ from our assessment, the core deposit intangible could be subjected to faster amortization or partial or complete impairment, which would reduce the value of this asset and reduce our earnings, perhaps materially. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2009, we held $93.5 million of bank-owned life insurance or BOLI on key employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $44.2 million. The policies are maintained to fund amounts owed under executive supplemental retirement plans. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax asset fully. At December 31, 2009, we had a $19.5 million deferred income tax benefit based on differences between the financial statement amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities and reflecting mainly an allowance for loan loss timing difference and business tax and AMT carryover. The value of our deferred income tax benefit is reviewed regularly under various forecasts and assumptions, including anticipated levels of taxable net income, to determine the likelihood of realizing the benefit. If actual results or subsequent forecasts differ from our current judgments, so that this benefit will not be fully realized, we would have to write down this asset, which would negatively impact results of operation and reduce our asset size. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2009, we owned $18.6 million in Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our Federal Home Loan Bank. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our Federal Home Loan Bank, which currently is not redeeming any excess member stock. Our Federal Home Loan Bank’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our Federal Home Loan Bank stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. 36 We operate in a highly regulated environment and our operations and income may be affected adversely by changes in laws and regulations governing our operations, including regulatory reform initiatives of the Obama administration that are pending in Congress. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. These regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. For example, initiatives to limit our fees on overdraft protection programs or our creditor rights could impact our fee income or ability to resolve problem assets. Pending regulatory reform legislation proposed by the Obama administration and under consideration by Congress, if enacted, could change our primary regulator, create a new consumer finance protection agency, change the Company into a bank holding company with new capital requirements and require MutualBank to convert to a different charter. These changes could possibly adversely impact our operations and net income. Our earnings are adversely impacted by increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for fiscal 2009 was $2.3 million, including the special assessment of $630,000 recorded in June 2009 and paid on September 30, 2009. Additionally, in November 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that requires each financial institution to prepay its estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which will be amortized over these periods and adjusted for changes in premium levels or our financial condition. As a result, this prepayment will not immediately impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. 37 The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 23, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of MutualFirst Financial. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 8.2% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock before December 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock before December 2013, the cost of the TARP capital will increase substantially from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.6 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $2.9 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on dividends from MutualBank for substantially all of the Company’s revenue. MutualFirst’s primary source of revenue is dividends from the Bank. The OTS regulates and must approve the amount of Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, MutualFirst may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers for our common stock at any given time. This presence is impacted by general economic and market conditions and investors’ views of our Company. Because our trading volume is limited, any significant sales of our shares could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers have the ability to influence stockholder actions in a manner that may be adverse to the personal investment objectives of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned 1,291,870 shares, or 18.5%, of our common stock (including options for 417,390 shares). In addition, our employee stock ownership plan and charitable foundation controlled, respectively, 7.2% and 3.2% of our common stock on that date. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, 314,702 shares were reserved under various stock benefit plans for future awards for our directors, officers and employees. Due to this significant collective ownership of or control over our common stock, our directors and executive officers may be able to influence the outcome of director elections or block significant transactions, such as a merger or acquisition, or any other matter that might otherwise be favored by other shareholders. 38 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 