ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed and the trading price of our common stock could further decline. You should also refer to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Going Concern and Future Capital Requirements As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company has incurred losses from operations and negative cash flows over the last three years. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As previously announced, we are taking a series of operational rebalancing actions during 2006 to allow for more patient growth with respect to our lifecycle management programs. In the first quarter of 2006 we expect to complete the elimination of 70-80 positions and to record related severance charges and make cash payments of $1.5 to $2.0 million. Also in the first quarter of 2006 we expect to incur specific costs and cash payments related to consolidation of facilities and the reduction of other overhead costs. Additionally, our 2006 business plan (the “Plan”) has been revised downward in conjunction with our decision to rebalance our business. The goal of our rebalancing effort is to reduce our costs so that we achieve quarterly break-even at revenue levels of $16-$18 million per quarter. Our Plan contains aggressive cost reduction targets based upon our planned rebalancing efforts. There can be no assurance that the rebalancing efforts will be successful or that the cost reduction targets or revenue levels will be achieved, which could result in continued operating losses, and consumption of working capital and our cash and short term investment balances. At December 31, 2005, we had $6.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $11.2 million in short-term investments. We do not currently plan to pay dividends, but rather to retain earnings for use in the operations of our business and to fund future growth. We had no long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005. We believe that cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from short-term investments and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot provide assurance that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than we currently expect. We may need to raise additional funds through capital market transactions, asset sales or financing from third parties or a combination thereof to: • Take advantage of business opportunities, including, but not limited to, more international expansion or acquisitions of complementary businesses; • Develop and maintain higher inventory levels; • Gain access to new product lines; • Develop new services; • Respond to competitive pressures; or • Fund general operations. We cannot provide assurance that additional sources of funds will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our business could suffer if the inability to raise such funding threatens our ability to execute our business growth strategy. Availability of additional funds may be adversely affected because the Company’s recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are disclosed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Moreover, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage of ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced. Newly issued equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of investors in our common stock. In addition, the terms of any debt could impose restrictions on our operations or capital structure. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate in future periods, which might lead to reduced prices for our stock. Our annual or quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our annual or quarterly operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our stock could significantly decline. Factors that could impact our operating results include: • the rate, timing and volume of orders for the telecommunications infrastructure equipment and services we sell; • the rate at which telecommunications operators de-install their equipment; • decreases in our selling prices due to competition in the secondary market, price pressure from OEMs or other competitors; • our ability to obtain products cost-effectively from OEMs, distributors, operators and other secondary sources of telecommunications equipment; • our ability to provide equipment and service offerings on a timely basis to satisfy customer demand; • variations in customer capital spending patterns due to seasonality, economic conditions for telecommunications operators and other factors; • write-offs due to inventory defects or obsolescence; • the sales cycle for services we sell, which can be relatively lengthy, especially as it relates to our lifecycle management services offering; • delays in the commencement of our operations in new market segments and geographic regions; • costs relating to possible acquisitions and integration of new businesses, including, but not limited to, costs associated with acquisitions that we elect not to pursue; • delays or concerns resulting from or related to completed and/or impending consolidation of telecommunications operators; • the ability to retain top brokers; 5 Table of Contents • the speed of adoption of RecoveryPLUS in our customer’s organizations; and • impacts of rebalancing our operations and the ability to match supply with demand. Our business depends upon our ability to match third party re-used equipment supply with telecommunications operators’ demand for this equipment. Our success depends on our continued ability to match the equipment needs of telecommunications operators with the supply of re-used equipment available in the secondary market. We depend upon maintaining business relationships with third parties who can provide us with re-used equipment and information on available re-used equipment. Failure to effectively manage these relationships and match the needs of our customers with available supply of re-used equipment could damage our ability to generate net revenue or increase our expenses. In the event operators decrease the rate at which they de-install their networks, choose not to de-install their networks at all, or choose to sell or otherwise provide re-used equipment to others, it would be more difficult for us to locate this equipment, which could negatively impact our net revenue. Our net inventory balance was $15.2 million at December 31, 2005. Our ability to meet customer demand and the growth of our net revenue could be harmed if we are unable to manage our inventory and other assets needs accurately. We believe it is necessary to maintain or increase some levels of inventory and other assets. Failure to maintain adequate inventory levels in these products could hurt our ability to make sales to our customers. In the past, we have experienced inventory shortfalls on certain high demand equipment and we cannot be certain that we will not experience such shortfalls again in the future, which could harm our ability to meet customer demand. Further, rapid technology advancement could make portions of our existing inventory obsolete and cause us to incur losses. In addition, if our forecasts lead to an accumulation of inventories that are not sold in a timely manner, our business could suffer. Also, we have accumulated other assets for one customer that has notified us of its belief that we have not met certain performance requirements. We do not have many formal relationships with suppliers of telecommunications equipment and may not have access to adequate product supply. In fiscal year 2005, 66.2% of our net revenue was generated from the sale of re-used telecommunications equipment. Typically, we do not have supply contracts to obtain this equipment and are dependent on the de-installation of equipment by operators to provide us with much of the equipment we sell. Our ability to buy re-used equipment from operators, distributors and secondary market dealers is dependent on our relationships with them. If we fail to develop and maintain these business relationships with operators or if they are unwilling to sell re-used equipment to us, our ability to sell re-used equipment will suffer. In addition, in 2005, one supplier accounted for 26.0% of our equipment purchases. If we are unable to continue to purchase a significant portion of our equipment from these suppliers, then our equipment costs could increase, thereby adversely impacting our operating results. Further, our net revenue is dependent on the sale of new equipment as well as re-used equipment. In the second quarter of 2005, we were informed that a supplier that accounted for 14.8% of 2004 equipment purchases and 26.0% of our 2005 equipment purchases had declared bankruptcy. If we are unable to continue to purchase equipment from this supplier on acceptable terms or at all, or if our customers are no longer willing to purchase products produced by this supplier due to the bankruptcy or other reasons, then our operating results would be adversely affected. Defects in the equipment we sell or failure to perform services at a high level of performance may seriously harm our credibility and our business. Telecommunications operators require a strict level of quality and reliability from telecommunications equipment and service suppliers. Telecommunications equipment is inherently complex and can contain undetected software or hardware errors. If we deliver telecommunications equipment with undetected material defects, or if we perform services at lower than expected quality levels, our reputation, credibility and sales could suffer. Moreover, because the equipment we sell is integrated into our customers’ networks, it can be difficult to identify the source of a problem should one occur. The occurrence of such defects, errors or failures or failure to perform services adequately could also result in delays in installation, product returns, product liability and warranty claims and other losses to us or our customers. In some of our contracts, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against liabilities arising from defects in the equipment or services we sell to them. Furthermore, we supply most of our customers with warranties that cover the equipment and services we offer. While we may carry insurance policies covering these possible liabilities, these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. A material product liability claim, whether successful or not, could be costly, damage our reputation and distract key personnel, any of which could harm our business. Our strategy to outsource services could impair our ability to deliver our equipment on a timely basis. While we have expanded our services capability, we still currently depend on, to a large degree, third parties for a variety of equipment-related services, including engineering, warehousing, repair, transportation, logistics, testing, installation and de-installation. This outsourcing strategy involves risks to our business, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality and costs and the potential absence of adequate capacity. In the event that any significant subcontractor was to become unable or unwilling to continue to perform their required services, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. This process could be lengthy, and we cannot be sure that additional sources of third party services would be available to us on a timely basis, or at all. The market for supplying equipment and services to telecommunications operators is highly competitive. Competition among companies who supply equipment and services to telecommunications operators is intense. We currently face competition primarily from five sources: OEMs, distributors, secondary market dealers, telecommunications infrastructure support services companies who sell new and re-used telecommunications infrastructure equipment and services and service providers themselves. In addition, in recent years, we have experienced competition from entities founded by former employees of Somera. If we are unable to compete effectively against our current or future competitors, we may have to lower our selling prices and may experience reduced gross margins and loss of market share, either of which could harm our business. Competition is likely to increase as new companies enter our market, as current competitors expand their products and services, as our competitors consolidate, as former employees join our competitors or found their own companies, and as our customers develop internal capabilities. Increased competition in the secondary market for telecommunications equipment could also heighten demand for the limited supply of re-used equipment, which would lead to increased prices for, and reduce the availability of, this equipment. Any increase in these prices could significantly impact our ability to maintain our gross margins. We may be forced to reduce the sales prices for the equipment and services we sell. In the future, we expect to reduce prices in response to competition and to generate increased sales volume. As a result of the slow-down in the telecommunications market since 2001, some manufacturers reduced their prices of new telecommunications equipment. If manufacturers reduce the prices of new telecommunications equipment, we may be required to further reduce the price of the new and re-used equipment we sell. If we are forced to reduce our prices or are unable to shift the sales mix towards higher margin equipment and service sales, we will not be able to maintain current gross margins. 6 Table of Contents Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers would have a negative impact on our net revenue. Historically, a significant portion of our sales has been to relatively few customers. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 47.7% of our net revenue in 2005, 39.6% of our net revenue in 2004, and 44.9% of our net revenue in 2003. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue in 2005, 2004 or 2003. In addition, substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and we do not have long term purchasing agreements with customers that require our customers to purchase equipment from us. We face a further risk that consolidation among our significant customers, such as the recently completed acquisitions of AT&T Wireless by Cingular Wireless, Nextel by Sprint, Western Wireless by Alltel, AT&T by SBC Communications and MCI by Verizon Communications could result in more customer concentration and fewer sales opportunities that would adversely impact our net revenue. Further, one of our ten largest customers has notified us of its belief that we have not met certain performance requirements. As a result, we cannot be certain that our current customers will continue to purchase from us. The loss of, or any reduction in orders from, a significant customer would have a negative impact on our net revenue. If we do not maintain our international operations our business could suffer. We intend to maintain our business in international markets. International operations require significant management attention and financial resources including sales, procurement and support channels. We opened our European headquarters in the fourth quarter of 2000. However, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for the equipment and services we sell. Our experience in providing equipment and services outside the United States is increasing, but still developing. Sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for $20.3 million, or 26.3%, of our net revenue in 2005, $21.8 million, or 21.8%, of our net revenue in 2004, and $30.0 million, or 22.0%, of our net revenue in 2003. Our quarterly net revenue and the price of our stock may be negatively impacted by the seasonal purchasing patterns of our customers. Our quarterly net revenue may be subject to the seasonal purchasing patterns of our customers, which may occur as a result of our customers’ annual budgetary, procurement and sales cycles. If our quarterly net revenue fails to meet the expectations of analysts due to those seasonal fluctuations, the trading price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Our business may suffer if we are not successful in our efforts to keep up with a rapidly changing market. The market for the equipment and services we sell is characterized by technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and frequent new equipment and service introductions. Our future success in addressing the needs of our customers will depend, in part, on our ability to timely and cost-effectively: • respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes; • develop our internal technical capabilities and expertise; • broaden our equipment and service offerings; and • adapt our services to new technologies as they emerge. Our failure in any of these areas could harm our business. Moreover, any increased emphasis on software solutions as opposed to equipment solutions could limit the availability of new and re-used equipment, decrease customer demand for the equipment we sell, or cause the equipment we sell to become obsolete. A downturn and/or consolidation in the telecommunications industry or an industry trend toward reducing or delaying additional equipment purchases due to cost-cutting and other pressures could reduce demand for our products. We rely significantly upon customers concentrated in the telecommunications industry as a source of net revenue and re-used equipment inventory. Since 2001, we believe we have experienced a general downturn in the level of capital spending by our telecommunications customers for the products and services we sell. This slow-down in capital spending could result in postponement of network upgrades and reduced sales to our customers. There can be no assurance that the level of capital spending in the telecommunications industry or by our customers specifically will increase or remain at current levels, or generate future net revenue levels at which our business would be profitable in future periods. The lifecycles of telecommunications infrastructure equipment may become shorter, which would decrease the supply of, and carrier demand for, re-used equipment, and telecommunications equipment lifecycle services, which could increase our expenses. Our sales of re-used equipment and services depend upon telecommunications operator utilization of existing telecommunications network technology. If the lifecycle of equipment comprising operator networks is significantly shortened for any reason, including technology advancements, the installed base of any particular model of equipment would be limited. This limited installed base would reduce the supply of, and demand for, re-used equipment and services we offer, which could decrease our net revenue. Additionally, to the extent that lifecycles for telecommunications equipment are shortened, equipment we hold in anticipation of future sales may, to an accelerating degree, become less valuable or obsolete and subject to an inventory write-down, which would increase our cost of sales levels. The market for telecommunications equipment lifecycle services is relatively new and it is unclear whether our service offerings will achieve long-term market acceptance. The market for equipment lifecycle services is relatively new and evolving, and we are not certain that our current or potential customers will adopt the telecommunications equipment lifecycle services we offer. The sales cycle for our recently developed equipment lifecycle services and other services offerings is protracted due to the fact that these offerings are new and involve multiple layers of our customers’ organizations. If we are unable to successfully sell our equipment lifecycle service and other services offerings to our customers or if the sales cycle for these services continues to be protracted, our business could suffer. Many of our customers are telecommunications operators that may at any time reduce or discontinue their purchases of the equipment and services we sell to them. If our customers choose to defer or curtail their capital spending programs, it could have a negative impact on our sales to those telecommunications operators, which would harm our business. A significant portion of our customers are emerging telecommunications operators who compete against existing telecommunications companies. These new participants only recently began to enter these markets, and many of these operators are still building their networks and rolling out their services. They require substantial capital for the development, construction and expansion of their networks and the introduction of their services. If emerging operators fail to acquire and retain customers or are unsuccessful in raising needed funds or responding to any other trends, such as price reductions for their services or diminished demand for telecommunications services in general, then they could be forced to reduce their capital spending programs. We may fail to continue to attract, develop and retain key management and sales personnel, which could negatively impact our business. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of key members of our senior management or other key employees could 7 Table of Contents negatively impact our operating results and our ability to execute our business strategy. Further, we depend on our sales professionals to serve customers in each of our markets. The loss of key sales professionals could significantly disrupt our relationships with our customers and harm our business. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Competition for employees in the telecommunications equipment and services industry is intense. Additionally, we depend on our ability to train and develop skilled sales people and an inability to do so would significantly harm our growth prospects and operating performance. If we engage in acquisitions, we may experience difficulty assimilating the operations or personnel of the acquired companies, which could threaten our future growth. If we make acquisitions in the future, we could have difficulty assimilating or retaining the acquired companies’ personnel or integrating their operations, equipment or services into our organization. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Moreover, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs, including, but not limited to, costs associated with acquisitions that we elect not to pursue, impairment of goodwill, or amortization of acquired other intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities in any future acquisitions. The incurrence of debt would place an additional financial burden on us and cause our results to suffer and could impose restrictions on our operations. The issuance of equity securities by us in connection with any acquisition would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. New regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect our operating results and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as an important component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plan is an essential tool to link the long-term interests of our stockholders and employees and serves to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has implemented changes to United States generally accepted accounting principles that require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants, as well as other equity-based awards. The changes implemented by FASB relating to the accounting for equity compensation plans will go into effect the first quarter of 2006. This accounting pronouncement will negatively impact our operating results. Failure to comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could result in a negative market reaction. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K. The annual report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. While we have expended and continue to expend significant resources in complying with Section 404, there is a risk that we will not be able to comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. We have identified two matters that we consider to constitute material weakness in the design and operation of our internal controls as of December 31, 2005. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” A material weakness is defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. As of December 31, 2005, the Company identified two material weaknesses in that it did not (i) maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with the Company’s financial reporting requirements, or (ii) maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of inventory. Management has outlined remediation efforts designed to address the material weaknesses identified and enhance the overall control environment. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures for further information. If we fail to implement required remediation initiatives, new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404. If such actions were to occur, we cannot predict how the market or regulators will react. We are potentially subject, to new environmental legislation enacted by the European Union and, if we do not comply, our operating profit could be adversely impacted. In June 2005, FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. FAS 143-1, “Accounting for Electronic Equipment Waste Obligations” to address the accounting for obligations associated with EU Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “Directive”). The Directive requires EU member countries to adopt legislation to regulate the collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of electrical and electronic waste equipment. Under the Directive, the waste management obligation for historical equipment (products put on the market on or prior to August 13, 2005) remains with the commercial user until the equipment is replaced. Depending upon the law adopted by the particular country, upon replacement, the waste management obligation for that equipment may be transferred to the producer of the related equipment. The user retains the obligation if they do not replace the equipment. Not all EU member countries have yet enacted the Directive. We are unable to predict with certainty what specific directive the remaining countries may enact. If those directives are not in line with our expectations it could result in additional costs and disruption to operations and logistics and thus, could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial condition. We may not be able to continue to meet the listing criteria for The Nasdaq National Market, which would adversely affect the ability of investors to trade our common stock and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “SMRA.” On October 31, 2005, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (“Nasdaq”) notifying the Company that for the prior 30 consecutive trading days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum required for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq National Market pursuant to Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rules. In accordance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, we were provided 180 calendar days, or until May 1, 2006, to regain compliance with this requirement. Compliance will be achieved if the bid price per share of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or greater for a minimum of ten (10) consecutive trading days prior to May 1, 2006 (or such longer period of time as may be required by Nasdaq, in its discretion). There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market in the future. If the closing bid price of our common stock does not close above $1.00 per share for the required time period to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, we would be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. The delisting of our common stock may result in the trading of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly called the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) or the OTC Bulletin Board. Consequently, a delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market may reduce the liquidity of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to raise additional necessary capital and could adversely affect our sales efforts due to a potential loss of customer confidence in our business. As of the date of this filing we remained in non-compliance of the minimum share price rule. As of March 7, 2006 we filed a proxy statement in respect of a special meeting of our shareholders at which our shareholders will be asked to consider a proposal to approve a reverse stock split. The reverse stock split has been proposed to allow us to comply with the NASDAQ National Market minimum share price rules. There can be no assurance that shareholder approval will be obtained. While we believe that our common stock would likely trade at higher prices after the consummation of the reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the increase in the trading price will occur, or, if it does occur, that it will equal or exceed the minimum share price required under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. In some cases, the total market capitalization of a company following a reverse stock split is lower, and may be substantially lower, than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split. In addition, the fewer number of shares that will be available to trade will possibly cause the trading market of the common stock to become less liquid, which could have an adverse effect on the price of the common stock. We cannot offer any assurance that our common stock will continue to meet The Nasdaq National Market continued listing requirements following the reverse stock split. The market price of our common stock is based on our performance and other factors, some of which may be unrelated to the number of our shares outstanding. In addition, there can be no assurance that the reverse stock split will result in a per share price that will attract brokers and investors who do not trade in lower priced stock or that it will increase the Company’s ability to attract and retain employees and other service providers. 8 Table of Contents Our facilities could be vulnerable to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our office in Carpinteria, California, is located on or near known earthquake fault zones and our facilities worldwide are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, mudslides, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If a disaster occurs that impacts our headquarters and execution and delivery center in Texas, our offices in Carpinteria, California, or our offices in the Netherlands, our ability to test and ship the equipment we sell would be seriously, if not completely, impaired, and our inventory could be damaged or destroyed, which would seriously harm our business. We cannot be sure that the insurance we maintain against fires, floods, earthquakes, mudslides and general business interruptions will be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. The corruption or interruption of key software systems we use could cause our business to suffer if it delays or restricts our ability to meet our customers’ needs. We rely on the integrity of key software and systems. Specifically we rely on our relationship management database which tracks information on currently or potentially available re-used equipment. This software and these systems may be vulnerable to harmful applications, computer viruses and other forms of corruption and interruption and is frequently updated by its manufacturer. In the event any form of corruption or interruption affects our software or systems or in the event we fail to update our software or systems, it could delay or restrict our ability to meet our customers’ needs, which could harm our reputation or business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 