Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements). These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If any of the events in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 through 2010. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve greatly in the near future. Furthermore, our primary market area in northern and east central Indiana has experienced continued deterioration in economic growth and employment than the rest of the country. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans for many lenders. Stock prices for financial institutions and their holding companies have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for those entities to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. 28 The recent economic recession has been severe in our primary market area of northern and east central Indiana and, if those local economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be impacted adversely as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing loans decreases. Substantially all of our loans are located in northern and east central Indiana. Our financial results may be affected adversely by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates that may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Continued decreases in real estate values in our primary market areas could affect adversely the value of real property used as collateral for our mortgage loans. As a result, the market value of the real estate underlying these loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to the remaining loan balance. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. In addition, adverse changes in the Indiana economy may have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would also have an adverse impact on earnings. Unemployment levels in our Indiana market area are higher than the national levels. According to data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for, the national unemployment rate for the United States at December 31, 2010 was 9.1% compared to an average of 10.6% for our market areas in Indiana. See “Item 1 - Business - Market Area.” Our expansion efforts, particularly through new and acquired branches, may not be successful if we fail to manage our growth effectively. A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand our branch network into communities within or adjacent to the Indiana counties we operate in. In 2008, we expanded our branch network into north central Indiana with the acquisition of MFB Corp and the branches of its financial institution subsidiary. In 2010, we considered making an acquisition through an FDIC-assisted transaction. We intend to continue to pursue a growth strategy for our business. Operating branches outside of the counties we originally were located in and beyond our current market areas, may subject us to additional risk, including the local risks related to the new market areas, management of employees from a distance, additional credit risks, logistical operational issues and management time constraints. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities, and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, branch acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch network will be profitable. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may engage in a FDIC-assisted transaction in the future, which could present additional risks to our financial condition and earnings. In the current economic environment, we expect to be presented with more opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks through FDIC-assisted transactions. However, these acquisitions are structured in a manner that does not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition, including preparing for integration of an acquired institution. Therefore, we may face additional risks, including the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. Moreover, even though we are inclined to participate in a FDIC-assisted transaction, we can offer no assurances that we would be successful in acquiring the financial institution or assets we are seeking. 29 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.64% of gross loans and 42.16% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2010, compared to 1.53% of gross loans and 50.38% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2009. Our emphasis on originating commercial and one- to four-family real estate and commercial business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase our originations of these loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, resulting in decreased earnings. Our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their review. These increases in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, troubled debt restructurings and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $45.0 million, which was an increase of $4.9 million or 12.3% over non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs including taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, potentially distracting them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities. Our provision for loan losses has increased substantially and additional increases in the provision and loan charge-offs may be required, adversely impacting operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $7.1 million compared to $6.5 million for the 2009 fiscal year. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $7.1 million in 2010, compared to $5.2 million in 2009. During 2010 and 2009, we experienced increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, nonperforming loans increased from $32.6 million at the end of 2009 to $38.8 million at the end of 2010. If the declining trends in the housing, real estate and local business markets continue, we expect increased levels of delinquencies and credit losses to continue, which adversely impacts our financial condition and results of operations. 30 If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned (“REO”), and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulator periodically reviews our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by our regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by decreases in interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our stockholders’ equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. At December 31, 2010, the change in net unrealized losses on securities available for sale from the level at December 31, 2009 was an increase of $2.0 million. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a $2.1 million non-cash other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities we hold for investment. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of these securities were $2.6 million. Management concluded that the decline of the estimated fair value below the cost of the security was other than temporary and recorded a credit loss of $841,000 through non-interest income. We determined the remaining decline in value was not related to specific credit deterioration. We do not intend to sell these securities and it is more likely than not we will not be required to sell the securities before anticipated recovery of the remaining amortized cost basis. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting. Our valuation of our securities will be influenced by the default rates of specific financial institutions whose securities provide the underlying collateral for these securities. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in these securities by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of these or other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, stockholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2010, $572.1 million, or 56.6% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans (including home equity lines of credit). This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may impact significantly the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Indiana housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. In addition, borrowers seeking to sell their homes may find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal loan balance. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. 31 Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our percentage of commercial real estate, construction and development and commercial business loans. At December 31, 2010, 31.1% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, construction and development and commercial business loans to small and mid-sized businesses in our primary market areas, which are the types of businesses that have a heightened vulnerability to local economic conditions. Over the last several years, we have increased this type of lending from 19.7% of our portfolio at December 31, 2006 to 31.1% at December 31, 2010, in order to improve the yield on our assets. At December 31, 2010, our loan portfolio included $49.8 million of commercial construction and development loans, $199.5 million of commercial real estate loans and $64.6 million of commercial business compared to $14.5 million, $79.0 million and $67.5 million for construction and development, commercial real estate and business loans, respectively, at December 31, 2006. These increases were primarily due to the MFB acquisition in 2008. As a result, we have experienced an increase in non-performing commercial real estate, construction and development and commercial business loans. See “Item 1 - Business of MutualBank - Asset Quality -- Non-Performing Assets.” The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of multifamily and commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, as a result of our increasing emphasis on this type of lending, a large portion of our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios is relatively unseasoned. As a result, we may not have enough payment history upon which to judge future collectability or to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Several of our commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to any one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. Our consumer loan portfolio possesses increased risk. Our consumer loans accounted for approximately $227.8 million, or 22.6% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, of which $16.0 million consisted of automobile loans and $103.6 million consisted of home equity loans, including lines of credit. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Because our indirect loans, which totaled $100.1 million at December 31, 2010, were originated through a third party and not directly by us, they present greater risks than other types of lending activities. As a result of this portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. 32 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected significantly by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income. Changes in interest rates also may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which could limit the funds we have available to reinvest in higher-yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our portfolio of available-for-sale securities totaled $245.2 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $2.4 million, while gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $7.8 million, resulting in a net unrealized loss of $5.5 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, our interest rate risk analysis indicated that our net portfolio value would decrease by 8% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Asset/Liability Management.” Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement. Our asset/liability management strategies are designed to decrease our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is to increase the amount of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets. The Bank offers adjustable rate loan products as a means to achieve this strategy. The availability of lower rates on fixed-rate loans would generally create a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable rate assets. Additionally, these adjustable-rate assets may prepay. At December 31, 2010, 40.0% of our loan portfolio consisted of adjustable-rate loans, compared to 40.2% at December 31, 2009. We also are managing our liabilities to moderate our interest rate risk sensitivity. Customer demand is primarily for short-term certificates of deposit and transaction accounts. Using short-term liabilities to fund long-term, fixed-rate assets will increase the interest rate sensitivity of any financial institution. When needed we are utilizing Federal Home Loan Bank advances and repurchase agreements to mitigate the impact of customer demand by lengthening the maturities of these advances or entering into longer term repurchase agreements, depending on liquidity or investment opportunities. Federal Home Loan Bank advances and repurchase agreements are entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund assets that provide for a spread considered sufficient by management. If we are unable to originate adjustable rate assets at favorable rates or fund loan originations or securities purchases with long-term advances or structured borrowings, we may have difficulty executing this asset/liability management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability. 33 We are subject to credit risks in connection with the concentration of adjustable rate loans in our portfolio. Adjustable rate loans made up 40.0% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2010. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable-rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably lower interest rates. In addition, declining housing prices may prevent refinancing or a sale of the home, because borrowers have insufficient equity in their homes. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates and negatively impact our earnings. We face risks related to covenants in our loan sales to investors and secondary mortgage market conditions. Our agreements with investors to sell our loans generally contain covenants that require us to repurchase loans under certain circumstances, including some delinquencies, or to return premiums paid by those investors if the loans are paid off early. If we are required to repurchase sold loans under these covenants, they may be deemed troubled loans, with the potential for charge-offs and/or loss provision changes, which could impact our earnings and asset quality ratios adversely. The Bank was required to repurchase two loans with combined total outstanding principal of less than $100,000 from our investors during 2010. Our ability to sell loans on the secondary mortgage market is impacted by interest rate changes and investor demand or expected return. If this market becomes less liquid, we may not be able to rely as much on loan sales to reduce our interest rate and credit risk. Declining economic conditions may adversely impact the fees generated by our asset management and trust business. To the extent our asset management and trust clients and their assets become adversely impacted by weak economic and stock market conditions, they may choose to withdraw the assets managed by us and the value of their assets may decline. Our asset management revenues are based on the value of the assets we manage. If our clients withdraw assets or the value of their assets decline, our revenues from these activities may be adversely affected. These fees totaled $2.6 million in 2010, compared to $2.2 million in 2009. We face significant operational risks. We operate in many different financial service businesses and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. A tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may affect asset growth, our earnings capability and capital levels negatively. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, including brokered deposits, as well as cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings, especially from the Federal Home Loan Bank and repurchase agreements, also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations or continued deterioration in credit markets. 34 We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to repay our TARP funds, support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. 35 The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. Our core deposit premium could be deemed partially or fully impaired, which could reduce our earnings and the values of that intangible asset. At December 31, 2010, we had a core deposit premium of $4.1 million due mainly to the MFB acquisition. Under GAAP, we are required to periodically assess the value of this intangible asset based on a number of factors to determine if there is partial or full impairment. The factors taken into consideration include the market price of our stock, the net present value of our assets and liabilities and valuation information for similar financial institutions. This evaluation involves a substantial amount of judgment. If actual conditions underlying the factors differ from our assessment, the core deposit intangible could be subjected to faster amortization or partial or complete impairment, which would reduce the value of this asset and reduce our earnings, perhaps materially. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2010, we held $93.9 million of bank-owned life insurance or BOLI on key employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $45.6 million. The policies are maintained to fund amounts owed under executive supplemental retirement plans. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax asset fully. At December 31, 2010, we had a $21.3 million deferred income tax benefit based on differences between the financial statement amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities and reflecting mainly an allowance for loan loss timing difference and business tax and AMT carryover. The value of our deferred income tax benefit is reviewed regularly under various forecasts and assumptions, including anticipated levels of taxable net income, to determine the likelihood of realizing the benefit. If actual results or subsequent forecasts differ from our current judgments, so if it becomes more likely than not that this benefit will not be fully realized, we would have to write down this asset, which would negatively impact results of operation and reduce our asset size. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2010, we owned $16.7 million in Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our Federal Home Loan Bank. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our Federal Home Loan Bank. Federal Home Loan Bank did initiate a stock buyback in 2010 to repurchase some excess member stock. Our Federal Home Loan Bank’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our Federal Home Loan Bank stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. 36 Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. The Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, which has extensive discretion in connection with its supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides for the creation of a consumer protection division at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that will have broad authority to issue regulations governing the services and products we provide consumers. This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely impact our operations. The legislation transfers primary responsibility for the regulation of the Bank from the OTS to the OCC. That legislation also contains provisions that, over time, could result in higher regulatory capital requirements and loan loss provisions for the Company and the Bank and may increase interest expense due to the ability in July 2011 to pay interest on all demand deposits. Recent regulatory changes impose limits on our ability to charge overdraft fees, which may decrease our non-interest income as compared to more recent prior periods. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. See “How We Are Regulated.” In this recent economic downturn, federal and state banking regulators have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OTS govern the activities in which the Bank may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. For example, recent legislative proposals require changes to our overdraft protection programs that decrease the amount of fees we receive for these services. During 2010, overdraft protection and nonsufficient fund fees totaled $3.4 million. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. In 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levied a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $630,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation generally increased the base assessment rates effective April 1, 2009, and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premium expense has increased compared to prior periods. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also required all insured institutions to prepay at the end of 2009 their estimated deposit insurance assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 was calculated as the modified third-quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, every institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third-quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Our prepayment amount was $6.7 million, including adjustments made in connection with recent branch acquisitions. Future increases in our assessment rate or special assessments would decrease our earnings. 37 Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have national name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 23, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of MutualFirst Financial. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 8.2% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. 38 If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock before December 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock before December 2013, the cost of the TARP capital will increase substantially from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.6 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $2.9 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on dividends from MutualBank for substantially all of the Company’s revenue. MutualFirst’s primary source of revenue is dividends from the Bank. The OTS regulates and must approve the amount of Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, MutualFirst may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of many larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers for our common stock at any given time. This presence is impacted by general economic and market conditions and investors’ views of our Company. Because our trading volume is limited, any significant sales of our shares could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers have the ability to influence stockholder actions in a manner that may be adverse to the personal investment objectives of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned 1,116,400 shares, or 16.0%, of our common stock (including options for 384,625 shares). In addition, our employee stock ownership plan and charitable foundation controlled, respectively, 7.0% and 3.2% of our common stock on that date. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, 314,702 shares were reserved under various stock benefit plans for future awards for our directors, officers and employees. Due to this significant collective ownership of or control over our common stock, our directors and executive officers may be able to influence the outcome of director elections or block significant transactions, such as a merger or acquisition, or any other matter that might otherwise be favored by other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 