ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully review and consider the following risks as well as all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or which we believe are not material also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. To the extent any of the information contained in this annual report constitutes forward-looking information, the risk factors set forth below are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. 6 Index to Financial Statements We have experienced recurring operating losses and our liquidity has been significantly reduced, and we expect to continue incurring losses in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we had a net loss of $43.3 million and used $6.9 million of cash in operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $103.4 million and a total stockholders’ deficit of $2.0 million. As of December 31, 2010 and February 28, 2011 we had unrestricted cash of $0.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively. Due to uncertainty about our ability to meet our current operating expenses and capital expenditures, in their report on our annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not achieve profitability in the future, and even if we do, we may not be able to sustain being profitable. We will be required to raise additional funds to finance our operations and remain a going concern; we may not be able to do so when necessary, and/or the terms of any financings may not be advantageous to us. The continuation of our business is dependent upon raising additional financial support. In light of our results of operations, management has and intends to continue to evaluate various possibilities. These possibilities include: raising additional capital through the issuance of common or preferred stock, securities convertible into common stock, or secured or unsecured debt, selling one or more lines of business, or all or a portion of the Company’s assets, entering into a business combination, reducing or eliminating operations, liquidating assets, or seeking relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These possibilities, to the extent available, may be on terms that result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Management has plans to seek additional capital through a private placement and public offering of its common stock during 2011. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in raising additional cash to finance operations. If we are not successful, we will be required to reduce operations and/or liquidate assets and/or seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements, our stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our businesses. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market (“Nasdaq”) under the symbol “DIET.” If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of Nasdaq, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as: • a $1.00 minimum closing bid price; • shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million, market value of publicly-held shares of $35 million, or net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years; • 500,000 shares of publicly-held common stock with a market value of at least $1 million; • 300 round-lot stockholders; and • compliance with Nasdaq’s corporate governance requirements, as well as additional or more stringent criteria that may be applied in the exercise of Nasdaq’s discretionary authority. 7 Index to Financial Statements On June 28, 2010, we received a notice of non-compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing standard relating to the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement. When we were unable to regain compliance during an initial period of 180 calendar days, a Nasdaq hearing panel provided us with an additional period of time, until June 28, 2011, to regain compliance. If the bid price of our common stock does not close at $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive days prior to June 28, 2011, our common stock will be subject to immediate de-listing form Nasdaq. In addition, we received a second notice of non-compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing standard relating to the requirement that we maintain a market capitalization of at least $35.0 million. We have a period of 180 calendar days, until August 1, 2011, to regain compliance with the Nasdaq market capitalization rule. If our common stock is delisted, we cannot provide any assurance that our securities will be quoted on any other quotation service, such as the over the counter bulletin board or the pink sheets quotation services. The delisting of our securities may adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our common stock and adversely impact our future access to the capital markets. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. We have no long-term credit facility or other source of long-term funding other than $1.0 million in Notes held by an officer and directors of our Company (the “Director Notes”), and as of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $7,000 in accrued interest on the Director Notes that will mature on December 31, 2011. We have no long-term credit facility or other source of long-term funding other than the Director Notes which represent: (i) a promissory note to Kevin A. Richardson II, one of the Company’s directors and an officer of Prides Capital Partners, LLC (“Prides”), pursuant to which the Company borrowed $600,000, (ii) a promissory note to Lee S. Isgur, one of the Company’s directors, pursuant to which the Company borrowed $200,000 and (iii) a promissory note to Kevin N. McGrath, one of the Company’s directors and the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to which the Company borrowed $200,000.The Director Notes mature on December 31, 2011 at which time we must repay the original principal amount of $1.0 million, together with accrued interest of approximately $57,000. We do not believe that our cash flows from operations alone will be sufficient to support repayments and otherwise satisfy our repayment obligation under these Director Notes. Furthermore, even if we are able to refinance or extend the Director Notes, we will need additional financing to continue our operations. Based on our current financial condition, we may be unable to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms if at all. If we are unable to obtain third party financing, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as seeking additional equity capital, reducing operations, liquidating assets, or seeking relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Any such actions could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Economic conditions are adversely affecting consumer discretionary spending and may continue to negatively impact our business and operating results. Because our meal delivery offerings consist of freshly prepared meals, they are priced higher than our major competitors such as Nutrisystem and Jenny Craig. The success of our meal delivery business is therefore dependent on customers’ willingness and ability to invest a larger percentage of discretionary spending in our meal delivery products than may be required with our competitors’ products. Because discretionary spending is influenced by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and the availability of discretionary income, a protracted economic slowdown, increased unemployment, decreased salaries and wage rates, increased energy prices, inflation, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures adversely affect consumer behavior and decrease consumer discretionary spending. A decline in our customers’ discretionary spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If this difficult economic situation continues for a prolonged period of time or deepens in magnitude, our business and results of operations could be materially affected. We may be forced to enter into business combinations and strategic alliances on unfavorable terms which may disrupt our business. In order to continue our business, we may be required to enter into asset sales, business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. To the extent we are able to find a purchaser or other joint venturer, due to our weak financial and operating condition, these transactions may be on highly unfavorable terms, which may materially adversely affect or eliminate the value of our common stock. If we are unable to consummate a transaction of this type, we may be required to cease operations. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select the right markets and media in which to advertise. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our brand and our program; • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; 8 Index to Financial Statements • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media) in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs; • select the right market, media and specific media vehicle in which to advertise; and • convert consumer inquiries into actual orders. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of brand name and program awareness. We may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis whereby our customer acquisition cost may exceed the contribution profit generated from each additional customer. As the largest stockholder, Prides has significant influence over our company. As of March 25, 2011, Prides owned approximately 60.7% of our outstanding voting common stock based upon 61,230,338 shares outstanding. Therefore, as a practical matter, Prides has significant influence over the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Additionally, concentration of control in one stockholder may discourage potential investors from providing additional financing if we need it. Prides initially acquired our common stock under the terms of a 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement (the “Company Purchase Agreement”). The Company Purchase Agreement affords Prides certain participation rights and anti-dilution protections which could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing or to effect a merger or other business combination transaction. In addition, under the terms of the Company Purchase Agreement, as long as Prides owns at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, the following require the approval of a majority vote of our board of directors, which majority must include at least one Prides director: • authorize, create, designate, establish or issue any other class or series of capital stock ranking senior to our capital stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, or reclassification of any shares of our capital stock into shares having any preference or priority as to dividends or upon liquidation superior to any such preference or priority of our common stock; • adopt a plan for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of our company or any recapitalization plans; • amend, alter or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise our Certificate of Incorporation; • alter or change the rights, preferences or privileges of our common stock or the warrants issued to Prides; or • directly or indirectly, declare or pay any dividend (other than dividends payable in shares of our common stock) or directly or indirectly purchase, redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any share of our common stock (except for shares of our common stock repurchased from current or former employees, consultants, or directors upon termination of service in accordance with plans approved by our board of directors (whether in cash, securities or property or in our obligations). We face significant competition. Competition is intense in the weight management industry and we must remain competitive in the areas of program efficacy, price, taste, customer service and brand recognition. In addition to Weight Watchers® International, Inc., Waterfront Media, Inc. and NutriSystem, Inc. we currently compete with several Internet sites which provide diet and nutrition information, including WeightWatchers.com. We know of several other online competitors aggressively marketing online programs which may be somewhat similar to ours, including some that are offered at no charge to the customer. Increased competition and a proliferation of free online diet plans could result in reductions in the prices we receive for our programs, lower margins, loss of customers and reduced visitor traffic to our Website. Several of our existing competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and may be able to devote greater resources for the development and promotion of their services and products. These competitors may also engage in more extensive marketing and advertising efforts, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to advertisers and alliance partners. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete successfully. We rely on third parties to provide us with adequate food supply and certain fulfillment, the loss of which could cause our revenue, earnings or reputation to suffer. Food Manufacturer. We currently depend on one third party meal delivery vendor for manufacture and fulfillment of our prepared meals. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantity, quality and variety of food and fulfillment of customer orders in a timely and low-cost manner from this manufacturer, we will be unable to adequately fulfill our customers’ orders which would adversely affect our operating results and damage the value of our brand. Freight and Fulfillment. Our orders are shipped by one third-party, United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”). Should UPS be unable to service our needs for even a short duration, our revenue and business could be harmed. Additionally, the cost and time associated with 9 Index to Financial Statements replacing UPS on short notice would add to our costs. Any replacement fulfillment provider would also require startup time, which could cause us to lose sales and market share. Therefore, we are dependent on maintaining good relationships with these third parties. The services we require from these parties may be disrupted by a number of factors associated with their businesses, including the following: • labor disruptions; • delivery problems; • financial condition of operations; • internal inefficiencies; • equipment failure; • natural or man-made disasters; and • with respect to our food supplier, shortages of ingredients or United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) and United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) compliance issues. 10 Index to Financial Statements We depend heavily on our network infrastructure and its failure could result in unanticipated expenses and prevent our subscribers from effectively utilizing our services, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers and advertisers. Our ability to successfully create and deliver our content depends in large part on the capacity, reliability and security of our networking hardware, software and telecommunications infrastructure. Failures of our network infrastructure could result in unanticipated expenses to address such failures and could prevent our subscribers from effectively utilizing our services, which could prevent us from retaining and attracting subscribers and advertisers. The hardware infrastructures on which our system operates are located in Saint Louis, Missouri and Lithia Springs, Georgia. We do not currently have a formal disaster recovery plan. Our system is susceptible to natural and man-made disasters, including war, terrorism, earthquakes, fires, floods, power loss and vandalism. Further, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could adversely affect the operation of our systems. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any damages or interruptions in our systems. Accordingly, we could incur capital expenditures in the event of unanticipated damage. In addition, our subscribers depend on Internet service providers, or ISPs, for access to our Website. In the past, ISPs and Websites have experienced significant system failures and could, in the future, experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. These problems could harm our business by preventing our subscribers from effectively utilizing our services. Problems with the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure could adversely affect the quality and reliability of the services we offer our subscribers and advertisers. We depend significantly on the Internet infrastructure to deliver attractive, reliable and timely e-mail messages to our subscribers. If Internet usage grows, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it by this growth, and its performance and reliability may decline, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain revenue growth. Among other things, continued development of the Internet infrastructure will require a reliable network backbone with necessary speed, data capacity and security. Currently, there are regular failures of the Internet network infrastructure, including outages and delays, and the frequency of these failures may increase in the future. These failures may reduce the benefits of our services to our subscribers and undermine our advertising partners’ and our subscribers’ confidence in the Internet as a viable commercial medium. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability as a commercial medium due to delays in the development or adoption of new technology required to accommodate increased levels of Internet activity or due to government regulation. These factors could adversely affect our business by adversely affecting the quality and reliability of the services we offer our customers. The unauthorized access of confidential member information that we transmit over public networks could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain subscribers. Our subscribers transmit confidential information to us over public networks, and the unauthorized access of such information by third parties could harm our reputation and significantly hinder our efforts to attract and retain subscribers. We rely on a variety of security techniques and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer transaction data and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Because of volatility in the advertising markets which we target, we may not be able to effectively attract and retain subscribers. We are currently dependent in large part on the online advertising market to attract and retain subscribers to our digital plans and meal delivery service. We expect competitive pressures to continue to increase in the future which may result in higher costs in the online advertising market, thereby significantly impacting our costs to acquire and retain subscribers. Although we are currently developing alternative channels of customer acquisition, including television, print and radio advertising, there can be no assurance that these measures will as effectively attract and retain subscribers as have our online advertising programs in the past. We may have to litigate to protect our rights or to defend claims brought against us by third parties, and such litigation may subject us to significant liability and be time consuming and expensive. We face a substantial risk of litigation, including litigation regarding intellectual property rights in Internet-related businesses. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of certain proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. We may have to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or defend ourselves against claims of violating the proprietary rights of third parties. We also face the risk of having to defend against lawsuits brought by third parties related to our business activities. For example, we depend heavily on Internet advertising, and we have been involved in both civil litigation and administrative proceedings arising out 11 Index to Financial Statements of pop-up ads and other advertising practices, in both cases brought by one of our competitors. If the outcome of similar proceedings that we may face in the future were to make certain types of advertising unavailable to us, then our marketing may become less effective and our financial results could suffer. Any of this type of litigation may subject us to significant liability for damages, result in invalidation of our proprietary rights, be time-consuming and expensive to defend, even if not meritorious, and result in the diversion of management time and attention. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business operations and financial results and condition. If we pursue competitive advertising, we may be subject to litigation from our competitors. If we pursue competitive advertising, our competitors may pursue litigation regardless of its merit and chances of success. Competitive advertising may include advertising that directly or indirectly mentions a competitor or a competitor’s weight loss program in comparison to our program. Defending such litigation may be lengthy and costly, strain our resources and divert management’s attention from their core responsibilities, which would have a negative impact on our business. We may be subject to health-related claims from our customers. Our weight loss program does not include medical treatment or medical advice, and we do not engage physicians or nurses to monitor the progress of our customers. Many people who are overweight suffer from other physical conditions, and our target consumers could be considered a high-risk population. A customer who experiences health problems could allege or bring a lawsuit against us on the basis that those problems were caused or worsened by participating in our weight management program. Currently, we are neither subject to any such allegations nor have we been named in any such litigation. However, if we were, we would defend ourselves against such claims. Defending ourselves against such claims, regardless of their merit and ultimate outcome, would likely be lengthy and costly, and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our general liability insurance may not cover claims of these types. If we cannot protect and enforce our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, our brand and our business will suffer. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and competitive position. The actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights may prove to be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products or services or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may develop similar trademarks or other intellectual property independently or assert rights in our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If so, third parties may seek to block or limit sales of our products and services based on allegations that use of some of our marks or other intellectual property constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights. If we cannot protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, or if our trademarks or other intellectual property rights infringe upon the rights of third parties, the value of our brand may decline, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our industry is subject to governmental regulation that could increase in severity and hurt results of operations. Our industry is subject to federal, state and other governmental regulation. For example, some advertising practices in the weight loss industry have led to investigations from time to time by the FTC and other governmental agencies. Many companies in the weight loss industry have entered into consent decrees with the FTC relating to weight loss claims and other advertising practices. The FTC has recently published revisions to its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising. Among other things, the revised Guides require us to monitor the activities of bloggers and other third parties over whom we have limited control. Our inability to do so effectively could lead the FTC to bring administrative or legal action against us. Further, the revised Guides significantly affect our ability to advertise the successes our customers have achieved in losing weight through our programs. For example, we are no longer able to include the phrase “results not typical” in advertisements describing our customers’ successes. Uncertainties surrounding the application of the revised Guides may adversely affect our ability to advertise our programs effectively and may require us to incur significant additional costs. In addition, regulation of advertising practices in the weight loss industry may increase in scope or severity in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 12 Index to Financial Statements Other aspects of our industry are also subject to government regulation. For example, food manufacturers are subject to rigorous inspection and other requirements of the USDA and FDA. If federal, state or local regulation of our industry increases for any reason, then we may be required to incur significant expenses, as well as modify our operations to comply with new regulatory requirements, which could harm our operating results. Additionally, remedies available in any potential administrative or regulatory actions may include requiring us to refund amounts paid by all affected customers or pay other damages, which could be substantial. Laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent and these laws and regulations could significantly increase the costs we incur in using the Internet to conduct our business. The United States Congress has recently enacted Internet legislation regarding children’s privacy, commercial email, copyright and taxation. The European Union has recently adopted a directive addressing data privacy that may result in limits on the collection and use of member information. A number of other laws and regulations, including those at the state or local level, may be adopted that regulate the use of the Internet. These may include laws addressing user privacy, pricing, acceptable content, taxation, use of the telecommunications infrastructure, commercial email and quality of products and services. The laws governing the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, including those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet and Internet advertising. In addition, the growth and development of the market for Internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. As a result of these uncertainties, we may incur unanticipated, significant costs and expenses that could impact our financial results and condition. We may effect a reverse stock split to avoid our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. We may effect a reverse stock split in order to avoid being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. However, while we expect that the resulting reduction in our outstanding shares of common stock will increase the market price of our common stock, we cannot assure you that the reverse stock split will increase the market price of our common stock by a multiple equal to the number of pre-split shares in the reverse split ratio, or result in any permanent increase in the market price. In some cases the stock price of companies that have effected reverse stock splits has subsequently declined back to pre-reverse split levels. A reverse stock split is often viewed negatively by the market and, consequently, could lead to a decrease in our overall market capitalization. Our recent restructuring plan may adversely affect our ability to react to business developments and manage our business. In order to manage our expenses and reduce our use of our limited cash, we have recently implemented a reduction in force which significantly reduced the number of employees that we employed. However, this reduction may adversely affect our ability to react to business developments, grow our revenue or manage our business, which would adversely affect the financial condition of the Company and the value of our common stock. The price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. In the past year, our stock has closed at prices ranging from a high of $1.44 on March 30 and 31, 2010, to a low of $0.3349 on February 8, 2011. We expect our market price to continue to be extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock is also subject to fluctuations in response to general trends in the weight loss industry, seasonality, announcements by our competitors, our ability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations, recommendations by securities analysts, the condition of the financial markets and other factors. In addition, short-term trading strategies of certain investors can also have a significant effect on the price of specific securities and the concentration of ownership of our stock could lead to heightened volatility even if relatively few shares are traded. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and cause it to fluctuate significantly. The exercise of warrants or options may depress our stock price. There are a significant number of warrants and options to purchase our common stock outstanding at prices ranging from $0.3535 to $6.07 per share. Holders may sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrants and options at a market price that exceeds the exercise price of the warrants and options paid by the holders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by holders of warrants or options may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. We do not expect to pay dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the business. Therefore, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock in the form of dividends. 13 Index to Financial Statements We have authorized but unissued preferred stock, which could affect rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the preferred stock could be issued as a method of discouraging a takeover attempt. Although we do not intend to issue any preferred stock at this time, we may do so in the future. We will need to keep pace with rapid technological change in the e-commerce and Internet subscription diet and wellness plan industries. In order to remain competitive, we will be continually required to enhance and to improve the functionality and features of our subscription products and website, which could require us to invest significant capital. If our competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing services, technology, and systems may become obsolete and we may not have the funds or technical know-how to upgrade our services, technology, and systems. We may face material delays in introducing new services, products, and enhancements. If such delays occur, our users may forego use of our services and select those of our competitors, in which event, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The sale of prepared meals and nutritional supplements involves product liability and other risks. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our prepared meal delivery products and nutritional supplements results in illness or injury. We are subject to various laws and regulations, including those administered by the United States Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration, that establish manufacturing practices and quality standards for food products. We may be subject to claims that our products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled, include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business as our contract indemnification rights and existing insurance coverage may not be adequate. Distributors of food products, vitamins, and nutritional supplements are frequently named as defendants in product liability lawsuits. The successful assertion or settlement of an uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims or a claim exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage would harm us by adding costs to the business and by diverting the attention of senior management. Product liability litigation or regulatory action, even if not meritorious, is very expensive and could also entail adverse publicity for us and reduce our revenue. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may deter or delay an acquisition of us or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition or a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us, even if our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be junior to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. The issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We rely on qualified, key executive management personnel. The success of our business will also depend on our ability to hire and retain additional qualified key executive management personnel, particularly in the marketing, administrative and financial areas. If we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our operating results. Our program features pre-packaged food selections, which we believe offer convenience and value to our customers. Our continued success depends, to a large degree, upon the continued popularity of our program versus various other weight loss, weight management and fitness regimens, such as low carbohydrate diets, appetite suppressants and diets featured in the published media. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences away from our weight loss oriented meal delivery service and digital weight-loss programs, and any failure to provide innovative responses to these changes, may have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. 14 Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 