D. Risk Factors Investing in our preferred shares and ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this annual report in evaluating an investment in our preferred shares or ADSs. Our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materializes and, as a result, the trading price of the preferred shares or the ADSs could decline and you could lose a substantial part or even all of your investment. We have included information in these risk factors concerning Brazil based on information that is publicly available. Risks Relating to Ultrapar and Its Industries Petrobras is the only supplier of LPG and the main supplier of oil-based fuels in Brazil. Fuel distributors in Brazil, including Ipiranga, have formal contracts with Petrobras for the supply of oil-based fuels. Ultragaz has a formal contract with Petrobras for the supply of LPG. Any interruption in the supply of LPG or oil-based fuels from Petrobras would immediately affect Ultragaz or Ipiranga’s ability to provide LPG and oil-based fuels to their customers. Prior to 1995, Petrobras held a constitutional monopoly for the production and importation of petroleum products in Brazil. Although the Brazilian government terminated Petrobras’ monopoly in November 1995, Petrobras effectively remains the sole provider of LPG and oil-based fuels in Brazil. Currently, Ultragaz and all other LPG distributors in Brazil purchase all or nearly all LPG from Petrobras. Ultragaz’s net sales and services represented 10% of our consolidated net sales and services for the year ended December 31, 2009. The procedures for ordering and purchasing LPG from Petrobras are generally common to all LPG distributors — including Ultragaz. For more details, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Supply of LPG”. With respect to fuel distribution, Petrobras also supplied nearly all of Ipiranga and other distributors’ oil-based fuel requirements in 2009. Petrobras’ supply to Ipiranga is governed by an annual contract, under which the supply volume is established based on the volume purchased in the previous year. Ipiranga’s net sales and services represented 84% of our consolidated net sales and services for the year ended December 31, 2009. 13 Table of Contents The last significant interruption in the supply of oil derivatives by Petrobras to LPG and fuel distributors occurred during the 1995 strike by Petrobras employees. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Industry and Regulatory Overview”. Significant interruptions of LPG and oil-based fuel supply from Petrobras may occur in the future. Any interruption in the supply of LPG or oil-based fuels from Petrobras would immediately affect Ultragaz or Ipiranga’s respective ability to provide LPG or oil-based fuels to its customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of LPG or oil-based fuels from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through LPG or oil-based fuels purchased on the international market. The average cost of LPG and oil based fuels in the international market has been historically higher than the price we obtained through Petrobras. As a result, any such interruption could increase our purchase costs and, as a result, adversely affect our operating margins. Intense competition in the LPG and in the Brazilian fuel distribution market may affect our operating margins. The Brazilian LPG market is very competitive in all segments — residential, commercial and industrial. Petrobras, our supplier of LPG, and other major companies with greater resources than we possess participate in the Brazilian LPG distribution market. Intense competition in the LPG distribution market could lead to lower sales volumes and increased marketing expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview — The role of Petrobras” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Competition”. The Brazilian fuel distribution market is highly competitive in both the retail and wholesale segments. Petrobras, our supplier of oil-derivative products, and other major companies with greater resources than we possess participate in the Brazilian fuel distribution market. Intense competition in the fuel distribution market could lead to lower sales volumes and increased marketing expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Industry and Regulatory Overview — The role of Petrobras” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Ipiranga — Competition”. In addition, a number of small local and regional distributors entered the Brazilian fuel distribution market in the late 90s, after the market was deregulated, which further increased competition in such market. Anticompetitive practices by our competitors may distort market prices. In the last few years, anticompetitive practices have been one of the main problems affecting fuels distributors in Brazil, including Ipiranga. Generally these practices have involved a combination of tax evasion and fuels adulteration, such as the dilution of gasoline by mixing solvents or adding anhydrous ethanol in an amount greater than the 25% permitted by applicable law. Taxes constitute a significant portion of the cost of fuels sold in Brazil. For this reason, tax evasion on the part of some fuel distributors has been prevalent, allowing them to lower the prices they charge. As the final prices for the products sold by these distributors, including Ipiranga, are calculated based on, among other factors, the amount of taxes levied on the purchase and sale of these fuels, such anticompetitive practices as tax evasion may affect Ipiranga’s sales volume and increase marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. Should there be any increase in the taxes levied on fuel, tax evasion may increase, resulting in a greater distortion of the prices of fuels sold. These practices have enabled certain distributors to supply large quantities of fuel products at prices lower than those offered by the major distributors, including Ipiranga, resulting in a considerable increase in the sales volumes of the distributors who have adopted these practices. Although the Brazilian government has taken measures to inhibit these practices, if such practices become more prevalent, Ipiranga could suffer from a reduction in sales volume and an increase in marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. LPG competes with alternative sources of energy. Competition with and the development of alternative sources of energy in the future may adversely affect the LPG market. LPG competes with alternative sources of energy, such as natural gas, wood, diesel, fuel oil and electricity. Natural gas is currently the principal source of energy against which we compete. Natural gas is currently less expensive than LPG for industrial consumers who purchase large volumes, but more expensive for residential consumers. In addition, supply of natural gas requires significant investments in pipelines. Changes in relative prices or the development of alternative sources of energy in the future may adversely affect the LPG market and consequently our business, financial results and results of operations. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Competition”. 14 Table of Contents Ethylene, the principal raw material used in our petrochemical operations, comes from limited supply sources. Any reduction in the supply of ethylene would have an immediate impact on Oxiteno’s production and results of operations. All second generation petrochemical producers in Brazil that use ethylene as their key raw material, including Oxiteno, our subsidiary involved in the production and sale of chemical and petrochemical products, purchase ethylene from Brazilian suppliers. Approximately 3% of our net sales are derived from the sale of chemical products that require ethylene. Oxiteno purchases ethylene from two of Brazil’s three naphtha crackers, which are the sole sources of ethylene in Brazil. Pursuant to long-term contracts, Braskem supplies all of our ethylene requirements at our plant located at Camaçari and Quattor Química supplies all of our ethylene requirements at our plant located at Mauá. For more detailed information about these contracts see “Item 5.F. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations”. In January 2010, Braskem announced the acquisition of Quattor, which was concluded in May 2010. Given its characteristics, ethylene is difficult and expensive to store and transport, and cannot be easily imported to Brazil. Therefore, Oxiteno is almost totally dependent on ethylene produced at Braskem (including ethylene produced at Quattor Química) for its supply. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Brazilian ethylene imports totaled approximately 21 tons, representing less than 0.01% of Brazil’s installed capacity. Due to ethylene’s chemical characteristics, Oxiteno does not store any quantity of ethylene, and reductions in supply from Braskem (including Quattor Química) would have an immediate impact on our production and results of operations. We are currently investing in the ethylene oxide production capacity expansion in Camaçari and we have agreed with Braskem on an additional ethylene supply after this expansion is completed. See “Item 4.A. Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company — Investments”. If we further expand our production capacity, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional ethylene from Braskem (including Quattor Química). In addition, Petrobras is the principal supplier of naphtha to crackers in Brazil, and any interruption in the supply of naphtha from Petrobras to the crackers could adversely impact their ability to supply ethylene to Oxiteno. The Brazilian petrochemical industry is influenced by the performance of the international petrochemical industry and its cyclical behavior. The international petrochemical market is cyclical in nature, with alternating periods typically characterized by tight supply, increased prices and high margins, or by overcapacity, declining prices and low margins. The decrease in Brazilian tariff rates on petrochemical products, the increase in demand for such products in Brazil, and the ongoing integration of regional and world markets for commodities, among other factors, have contributed to the increasing integration of the Brazilian petrochemical industry into the international petrochemical marketplace. As a consequence, events affecting the petrochemical industry worldwide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of ethylene is subject to fluctuations in international oil prices. The price of ethylene, which is the principal component of Oxiteno’s cost of sales and services, is directly linked to the price of naphtha, which, in turn, is largely linked to the price of crude oil. Consequently, ethylene prices are subject to fluctuations in international oil prices. A significant increase in the price of crude oil and, consequently, naphtha and ethylene, could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on Oxiteno’s results of operations. The reduction in import tariffs on petrochemical products can reduce our competitiveness in relation to imported products. Final prices paid by importers of petrochemical products include import tariffs. Consequently, import tariffs imposed by the Brazilian government affect the prices we can charge for our products. The Brazilian government’s negotiation of commercial and free trade agreements may result in reductions in Brazilian import duties on petrochemical products, which generally range between 12% and 14%, and may reduce the competitiveness of Oxiteno’s products vis-à-vis imported petrochemical products. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation and regulation by government agencies responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies in Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela. Companies like ours are required to obtain licenses for their manufacturing facilities from environmental authorities which may also regulate their operations by prescribing specific environmental standards in their operating licenses. Environmental regulations apply particularly to the discharge, handling and disposal of gaseous, liquid and solid products and by-products from manufacturing activities. In 2007, a new legislation entitled REACH (Registration Evaluation Authorization of Chemicals) was established by the European Union, focusing on controlling the production, imports and utilization of chemical products in the region. According to REACH, all the chemical products exported to the European Union must be registered by the exporting company through the submission of information regarding properties, uses and safety of each product that will be analyzed by the European Regulatory Agency for authorization. In 2009, 3% of the volume sold by Oxiteno was exported to this region. Oxiteno is in compliance with the current requirements of this legislation. We cannot guarantee the effect that amendments to this new legislation could have on any product we export to the European Union, or whether similar legislation may come into force in other regions. 15 Table of Contents Changes in these laws and regulations, or changes in their enforcement, could adversely affect us by increasing our cost of compliance or operations. In addition, new laws or additional regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could require us to spend additional funds on related matters in order to stay in compliance, thus increasing our costs and having an adverse effect on our results. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards”, “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Fuel Distribution — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards, “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Petrochemicals and Chemicals — Industry and Regulatory Overview — Environmental, health and safety standards” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Logistics — Ultracargo — Transportation Regulation”. The production, storage and transportation of LPG, fuels and petrochemicals are inherently hazardous. The complex operations we perform at our plants involve a variety of safety and other operating risks, including the handling, production, storage and transportation of highly inflammable, explosive and toxic materials. These risks could result in personal injury and death, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. A sufficiently large accident at one of our plants, service stations or storage facilities could force us to suspend our operations temporarily and result in significant remediation costs and loss of revenues. In addition, insurance proceeds may not be available on a timely basis and may be insufficient to cover all losses. Equipment breakdowns, natural disasters and delays in obtaining imports or required replacement parts or equipment can also affect our manufacturing operations and consequently our results from operations. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses that we might incur. The operation of any chemical manufacturing plant and the distribution of petrochemicals, as well as the operations of logistics of oil, chemical products, LPG and fuel distribution involve substantial risks of property contamination and personal injury and may result in material costs and liabilities. Although we believe that current insurance levels are adequate, the occurrence of losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance or that exceed the limits of our insurance coverage could result in significant unexpected additional costs. The suspension, cancellation or non-renewal of certain federal tax benefits may adversely affect our results of operations. We are entitled to federal tax benefits providing for income tax exemption or reduction for our activities in the northeast region of Brazil. These benefits have defined terms and may be cancelled or suspended at any time if we do not comply with our commitment, to distribute to our shareholders the amounts under the benefits or if the relevant tax authorities decide to suspend or cancel our benefits. As a result, we may become liable for the payment of related taxes at the full tax rates. If we are not able to renew such benefits, or if we are only able to renew them under terms that are substantially less favorable than expected, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Income tax exemptions amounted to R$20.6 million, R$40.3 million and R$35.2 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Distribution of Liquefied Petroleum Gas — Ultragaz — Income tax exemption status,” “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Petrochemicals and Chemicals — Oxiteno — Income tax exemption status” and “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Logistics — Ultracargo — Income tax exemption status”. We are currently controlled by members of our founding family and our senior management, which substantially limits the ability of other shareholders to control the direction of our business. Our senior management and the members of our founding family indirectly control approximately 66% of our voting shares through their control of Ultra S.A. This level of control enables Ultra S.A. to elect the majority of our directors and to determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval. See “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements”. Accordingly, minority shareholders, including holders of preferred shares or ADSs, have limited ability to control the direction of our business. Our status as a holding company may limit our ability to pay dividends on the preferred shares and consequently, on the ADSs. As a holding company, we have no significant operating assets other than our ownership of shares of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our operating income comes from our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends depends solely upon our receipt of dividends and other cash flows from our subsidiaries. As a result of the acquisitions of Ipiranga, União Terminais and Texaco, Ultrapar has assumed certain liabilities of the businesses acquired and all the risks related to those liabilities. Ultrapar has assumed certain liabilities of the business acquired in the acquisitions of Ipiranga, União Terminais and Texaco; therefore, certain existing financial obligations, legal liabilities or other known and unknown contingent liabilities or risks of the 16 Table of Contents businesses acquired have become the responsibility of Ultrapar. See “Item 5.B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Indebtedness” for more information regarding the financial obligations assumed by Ultrapar in connection with the acquisitions of Ipiranga and União Terminais. See “Item 4.A. Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments” for more information in connection with the acquisition of Texaco. These liabilities may cause Ultrapar to be required to make payments, incur charges or take other actions that may adversely affect Ultrapar’s financial position and results of operations and the price of Ultrapar’s preferred shares. Our business may be vulnerable to disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. From mid-2007 to mid-2008, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to greater volatility. In September 2008, global financial markets deteriorated and a number of major foreign financial institutions experienced significant difficulties, including inadequate liquidity. However, the initiatives adopted by several governments to minimize the effects of the crisis through monetary and tax policies contributed to the economic recovery of certain countries, particularly in emerging markets, including Brazil. Continued disruption in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on acceptable financial terms. If financial market volatility causes capital outflow and/or significant exchange rate fluctuations, it may pressure inflations indexes and thereby adversely affect our cash operating expenses that are substantially in reais. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Brazil”. Furthermore, an economic downturn could negatively affect the financial stability of our customers, which could result in a general reduction in business activity and a consequent loss of income for us. Our reported financial condition and results could be adversely affected by changes in Brazilian accounting principles due to the convergence to IFRS. Brazilian accounting principles have been undergoing rapid change pursuant to legislation adopted late in 2007, requiring, among other things, that Brazilian accounting standard-setters move toward convergence with IFRS, which will be mandatory by 2010. Accounting changes that took effect in 2008 have been given effect for the years 2007 and 2008 presented in our audited consolidated financial statements and are described in “Presentation of Financial Information” and Note 2 to the audit consolidated financial statements. Many new accounting standards have been adopted and are currently being implemented. Others are expected in the near future. Although we believe our results would not be materially affected by these new rules, we cannot predict if the changes will have a significant effect on our financial statements in the future. These effects could include reducing our reported revenues, operating income or net income, or adversely affecting our balance sheet. Rising climate change concerns could lead to additional regulatory measures that may result in increased costs of operation and compliance, as well as a decrease in demand for our products. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries, including Brazil, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to, among other things, reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements could reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shifting hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources. In addition many governments are providing tax advantages and other subsidies and mandates to make alternative energy sources more competitive against oil and gas. Governments are also promoting research into new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative energy sources, all of which could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may substantially increase our compliance costs and, as a result, increase the price of the products we produce or distribute. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Brazilian political and economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes substantial changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and affect other policies and regulations have involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls, and limits on imports, among other measures. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations involving or affecting tariffs, exchange controls and other matters, as well as factors such as: • currency fluctuations; • inflation; 17 Table of Contents • interest rates; • price instability; • energy shortages; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • fiscal policy; and • other trade, political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government may implement changes in policy or regulation affecting these or other factors in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. These and other future developments in the Brazilian economy and government policies may adversely affect us and our businesses and results of operations and may adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs and preferred shares. Inflation and certain governmental measures to curb inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and could harm our business and the market value of the ADSs and our preferred shares. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation and some of the Brazilian government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than that in previous periods. However, during the last several years, the economy has experienced increasing inflation rates and actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future governmental actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market. According to the Índice Geral de Preços-Mercado, or IGP-M, an inflation index, the Brazilian general price inflation rates were 1.7% deflation in 2009, and inflation of 9.8% in 2008, 7.8% in 2007 and 3.8% in 2006. From January 2010 to May 2010 IGP-M index was 4.8%. According to the Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or IPCA, an inflation index to which Brazilian government’s inflation targets are linked, inflation in Brazil was 4.3% in 2009, 5.9% in 2008, 4.5% in 2007 and 3.1% in 2006. From January 1, 2010 to May 31, 2010, inflation as measured by IPCA was 3.1%. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in the future. Our operating expenses are substantially in reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation. Inflationary pressures may also hinder our ability to access foreign financial markets or may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could harm our business or adversely affect the market value of our preferred shares and, as a result, our ADSs. Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our preferred shares. The Brazilian currency has been devalued periodically during the last four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and utilized a number of exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly, floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. Although over long periods depreciation of the Brazilian currency generally has correlated with the rate of inflation in Brazil, devaluation over shorter periods has resulted in significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. From 2003 to 2007, the real appreciated 39% against the U.S. dollar. In 2008, the worsening of the global financial crisis from mid-September led to a sharp reduction in the flow of capital to Brazil that resulted in a 32% real devaluation, reversing the real appreciation trend in place since 2003. However, in 2009, the quick rebound of the Brazilian economy has driven the inflow of foreign investments in the country, thus contributing to a 25% appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar in 2009 – the highest appreciation in the decade. From January 1, 2010 to June 25, 2010 the real resumed its depreciation, and, as a result, depreciated 2% against the U.S. dollar in the period. See “Item 3.A. Key Information — Selected Consolidated Financial Data — Exchange Rates”. There are no guarantees that the exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar will stabilize at current levels. Although we have managed our existing U.S. dollar debt obligations in order to protect against fluctuations in the dollar/real exchange rate, we could in the future experience monetary losses relating to these fluctuations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk” for information about our foreign exchange risk hedging policy”. Depreciations of the real relative to the U.S. dollar can create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciations generally curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciations also reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our preferred shares and, as a result, the ADSs. On the other hand, appreciation of 18 Table of Contents the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. Although a large part of our sales is denominated in reais, prices and certain costs (particularly ethylene and palm kernel oil, purchased by our subsidiary Oxiteno) in the chemical business are benchmarked to prices prevailing in the international markets. Hence, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our capacity to service our debt. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the results of our operations and the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs. The market value of securities of Brazilian companies is affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises such as the recent global financial crisis may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including our preferred shares and ADSs. This could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Our businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by a general economic downturn and by instability and volatility in the financial markets. The turmoil of the global financial markets and the scarcity of credit have led to lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. An economic downturn could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our customers, which could in turn result not only in decreased demand for our products, but also increased delinquencies in our accounts receivable. Furthermore, the global financial crisis could have a negative impact on our cost of borrowing and on our ability to obtain future borrowings. The disruptions in the financial markets could also lead to a reduction in available trade credit due to counterparties’ liquidity concerns. If we experience a decrease in demand for our products or an increase in delinquencies in our accounts receivable, or if we are unable to obtain borrowings our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. United States investors may not be able to obtain jurisdiction over or enforce judgments against us. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Federative Republic of Brazil. All members of our board of directors, executive officers and experts named in this annual report are residents of Brazil. All or a substantial part of the assets pertaining to these individuals and to Ultrapar are located outside the United States. As a result, it is possible that investors may not be able to obtain jurisdiction over these individuals or Ultrapar in the United States, or enforce judgments handed down by United States courts of law based on provisions for civil liability under federal law in relation to securities of the United States or otherwise. Risks Relating to the Preferred Shares and the American Depositary Shares The preferred shares and the ADSs generally do not give you voting rights. Generally under Brazilian Corporate Law and in the case of our bylaws, holders of preferred shares do not have the right to vote at shareholders’ meetings except in limited circumstances. This means, among other things, that holders of our preferred shares and our ADSs, which represent preferred shares, are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions including mergers or consolidations with other companies. See “Item 10.B. Additional Information — Memorandum and Bylaws”. The preferred shares and the ADSs do not entitle you to a fixed or minimum dividend. Under our bylaws, unless otherwise proposed by the board of directors and approved by the voting shareholders in the Annual General Meeting, we must pay our shareholders a mandatory distribution equal to at least 50% of our adjusted net income. The net income may be capitalized, used to set off losses and/or retained in accordance with the Brazilian Corporate Law and may not be available for the payment of dividends. Therefore, whether or not you receive a dividend depends on the amount of the mandatory distribution, if any, and whether the board of directors and the voting shareholders exercise their discretion to suspend these payments. See “Item 8.A. Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Dividend and Distribution Policy — Dividend Policy” for a more detailed discussion of mandatory distributions. You might be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the preferred shares. In the event of a rights offering or a capital increase that would maintain or increase the proportion of capital represented by preferred shares, preferred shareholders would have preemptive rights to subscribe to newly issued preferred shares. In the event of a capital increase that would reduce the proportion of capital represented by preferred shares, preferred shareholders would have 19 Table of Contents preemptive rights to subscribe for preferred shares in proportion to their shareholdings and for common shares only to the extent necessary to prevent dilution of their interest in the company. Our bylaws establish that the board of directors may exclude preemptive rights to the current shareholders, holding either common or preferred shares, in the case of an offering of new shares to be sold on a registered stock exchange or otherwise through a public offering. The holders of preferred shares or ADSs may be unable to exercise their preemptive rights in relation to the preferred shares represented by the ADSs, unless we file a registration statement pursuant to the United States Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption from the registration requirements applies. We are not obliged to file registration statements with respect to the preemptive rights and therefore do not assure holders that such a registration will be obtained. If the rights are not registered as required, the depositary will try to sell the preemptive rights held by holder of the ADSs and you will have the right to the net sale value, if any. However, the preemptive rights will expire without compensation to you should the depositary not succeed in selling them. If you exchange the ADSs for preferred shares, you risk losing certain foreign currency remittance and Brazilian tax advantages. The ADSs benefit from the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration permits the depositary to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the preferred shares into foreign currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you exchange your ADSs for preferred shares, you will be entitled to rely on the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, you will not be able to remit abroad non-Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under National Monetary Council Resolution 2,689, dated January 26, 2000, known as Resolution 2,689, which entitles certain investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate certificates of registration. If you do not qualify under Resolution 2,689, you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on distributions with respect to the preferred shares. The depositary’s certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by you may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, and additional Brazilian law restrictions applicable to your investment in the ADSs may be imposed in the future. For a more complete description of Brazilian tax regulations, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — Brazilian Tax Consequences”. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect you. Investing in securities, such as the preferred shares or ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from more developed countries. For the reasons above, investments involving risks relating to Brazil, such as investments in ADSs, are generally considered speculative in nature and are subject to certain economic and political risks, including but not limited to: • changes to the regulatory, tax, economic and political environment that may affect the ability of investors to receive payments, in whole or in part, in respect of their investments; and • restrictions on foreign investment and on repatriation of capital invested. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. This may limit your ability to sell the preferred shares underlying your ADSs at the price and time at which you wish to do so. The São Paulo Stock Exchange, known as BM&FBovespa, the only Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$1.3 trillion as of December 31, 2009 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$56 billion for 2009. In comparison, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of US$18.9 trillion as of December 31, 2009 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$1.0 trillion for 2009. There is also a large concentration in the Brazilian securities market. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 55% of the aggregate market capitalization of BM&FBovespa as of December 31, 2009. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 50% of all shares traded on BM&FBovespa in 2009. Ultrapar’s average daily trading volume on both stock exchanges in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was R$27.0 million, R$26.5 million and R$11.8 million, respectively. Controls and restrictions on the remittance of foreign currency could negatively affect your ability to convert and remit dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of our preferred shares, Ultrapar’s capacity to make dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Brazilian law provides that, whenever there is a serious imbalance in the Brazilian balance of payments or reasons for believing that there will be a serious imbalance in the future, the Brazilian government can impose temporary restrictions on remittances of income on investments by non-Brazilian investors in Brazil. The probability that the Brazilian government might impose such restrictions is related to the level of the country’s foreign currency reserves, the availability of currency in the foreign exchange markets on the maturity date of a payment, the amount of the Brazilian debt servicing requirement in relation to the economy as a whole, and the Brazilian policy towards the International Monetary Fund, among other factors. We are unable to give assurances that the Central Bank will not modify its policies or that the Brazilian government will not introduce restrictions or cause 20 Table of Contents delays in payments by Brazilian entities of dividends relating to securities issued in the overseas capital markets up to the present. Such restrictions or delays could negatively affect your ability to convert and remit dividends, distributions or the proceeds from the sale of our preferred shares, Ultrapar’s capacity to make dividend payments to non-Brazilian investors and the market price of our preferred shares and the ADSs. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to a disposition of our ADSs. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposal occurs outside or within Brazil. In the event that the disposal of assets is interpreted to include a disposal of our ADSs, this tax law could result in the imposition of the withholding income tax on a disposal of our ADSs between non-residents of Brazil. See “Item 10.E Additional Information — Taxation — Brazilian Tax Consequences — Taxation of Gains”. Substantial sales of our shares or our ADSs could cause the price of our preferred shares or our ADSs to decrease. Shareholders of Ultra S.A. have the right to withdraw and convert common shares owned through Ultra S.A. into our preferred shares as more fully described under “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders — Shareholders’ Agreements”. Two other shareholders, who may freely sell their respective shares, hold a substantial portion of our remaining common shares. A sale of a significant number of shares could negatively affect the market value of the preferred shares and ADSs. The market price of our preferred shares and the ADSs could drop significantly if the holders of shares or the ADSs sell them or the market perceives that they intend to sell them. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, U.S. Holders of our preferred shares or our ADSs would be subject to disadvantageous rules under the U.S. tax laws. If we were characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in any year, U.S. holders of our preferred shares or our ADSs could be subject to unfavorable U.S. federal income tax treatment. Although we do not believe that we, based on the manner in which we currently operate our business, on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, and the current interpretation of the PFIC provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, were a PFIC in 2009 and we do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that our business and activities will not lead to PFIC status for us in the future. PFIC classification is a factual determination made annually and thus is subject to change. See “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a description of the PFIC rules. 