Item 1A. Risk Factors OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF RISKS. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. We have incurred significant net losses, our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly We incurred net losses of $24.9 million, $114.1 million and $113.8 million in our fiscal years ended April 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Although we recorded net income of $10.0 million in the second half of fiscal 2006, our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated substantially in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include market acceptance of our products, market demand for the products manufactured by our customers, the introduction of new products and manufacturing processes, manufacturing yields, competitive pressures and customer retention. 15 Table of Contents We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons. Orders at the beginning of each quarter typically represent a small percentage of expected revenues for that quarter and are generally cancelable at any time. Accordingly, we depend on obtaining orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure to ship these products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our customer agreements typically provide that the customer may delay scheduled delivery dates and cancel orders within specified timeframes without significant penalty. Because we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our business. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will again decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, it is likely that the trading price of our common stock would significantly decline. We may have insufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, including payments due on our subordinated convertible notes We will be required to generate cash sufficient to conduct our business operations and pay our indebtedness and other liabilities, including all amounts due on our outstanding 21/2% and 51/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2010 and 2008, respectively. The aggregate outstanding principal amount of these notes was $250.3 million at April 30, 2006. Holders of the notes due in 2010 have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of their notes on October 15, 2007. We may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof. We may not be able to cover our anticipated debt service obligations from our cash flow. This may materially hinder our ability to make payments on the notes. Our ability to meet our future debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make required principal and interest payments on the notes when due. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the future, and failure to do so may harm our business We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future or to repay the principal of our outstanding 21/2% and 51/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2010 and 2008, respectively. Due to the unpredictable nature of the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience disappointing operating results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues could result in additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments We base many of our operating decisions, and enter into purchase commitments, on the basis of anticipated revenue trends which are highly unpredictable. Some of our purchase commitments are not cancelable, and in some cases we are required to recognize a charge representing the amount of material or capital equipment purchased or ordered which exceeds our actual requirements. In the past, we have sometimes experienced significant growth followed by a significant decrease in customer demand such as occurred in fiscal 2001, when revenues increased by 181% followed by a decrease of 22% in fiscal 2002. Based on projected revenue trends during these periods, we acquired inventories and entered into purchase commitments in order to meet anticipated increases in demand for our products which did not materialize. As a result, we recorded significant charges for obsolete and excess inventories and non-cancelable purchase commitments which contributed to substantial operating losses in fiscal 2002. Should revenue in future periods again fall substantially below our expectations, or should we fail again to accurately forecast changes in demand mix, we could be required to record additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments. 16 Table of Contents If we encounter sustained yield problems or other delays in the production or delivery of our internally-manufactured components, we may lose sales and damage our customer relationships In order to reduce our manufacturing costs, we have acquired a number of companies, and business units of other companies, that manufacture optical components incorporated in our optical subsystem products. For example, we now manufacture most of the lasers used in our optical subsystems at wafer fabrication facilities located in Allen, Texas and Fremont, California. As a result of this increased vertical integration, we have become increasingly dependent on our internally-produced components. The manufacture of these components, including the fabrication of wafers, involves highly complex processes. Minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process or other factors can cause a substantial portion of the components on a wafer to be nonfunctional. These problems may be difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and often are time-consuming and expensive to correct. We have recently experienced problems achieving acceptable yields at our wafer fabrication facilities, resulting in delays in the delivery of components to our subsystem assembly facilities. Poor manufacturing yields over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our ability to deliver our subsystem products to our customers and could also affect our sale of components to customers in the merchant market. Such delays could harm our relationships with customers and have an adverse effect on our business. Past and future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results Since October 2000, we have completed the acquisition of eight privately-held companies and certain businesses and assets from six other companies. We continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities, and we from time to time make proposals and offers, and take other steps, to acquire businesses, products and technologies. Several of our past acquisitions have been material, and acquisitions that we may complete in the future may be material. In 10 of our 14 acquisitions, we issued stock as all or a portion of the consideration. The issuance of stock in these and any future transactions has or would dilute stockholders’ percentage ownership. Other risks associated with acquiring the operations of other companies include: • problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful. During fiscal 2003, we sold some of the assets acquired in two prior acquisitions, discontinued a product line and closed one of our acquired facilities. As a result of these activities, we incurred significant restructuring charges and charges for the write-down of assets associated with those acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming future problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could significantly harm our business. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of our acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record additional write downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results. We may lose sales if our suppliers fail to meet our needs We currently purchase several key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources. We depend on these current and future sources to meet our production needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us over which we have limited control. We have encountered shortages and 17 Table of Contents delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We generally have no long-term contracts for any of our components. As a result, a supplier can discontinue supplying components to us without penalty. If a supplier discontinued supplying a component, our business may be harmed by the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays. We are also subject to potential delays in the development by our suppliers of key components which may affect our ability to introduce new products. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component requirements. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for particular components. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would significantly harm our business. We are dependent on widespread market acceptance of two product families, and our revenues will decline if the market does not continue to accept either of these product families We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of our optical subsystems and components and network performance test and monitoring systems. We expect that revenue from these products will continue to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, widespread acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. If the market does not continue to accept either our optical subsystems and components or our network performance test and monitoring systems, our revenues will decline significantly. Factors that may affect the market acceptance of our products include the continued growth of the markets for LANs, SANs, and MANs and, in particular, Gigabit Ethernet and Fibre Channel-based technologies, as well as the performance, price and total cost of ownership of our products and the availability, functionality and price of competing products and technologies. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, in order to achieve widespread market acceptance, we must differentiate ourselves from our competition through product offerings and brand name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making this differentiation or achieving widespread acceptance of our products. Failure of our existing or future products to maintain and achieve widespread levels of market acceptance will significantly impair our revenue growth. We depend on large purchases from a few significant customers, and any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business A small number of customers have consistently accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. For example, sales to our top five customers represented 44.0% of our revenues in fiscal 2006, including Cisco Systems, which represented 22.3%. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. The markets in which we sell our optical subsystems and components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critically important to our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers or that our customers will be successful in selling their products that incorporate our products. We have in the past experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers. In addition, our customers have in the past sought price concessions from us, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Cost reduction measures that we have implemented over the past several years, and additional action we may take to reduce costs, may adversely affect our ability to introduce new and improved products which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationships with some of our key customers. Further, some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products from us to our competitors or to joint ventures between these customers and our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to 18 Table of Contents these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions that we may make could significantly harm our business. Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time if we fail to meet our customers’ needs Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly: • our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty; • our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and • our customers are not required to make minimum purchases. Sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. If we are unable to fulfill these orders in a timely manner, it is likely that we will lose sales and customers. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards with respect to the protocols used in data communications networks. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to a slowdown in demand or in the expectation of a new product release or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • unanticipated engineering complexities; • expense reduction measures we have implemented, and others we may implement, to conserve our cash and attempt to maintain and increase our profitability; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and • changing market or competitive product requirements. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Continued competition in our markets may lead to a reduction in our prices, revenues and market share The markets for optical subsystems and components and network performance test and monitoring systems for use in LANs, SANs and MANs are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Other companies, including some of our customers, may enter the market for optical subsystems and network test and monitoring systems. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. For optical subsystems, we compete primarily with JDS Uniphase, Avago Technologies (formerly part of Agilent Technologies), Intel, Mitsubishi, Sumitomo and a number of smaller vendors. For network test and monitoring systems, we compete primarily with LeCroy Corporation and Agilent Technologies. Our competitors continue to introduce improved products with lower prices, and we will have to do the same to remain competitive. In addition, some of our current and potential customers may attempt to integrate their operations by producing their own optical components and subsystems and network test and monitoring systems or acquiring one of our competitors, thereby eliminating the need to purchase our products. Furthermore, larger companies in other related industries, such as the telecommunications industry, may develop or acquire technologies and apply their significant resources, including their distribution channels and brand name recognition, to capture significant market share in the industry segments in which we participate. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce gross margins The market for optical subsystems is characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased competition, overcapacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. We have in the past experienced, and in the future may experience, substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to declining average selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices will decrease in the future in response to product introductions by competitors or us, or by other factors, including price pressures from significant customers. Therefore, in order to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must continue to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our revenues and gross margins to decline, which would result in additional operating losses and significantly harm our business. We may be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to enable us to compete with others. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and could adversely affect our margins. In order to remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or improve our gross margins. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in gross margins Our gross profit margins vary among our product families, and are generally higher on our network test and monitoring systems than on our optical subsystems and components. Our optical products sold for longer distance MAN and telecom applications typically have higher gross margins than our products for shorter distance LAN or SAN applications. Our gross margins are generally lower for newly introduced products and improve as unit volumes increase. Our overall gross margins have fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product costs, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. Our customers often evaluate our products for long and variable periods, which causes the timing of our revenues and results of operations to be unpredictable The period of time between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of an actual purchase order may span a year or more. During this time, customers may perform, or require us to perform, extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of our products before purchasing and using them in their equipment. Our customers do not 20 Table of Contents typically share information on the duration or magnitude of these qualification procedures. The length of these qualification processes also may vary substantially by product and customer, and, thus, cause our results of operations to be unpredictable. While our potential customers are qualifying our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial research and development and sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. Even after incurring such costs we ultimately may not sell any products to such potential customers. In addition, these qualification processes often make it difficult to obtain new customers, as customers are reluctant to expend the resources necessary to qualify a new supplier if they have one or more existing qualified sources. Once our products have been qualified, the agreements that we enter into with our customers typically contain no minimum purchase commitments. Failure of our customers to incorporate our products into their systems would significantly harm our business. We depend on facilities located outside of the United States to manufacture a substantial portion of our products, which subjects us to additional risks In addition to our principal manufacturing facility in Malaysia, we operate smaller facilities in China and Singapore and also rely on two contract manufacturers located outside of the United States. Each of these facilities and manufacturers subjects us to additional risks associated with international manufacturing, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries; • greater incidence of shipping delays; • greater difficulty in overseeing manufacturing operations; • greater difficulty in hiring talent needed to oversee manufacturing operations; • potential political and economic instability; and • the outbreak of infectious diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which could result in travel restrictions or the closure of our facilities or the facilities of our customers and suppliers. Any of these factors could significantly impair our ability to source our contract manufacturing requirements internationally. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect both our revenues and our costs and expenses and significantly affect our operating results. Prices for our products are currently denominated in U.S. dollars for sales to our customers throughout the world. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country relative to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country’s currency, our products may be less competitive in that country and our revenues may be adversely affected. Although we price our products in U.S. dollars, portions of both our cost of revenues and operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, principally the Malaysian ringit and the Chinese yuan. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in one or more countries will exceed the rate of the devaluation of that country’s currency in relation to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the yuan will no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar but will be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies. This development increases the risk that Chinese-sourced materials and labor could become more expensive for us. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 21 Table of Contents Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and ongoing military action in the Middle East Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the United States and ongoing military action in the Middle East, including the economic consequences of the war in Iraq or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties we are subject to: • increased risks related to the operations of our manufacturing facilities in Malaysia; • greater risks of disruption in the operations of our Asian contract manufacturers and more frequent instances of shipping delays; and • the risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments which may not be successful, may result in the loss of all or part of our invested capital and may adversely affect our operating results Through fiscal 2006, we recorded minority equity investments in early-stage technology companies, totaling $52.4 million. Our investments in these early stage companies were primarily motivated by our desire to gain early access to new technology. We intend to review additional opportunities to make strategic equity investments in pre-public companies where we believe such investments will provide us with opportunities to gain access to important technologies or otherwise enhance important commercial relationships. We have little or no influence over the early-stage companies in which we have made or may make these strategic, minority equity investments. Each of these investments in pre-public companies involves a high degree of risk. We may not be successful in achieving the financial, technological or commercial advantage upon which any given investment is premised, and failure by the early-stage company to achieve its own business objectives or to raise capital needed on acceptable economic terms could result in a loss of all or part of our invested capital. In fiscal 2003, we wrote off $12.0 million in two investments which became impaired. In fiscal 2004, we wrote off $1.6 million in two additional investments, and in fiscal 2005, we wrote off $10.0 million in another investment. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006 we reclassified $4.2 million of an investment associated with the Infineon acquisition to goodwill as the investment was deemed to have no value. In addition, during fiscal 2006, we recognized $2.1 million of losses related to another investment accounted for under the equity method. We may be required to write off all or a portion of the $15.1 million in such investments remaining on our balance sheet as of April 30, 2006 in future periods and to recognize additional losses related to certain of our investments. We are subject to pending legal proceedings A securities class action lawsuit was filed on November 30, 2001 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, purportedly on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock from November 17, 1999 through December 6, 2000. The complaint named as defendants Finisar, Jerry S. Rawls, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Frank H. Levinson, our former Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Stephen K. Workman, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and an investment banking firm that served as an underwriter for our initial public offering in November 1999 and a secondary offering in April 2000. The complaint, as subsequently amended, alleges violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 20(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. No specific damages are claimed. Similar allegations have been made in lawsuits relating to more than 300 other initial public offerings conducted in 1999 and 2000, which were consolidated for pretrial purposes. In October 2002, all claims against the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice. On February 19, 2003, the Court denied defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint. In July 2004, we and the individual defendants accepted a settlement proposal made to all of the issuer defendants. Under the terms of the settlement, the plaintiffs will dismiss and release all claims against participating defendants in exchange for a contingent payment guaranty by the insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in all related cases, and the assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of certain 22 Table of Contents claims the issuer defendants may have against the underwriters. Under the guaranty, the insurers will be required to pay the amount, if any, by which $1 billion exceeds the aggregate amount ultimately collected by the plaintiffs from the underwriter defendants in all the cases. If the plaintiffs fail to recover $1 billion and payment is required under the guaranty, we would be responsible to pay our pro rata portion of the shortfall, up to the amount of the self-insured retention under our insurance policy, which may be up to $2 million. The timing and amount of payments that we could be required to make under the proposed settlement will depend on several factors, principally the timing and amount of any payment that the insurers may be required to make pursuant to the $1 billion guaranty. The Court held hearings on April 13, 2005 and September 6, 2005 to determine the form, substance and program of class notice and the scheduling of a fairness hearing for final approval of the settlement. Subsequently, the Court held a hearing on April 24, 2006 to consider final approval of the settlement and has yet to issue a decision. If the settlement is not approved by the Court, we intend to defend the lawsuit vigorously. Because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation, however, we cannot predict its outcome. If, as a result of this dispute, we are required to pay significant monetary damages, our business would be substantially harmed. Because of competition for technical personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. In particular, we may need to increase the number of technical staff members with experience in high-speed networking applications as we further develop our product lines. Competition for these highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. Our failure to attract and retain these qualified employees could significantly harm our business. The loss of the services of any of our qualified employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel could hinder the development and introduction of and negatively impact our ability to sell our products. In addition, employees may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We have been subject to claims of this type and may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers’ products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We license certain of our proprietary technology, including our digital diagnostics technology, to customers who include current and potential competitors, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property rights in this technology. Although a number of patents have been issued to us, we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, and we have filed applications for additional patents, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased 23 Table of Contents revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. We are currently engaged in pending litigation to enforce certain of our patents, and additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. In connection with the pending litigation, substantial management time has been, and will continue to be, expended. In addition, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, substantial legal expenses in connection with these pending lawsuits. These costs and this diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. Claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products The networking industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We have been involved in the past as a defendant in patent infringement lawsuits. From time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly harm our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside our control Our business and operating results are vulnerable to events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks in the United States and overseas. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of our manufacturing operations are located in California. California in particular has been vulnerable to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, and other risks which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We are also dependent on communications links with our overseas manufacturing locations and would be significantly harmed if these links were interrupted for any significant length of time. We presently do not have adequate redundant, multiple site capacity if any of these events were to occur, nor can we be certain that the insurance we maintain against these events would be adequate. The conversion of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes would result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders We currently have outstanding 51/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2008 in the principal amount of $100.3 million and 21/2% convertible subordinated notes due 2010 in the principal amount of $150.0 million. The 51/4% notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $5.52 per share. The 21/2% notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $3.705 per share. An aggregate of 58,647,060 shares of common stock would be issued upon the conversion of all outstanding convertible subordinated notes at these exchange rates, which would significantly dilute the voting power and ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. Holders of the notes due in 2010 have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of their notes on October 15, 2007. We may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof. Our right to repurchase the notes, in whole or in part, with shares of our common stock is 24 Table of Contents subject to the registration of the shares of our common stock to be issued upon repurchase under the Securities Act, if required, and registration with or approval of any state or federal governmental authority if such registration or approval is required before such shares may be issued. We have previously entered into privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of our convertible subordinated notes for the repurchase of notes in exchange for a greater number of shares of our common stock than would have been issued had the principal amount of the notes been converted at the original conversion rate specified in the notes, thus resulting in more dilution. Although we do not currently have any plans to enter into similar transactions in the future, if we were to do so there would be additional dilution to the voting power and percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Delaware law, our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: • authorizing the board of directors to issue additional preferred stock; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; • creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three-year terms; • permitting the board of directors to increase the size of the board and to fill vacancies; • requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which limit the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons. In addition, in September 2002, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan under which our stockholders received one share purchase right for each share of our common stock held by them. Subject to certain exceptions, the rights become exercisable when a person or group (other than certain exempt persons) acquires, or announces its intention to commence a tender or exchange offer upon completion of which such person or group would acquire, 20% or more of our common stock without prior board approval. Should such an event occur, then, unless the rights are redeemed or have expired, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, will be entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at a 50% discount from its then-Current Market Price (as defined) or, in the case of certain business combinations, purchase the common stock of the acquirer at a 50% discount. Although we believe that these charter and bylaw provisions, provisions of Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan provide an opportunity for the board to assure that our stockholders realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: • trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; 25 Table of Contents • changes in the market price of the products we sell; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • acquisitions and financings; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors in our common stock may deem comparable; and • purchases or sales of blocks of our common stock. Part of this volatility is attributable to the current state of the stock market, in which wide price swings are common. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 