D. Risk Factors Due to the relatively new and evolving market that we operate in, we cannot predict whether we will meet internal or external expectations of future performance. Our primary market is in China, where the operating environment is less predictable and mature than those of developed economies and where the Internet industry is still relatively new and fast evolving. We believe our future success depends on our ability to significantly grow our revenues from new and existing products, business models and sales channels. However, market data on our business, especially on emerging products, business models and sales channels, are often limited, unreliable or nonexistent. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in a relatively new and fast changing market and with a limited operating history. These risks include our ability to: • offer new and innovative products; • attract buyers for our mobile value-added services (“MVAS”); • attract advertisers; • attract a larger audience to our network; • derive revenue from our users from fee-based Internet services; • respond effectively to competitive pressures and address the effects of strategic relationships or corporate combinations among our competitors; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships; • increase awareness of our brand and continue to build user loyalty; • attract and retain qualified management and employees; • upgrade our technology to support increased traffic and expanded services; and • expand the content and services on our network, secure premium content and increase network bandwidth in a cost-effective manner. Due to the relatively new and evolving market that we operate in and our limited operating history, our historical year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter trends may not provide a good indication of our future performance. For certain business lines, we have experienced high growth rates in the past and there may be expectations that these growth rates will continue. For other business lines, we have experienced a recent turnaround of declining trends and there may be expectations that the turnaround will last. Our operating results have in the past fallen below the expectations of industry analysts and investors and may do so again in the future. Our stock price may decline significantly as a result of not meeting internal or external expectations of future performance. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including but not limited to our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services, content and products by us or our competitors; significant news events that increase traffic to our websites; technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; demand for advertising space from advertisers; seasonality of the advertising market; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; operators’ policies; governmental regulation; seasonal trends in Internet use; a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust our spending quickly; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the Internet, wireless, e-commerce and the Greater China market. As a result of these and other factors, you should not place 5 Table of Contents undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our quarterly revenue and earnings per share guidance is our best estimate at the time we provide guidance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. We are relying on advertising sales as a significant part of our future revenues, but the online advertising market is subject to many uncertainties, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. The online advertising market is new and evolving rapidly in China. Many of our current and potential advertisers have limited experience with the Internet as an advertising medium, have not traditionally devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures or other available funds to web-based advertising, and may not find the Internet to be effective for promoting their products and services relative to traditional print and broadcast media. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for advertising, our ability to generate increased revenue could be negatively affected. Our ability to generate and maintain significant advertising revenues will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: • the development and retention of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; • the maintenance and enhancement of our brands in a cost effective manner; • increased competition and potential downward pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on web page space; • changes in government policy that curtail or restrict our online advertising services; • the acceptance of online advertising as an effective way for advertisers to market their businesses; • the development of independent and reliable means of verifying levels of online advertising and traffic; and • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems. Our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to online advertising. We may not be successful in getting our current and potential advertisers to increase their budget for online advertising. In 2009, approximately 78% of our advertising revenues were derived from the automobile, real estate, fast-moving consumer goods, financial and telecommunication sectors. If there is a downturn in the advertising spending especially in these sectors, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our share price could suffer. Our growth in advertising revenues, to a certain extent, will also depend on our ability to increase the advertising space on our network. If we fail to increase our advertising space at a sufficient rate, our growth in advertising revenues could be hampered. Further, the increasing usage of Internet advertising blocking software may result in a decrease of our advertising revenues as the advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet if Internet advertising blocking software is widely used. The consolidation of advertising agencies in China could increase the bargaining power of larger advertising agencies, which may adversely impact our revenue growth. Approximately 93% of our advertising revenues in China came through advertising agencies. Some advertising agencies have been seeking consolidation in the market. If such trend continues, the bigger agencies could have more bargaining power against us. As the larger agencies increase their bargaining power, they may demand larger sales rebates, which could reduce our revenue growth. For 2009, our 10 largest advertising agencies in China contributed to 54% of our advertising revenues. As an example, a 10% increase in rebates to our ten largest advertising agencies in 2009 would have reduced our advertising revenue growth in 2009 from the prior year by approximately 1.0%. Focus Media Holding Limited and affiliates as an advertising agency group accounted for approximately 12% of our total net revenues in 2009. 6 Table of Contents We are relying on MVAS for a significant portion of our future revenue. Our MVAS revenues have declined in the past and may decrease further in the future. For 2009 and 2008, MVAS revenues accounted for 33% and 28% of our total net revenues, respectively. Short messaging service (“SMS”) and interactive voice response system (“IVR”) revenues accounted for approximately 45% and 23%, respectively, of our MVAS revenues for 2009. If users do not adopt our MVAS at a sufficient rate, or if our SMS or IVR revenues fail to grow, our MVAS revenue growth could be negatively affected. Our MVAS revenues declined from 2005 through 2007 and may decline in the future. Factors that may prevent us from maintaining or growing our MVAS revenues include: • our ability to develop new services that become accepted by the market; • our ability to retain existing customers of our subscription services; • our ability to attract new subscribers in a cost-effective manner; • our ability to provide satisfactory services to our customers; • competitors, including operators, may launch competing or better products than ours; • changes in policy, process and/or system by China Mobile Communications Corporation (“China Mobile”), China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. (“China Unicom”) or other operators, on whom we rely for service delivery, billing and payment collection, and who in the past have made sudden changes that have significantly impacted our revenues and may continue to do so in the future; and • changes in government regulations, which could restrict our MVAS offerings, curtail our ability to market our services or change user adoption or usage patterns in a negative way. For example, in August 2007, the Ministry of Information Industry (superseded by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology established in March 2008, both of which referred to as “MII”) tightened the regulations over direct advertising in China, which reduced the effectiveness of our direct advertising on MVAS and increased the difficulties of new user recruitment. In December 2007, MII unified the dialing codes of each service provider (“SP”), which increased the number of digits a user must input to subscribe to an SP’s MVAS, thereby making the purchasing process more complicated. MII has proposed requiring mobile users, including pre-paid card subscribers, to register their real identity. Implementation of these changes has led to in the past and may lead to in the future fewer subscriptions of MVAS and a decrease in new customers. In addition to the above, we are relying on new MVAS, such as multimedia messaging service (“MMS”), color ring back tone (“CRBT”), KJAVA/BREW and wireless application protocol (“WAP”), as a significant part of our future revenue growth for MVAS. However, the current market size for these new MVAS is relatively small and adoption rates are still relatively low for these services compared to SMS and IVR services. We cannot assure you that our new MVAS offerings will be accepted by the market or, in light of evolving and/or unclear policies and regulations, will meet the requirements of operator policies and government regulations upon release. If revenues from these services do not grow significantly, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. With respect to MVAS, we rely on China Mobile, China Unicom and other operators for marketing, service delivery, billing and payment collection, and we may be negatively affected by changes which they may make suddenly and unilaterally. Our MVAS offerings depend mainly on cooperation arrangements with China Mobile and China Unicom. In addition, we have arrangements with China Telecommunications Corporation (“China Telecom”). We rely on the operators in the following ways: utilizing their network and gateway to recruit and provide MVAS to subscribers; utilizing their billing systems to charge the fees to our subscribers through the subscribers’ mobile phone bill; utilizing their collection services to collect payments from subscribers; and relying on their infrastructure development to further develop new products and services. As of December 31, 2009, we offered our MVAS pursuant to relationships with 31 provincial and local subsidiaries of China Mobile and 12 provincial subsidiaries of China Unicom. As we have limited bargaining power against the operators, we may enter into cooperation 7 Table of Contents agreements on terms that are unfavorable to us. The operators may also unilaterally terminate or amend the agreements at any time. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators choose not to continue the cooperation arrangements with us or if they unilaterally amend the cooperation arrangements with terms significantly unfavorable to us, our MVAS revenues and operating profitability could be materially and negatively affected. In the past, operators have made sudden and unexpected changes in their policies, processes and systems, which have harmed, and may continue to harm, our business. For example: • In mid-2004, operators began transitioning SMS to new billing platforms, which has resulted in added operational controls and procedures in areas such as customer subscription and customer billing. Such change has increased the difficulties of new user recruitment and the failure rate for fee collection from our SMS users. • In January 2005, China Mobile stopped its “MMS Album” service, which allowed users to retrieve their subscribed MMS messages from China Mobile’s website when the subscribed MMS messages could not be successfully delivered to their mobile phones. With the termination of MMS Album, we were no longer able to collect fees from users when the MMS messages could not be delivered to such users’ mobile phones. • Beginning March 2005, China Mobile migrated MMS onto a new billing platform, which resulted in added operational controls and procedures and, correspondingly, increased the difficulties of new user recruitment and increased the failure rate for fee collection from our users. • In April 2006, China Unicom issued a new policy that sets price ceilings for usage-based and monthly subscription SMS. Such change may require us to lower our current prices on certain SMS services or discontinue offering these services completely. • In July 2006, China Mobile made significant changes to its policy on subscription-based MVAS, which included requiring double confirmations on new MVAS subscriptions as well as sending SMS reminders to existing monthly subscribers of SMS, MMS and WAP to inform them of their MVAS subscription and fee information. In addition, China Mobile’s provincial subsidiaries began canceling existing WAP subscriptions that have been inactive for four months and existing SMS subscriptions of users who did not successfully receive more than three SMS messages during the month. These policy changes from China Mobile reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers and increased the churn rate of existing monthly MVAS subscribers. • In September 2006, China Unicom began enforcing a policy of double confirmation on new MVAS subscriptions. Such change significantly reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers. • In April 2007, China Unicom changed its service fee settlement method with service providers from estimated collection to actual collection. As a result of the switch, fee settlement, based on the receipt of billing statement, with China Unicom has taken up to four months, which has negatively impacted our cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to rely on historical confirmation rates from China Unicom as a result of the change in fee settlement method, we may need to defer recognition of such revenues until the billing statements are received. • In July 2007, China Mobile began implementing a score and ranking system that rewards larger, higher growth service providers with lesser user complaints. Receiving a low score or ranking, e.g., as a result of too many complaints filed by our MVAS customers, could result in a negative impact to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. • In August 2007, the MII tightened the regulations over direct advertising in China. This change reduced the effectiveness of our direct advertising on MVAS and increased the difficulties of new user recruitment. We have not been able to accurately estimate the impact of such change on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, but believe it has had and will continue to have a significant negative impact to our MVAS business. 8 Table of Contents • In December 2007, the MII unified the dialing codes of each service provider by adding a four-digit code to each service provider’s product. This complicated the purchasing process of MVAS and reduced the effectiveness of our direct advertising and increased the difficulties of new user recruitment. • In November 2009, China Mobile implemented a series of measures targeted at eliminating offensive or unauthorized content for the WAP product line. As part of this effort, China Mobile has suspended billing customers of WAP services, including those that do not contain offensive or unauthorized content, on behalf of third-party service providers of such services. The ultimate impact of these measures to the Company’s MVAS revenues is currently unknown. For the fourth quarter of 2009, approximately 9% of the Company’s MVAS revenues were derived from WAP services. China Mobile has not yet indicated how long its new measures will last or whether it would expand its current measures. • In January 2010, China Mobile implemented a series of measures that included limiting the service offerings and partnerships allowed for each SMS service code, preventing the television and radio promotion of certain interactive IVR products and requiring additional notices and customer confirmations in the MVAS ordering process. These measures have had a negative impact to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our operators could make further changes at any time, including, but not limited to, requiring SPs to use the operators’ customer service and/or marketing service and charging for these services; requiring SPs to migrate their MVAS to an operator’s platform and increase the fees charged for using the operator’s platform; changing their fee structure or billing method in a way that would require us to delay the recognition of MVAS revenues from an accrual basis to when actual billing is received; implementing new billing rules, such as reducing MVAS fees that can be charged to users; disallowing SPs to bill certain inactive users and limiting the amount of MVAS fees that can be billed; requiring SPs to absorb end customer bad debts; issuing new rules on how WAP SPs are placed on their browsers, which significantly determines WAP revenues; refusing to pay SPs for services delivered; and limiting the product offerings of SPs by working directly with content providers to launch competing services or giving exclusive rights to certain SPs to offer certain MVAS. Any change in policy, process or system by the operators could result in a material reduction of our MVAS revenues. China Mobile, China Unicom and other operators have in the past increased the fees charged for providing their services and may do so again in the future. If they choose to increase such fees, our gross margin for MVAS and our operating profitability may be negatively impacted. These operators have generally retained a certain percentage of the fees for value-added services we provided to our users via their platform for fee collection. In addition, they charge transmission fees for some products such as SMS and MMS on a per message basis, and the rates of such transmission fees vary for different products and message volume. For 2009, we received on average 79% and 78% of the amount we charged to our users via the China Mobile platform and the China Unicom platform, respectively, after they deducted the fees for collection and transmission. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators restrict or disallow some or all MVAS to be charged on a monthly subscription basis, our revenues from MVAS could be severely impacted. We currently charge our users who have registered to be billed on a monthly basis even if they do not use the service in a particular month. If China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators do not allow us to charge monthly fees for users who do not use our service in a particular month, our MVAS revenues could be negatively impacted. For 2009, approximately 13% of our MVAS revenues were derived from monthly subscription products, which mainly consist of SMS, MMS and WAP. In the past, China Mobile and China Unicom imposed penalties on MVAS providers for violating certain operating policies relating to MVAS. In some cases, they stopped making payments to certain SPs for severe violations. To date, the accrued penalties we have received have been insignificant in dollar amounts, but it is difficult to determine the specific conduct that might be interpreted as violating such operating policies. Additionally, operators may unilaterally revise their arrangements with us at any time, which could result in us breaching the new terms and being subject to fines. In the future, if China Mobile, China Unicom or other operators impose more severe penalties on us for policy violations, our revenues from MVAS and operating results may be negatively impacted. 9 Table of Contents We are potentially subject to liability and penalty for delivering inappropriate content through our MVAS. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination of our IVR service at the end of July 2004 was that we had provided inappropriate content to our mobile subscribers through our IVR service. The definition and interpretation of inappropriate content in many cases are vague and subjective. We are not sure whether operators including China Mobile and China Unicom or the Chinese government will find our other mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the MVAS relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our revenues from MVAS may suffer significantly. A portion of our MVAS revenues is currently estimated based on our internal records of billings and transmissions for the month, adjusted for prior period confirmation rates from operators and prior period discrepancies between internal estimates and confirmed amounts from operators. Historically, there have been no significant true up adjustments to our estimates. If there was no consistent confirmation rates trend or if there were continuous significant true up adjustments to our estimates under the new billing platforms, we will need to rely on the billing statements from the operators to record revenues. Due to the time lag of receiving the billing statements, our MVAS revenues may fluctuate with the collection of billing statements if we were to record our MVAS revenues when we receive the billing statements. For example, if an operator switches payment to SPs from estimated collection from users to actual collection, such policy change may cause us to delay the recognition of these revenues until we receive the actual billings and/or until we have reliable information to make such revenue estimates. For the fourth quarter of 2009, approximately 18% of our MVAS revenues were estimated at period end. In the past, China Mobile has requested resettlement of billings that were settled in previous periods and on which payments have been made to us. We have accrued for such credits to revenue based on a rolling history and the true ups between the accrued amounts and actual credit memos issued have not been significant. However, there is no guarantee that China Mobile or other operators will not request resettlement of previously received payments. If China Mobile or other operators request resettlement of billings for a previous period at amounts significantly larger than our credit memo accrual based on historical patterns, our operating results, financial position and cash flow may be severely impacted. If China Mobile’s, China Unicom’s or other operators’ systems encounter technical problems, if they refuse to cooperate with us or if they do not provide adequate service, our MVAS offerings may cease or be severely disrupted, which could have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results. The markets for MVAS and Internet services are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There is significant competition among MVAS providers. A large number of independent MVAS providers, such as Kongzhong Corporation (“Kongzhong”), Tencent Holdings Limited (“Tencent”), TOM Online, Inc. (“TOM Online”), Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. (“Hurray”), Sohu.com Inc. (“Sohu”) and Linktone Ltd. (“Linktone”), compete against us. We may be unable to continue to grow our revenues from these services in this competitive environment. In addition, the major operators in China, including China Mobile and China Unicom, have entered the business of content development. Any of our present or future competitors may offer MVAS that provide significant technology, performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us, and therefore achieve greater market acceptance than ours. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and current and new competitors can launch new websites or services at a relatively low cost. Many companies offer Chinese language content and services, including informational and community features, fee-based services, email and e-commerce services in the Greater China market that may be competitive with our offerings. In addition, providers of Chinese language Internet tools and services may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with large, well-established and well-financed Internet, media or other companies. We also face competition from providers of software and other Internet products and services. In addition, we compete with entities that sponsor or maintain high-traffic websites or provide an initial point of entry for Internet users, such as portals and search sites. Our competitors include existing or emerging PRC Internet portals as well as vertical websites competing in a specific niche such as automobile, finance and IT information. Our competitors in these areas include Baidu.com, Inc. (“Baidu”), Tencent, 10 Table of Contents Netease.com, Inc. (“Netease”), TOM Online, Sohu.com Inc. (“Sohu”), Hexun, East Money, China Finance Online, PCAuto, Auto Home and PCOnline. Many of these companies are large, well-capitalized entities that currently offer, and could further develop or acquire, content and services that compete with those that we offer. Companies such as these may have greater financial and technical resources, better brand recognition, more developed sales and marketing networks, more customers, stronger government relationships and more extensive operating histories. As a result, such companies may be able to quickly provide competitive services and obtain a significant number of customers. We expect that as Internet usage in Greater China increases and the Greater China market becomes more attractive to advertisers and for conducting e-commerce, large global competitors, such as Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) (MSN), Yahoo! Inc. (“Yahoo!”), eBay Inc. (“eBay”), Google, Inc. (“Google”) and America Online Inc. (“AOL”), may increasingly focus their resources on the Greater China market. Some of these global Internet companies may partner with domestic organizations to penetrate the PRC market. We also compete for advertisers with traditional media companies, such as newspapers, television networks and radio stations that have a longer history of use and greater acceptance among advertisers. Although new media companies, such as those in outdoor media, more directly compete with traditional media, such as television, they ultimately compete with us to convert advertisers from traditional media to new media. These competitors include Focus Media Holding Limited (“Focus”), Air Media Group Inc., Vision China Media Inc. and other China-based private or public new media advertising companies. Our other areas of focus for future growth include WAP portal, search, video and Web 2.0 services. We also face intense competition from domestic and international companies in these areas. The main competitors for our WAP portal include Tencent, Shanghai 3G Electronic Engineering Company Ltd. (“Shanghai 3G”), Kongzhong and WAP portals operated by mobile telecom operators such as China Mobile’s Monternet. The main competitors for our search service include Baidu, Yahoo!/Alibaba, Google, Microsoft (Bing), Tencent (Soso) and Netease (Youdao). The main competitors for our instant messaging service include Tencent (QQ), Microsoft (MSN Messenger) and Alibaba/Yahoo! China (Yahoo Messenger). Web 2.0 companies are defined as those that offer tools to: (1) generate traffic through user-generated contents, such as social networks, blogs, micro-blog, video podcasting and album; (2) allow users to communicate, such as instant messaging and email, and/or (3) allow users to personalize individual sites and virtual communities, such as space and group. Our competition in the Web 2.0 space include public companies such as Baidu, Tencent, Netease, Sohu and Microsoft (MSN) as well as private companies such as Youku, 56.com, Tudou, Ku6, PP Live, PP Stream, Bokee, Blogbus, Poco, Blogcn, Shanda (Shanda Interactive), Hexun, Xiaonei.com, Kaixin001.com, hainei.com and 51.com in China and international players such as YouTube, MySpace, Twitter and Facebook. Many of our competitors have a longer history of providing these online services and currently offer a greater breadth of products that may be more popular than our online offerings. Many of these companies are focused solely on one area of our business and are able to devote all of their resources to that business line and can more quickly adapt to changing technology and market conditions. These companies may therefore have a competitive advantage over us with respect to these business areas. A number of our current and potential future competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have, may be able to more quickly react to changing consumer requirements and demands, may deliver competitive services at lower prices or with more desirable features and functionalities and may market more effectively to certain user audiences. Increased competition could result in reduced page views and unique visitors, loss of market share and revenues and lower profit margins. Our business is highly sensitive to the strength of our brands in the marketplace, and we may not be able to maintain current or attract new users, customers and strategic partners for our products and offerings if we do not continue to increase the strength of our brands and develop new brands successfully in the marketplace. Our operational and financial performance is highly dependent on our strong brands in the marketplace. Such dependency will increase further as the number of Internet and mobile users as well as the number of market entrants in China grow. In order to retain existing and attract new Internet users, advertisers, mobile customers and strategic partners, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand awareness and brand loyalty. Consequently, we will need to grow our revenues at least in the same proportion as any increase in brand spending to maintain current levels of profitability. There have been negative press coverage about the Company based on untrue or unsubstantiated rumors in the past, and the Company has taken affirmative 11 Table of Contents steps to address these coverage. However, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to diffuse negative press coverage about the Company to the satisfaction of our investors, users, advertisers, customers and strategic partners. If we are unable to diffuse negative press coverage about the Company, our brands may suffer in the marketplace and our operational and financial performances may be negatively impacted as a result. Our operating results could be adversely affected by the results of CRIC’s operations. Our interest in the equity of CRIC is valued at approximately $572.0 million based on the initial public offering price, which would have represented approximately 35% of our total assets as of December 31, 2009. We report our ownership in CRIC using the equity method of accounting starting from October 1, 2009, and, as such, our net income is impacted by CRIC’s performance. We will report our interest in CRIC one quarter in arrears. If CRIC’s financial results decline, it will negatively impact our financial results and the impact will be reflected in our consolidated financial statements one quarter in arrears. Furthermore, we will not be able to report our quarter and annual results until we have obtained CRIC’s results, and a delay in CRIC’s reporting could adversely affect our reporting schedule and cause the market to react negatively to our stock. Majority ownership and control of the board of directors of CRIC by affiliates of E-House (China) Holding Limited (“E-House”) may limit our ability to influence CRIC. In October 2009, we contributed our online real estate business to CRIC in exchange for approximately 33% of the total outstanding ordinary shares of CRIC. E-House owns approximately 50% of total outstanding ordinary shares of CRIC. As a result, for the foreseeable future, E-House will have the ability to elect a majority of the directors to the board of directors of CRIC. In such cases, the directors designated by E-House have the power to approve a particular matter requiring a majority vote despite the fact that our representatives may vote against the matter. Conversely, with respect to any matter requiring a majority vote, the directors designated by E-House may disapprove a particular matter despite the fact that our representatives may vote in favor of that matter. CRIC’s real estate business is subject to risks that may be different from those affect our business. Certain risk factors pertaining to CRIC as of the filing of its annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2009 are set forth below. We have not updated the risk factors as CRIC has not updated its risk factors subsequent to the filing of its annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2009, and there can be no assurance that those risk factors provide a complete or accurate summary of the risks that are currently applicable to CRIC’s business. Further information regarding CRIC’s risks can be found in CRIC’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and we assume no obligation to investigate or update information made by CRIC in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have outsourced our web page search and certain other advertising business to Google China under a revenue-sharing agreement, and Google China has in effect shut down its operations in mainland China. We have outsourced our web page search and certain other advertising business to Google China under a revenue-sharing arrangement, from which we recognized approximately $3.9 million in 2009. In March 2010, Google announced its decision to redirect searches on Google.cn to Google.com.hk. At the end of March 2010, Google’s Hong Kong-based search engine suffered a major outage for mainland China users, which Google explained was caused by China’s firewall. We are reassessing our cooperation with Google China following Google’s decision to in effect shut down its China search engine. If we experience significant interruptions or delays in service, or if we terminate our agreement with Google China, we may incur additional costs to develop or secure replacement services, our relationship with our users could be harmed and revenues from Google China will cease to exist. If we are unable to keep up with the rapid technological changes of the Internet industry, our business may suffer. The Internet industry is experiencing rapid technological changes. For example, with the advances of search engines, Internet users may choose to access information through search engines instead of web portals. With the advent of Web 2.0, the interests and preferences of Internet users may shift to user-generated content, such as blogs, micro-blog, and video podcasting. As broadband becomes more accessible, Internet users may demand content in 12 Table of Contents pictorial, audio-rich and video-rich format. With the development of 2.5G and the issuance of 3G licenses in China, mobile users may shift from the current predominant text messaging services to newer applications, such as multimedia messaging services, mobile commerce, music and video downloads and mobile games. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate, adapt and support new technologies and industry standards. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our profitability could suffer. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues could be harmed. We are developing new products and services. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. If our efforts to develop, market and sell new products and services to the market are not successful, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, the price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our investment in Web 2.0 services, search and WAP portal may not be successful. Web 2.0 services, such as micro-blog, blog, video podcasting and online communities, search and WAP portal are currently some of the fastest growing online services in the PRC. We have invested and intend to expand in these areas. For example, we developed our own search engine, and we have invested heavily in Web 2.0 services, such as micro-blog, blog, instant messaging, video podcasting and online communities. Some of our competitors have entered these markets ahead of us and have achieved significant market positions. Our main competitors in Web 2.0 services, search and WAP portal include Baidu, Tencent, Netease, Sohu, Google and Microsoft (MSN) and private companies such as Youku, 56.com, Tudou, Ku6, PP Live, PP Stream, Bokee, Blogbus, Yahoo!/Alibaba, China Mobile’s Monternet, Kongzhong, Hexun, Xiaonei.com, Kaixin001.com, hainei.com, 51.com and Shanghai 3G. We have also invested and plan to continue to invest in other technological products and tools, such as building game and music platforms to complement our existing Internet service offerings. Our competitors in these areas tend to be more specialized in their specific markets and may have access to greater resources, which may give them a competitive advantage over us. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in these markets despite our investment of time and funds to address these markets. If we fail to achieve a significant position in these markets, we could fail to realize our intended returns in these investments. Moreover, our competitors who succeed may enjoy increased revenues and profits from an increase in market share in any of these specific markets, and our results and share price could suffer as a result. Our business and growth could suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel who are in high demand. We depend upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, many of whom are difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could harm our business. We have experienced recent changes to our directors and senior management. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, editorial, finance, marketing, sales and customer service employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain the personnel we need to succeed. Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and may result in equity or earnings dilution. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and intend to continue to identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing business. In January 2003 we acquired Memestar Limited, an MVAS company; in March 2004, we acquired Crillion Corporation, an MVAS company; and in October 2004, we acquired Davidhill, an instant messaging technology platform. Acquired businesses or assets 13 Table of Contents may not yield the results we expect. In addition, acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the cost of identifying and consummating acquisitions, and integrating the acquired businesses into ours, may be significant, and the integration of acquired business may be disruptive to our business operations. In addition, we may have to obtain approval from the relevant PRC governmental authorities for the acquisitions and comply with any applicable PRC rules and regulations, which may be costly. In the event our acquisitions are not successful, our financial condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively, which could harm our business. We have expanded rapidly by acquiring companies, entering into joint ventures and forming strategic partnerships. These new businesses, joint ventures and strategic partnerships provide various services such as MVAS, instant messaging and worldwide web search. We anticipate continuous expansion in our business, both through further acquisitions and internal growth, as we address growth in our customer base and market opportunities. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations as a result of acquisitions and overall internal growth requires significant management resources that our locally-based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. In order to manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve and implement operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Further, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with various other websites, Internet and other online service providers and other third parties necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we are not successful in establishing, maintaining and managing our personnel, systems, procedures and controls, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Increases in labor costs and the new labor law in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. A new labor contract law became effective on January 1, 2008 in the PRC. The new labor contract law imposes stricter requirements in terms of signing labor contracts, paying remuneration, stipulating probation and penalties and dissolving labor contracts. In addition, the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, provide that employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid annual leave and employees who waive such vacation at the request of employers shall be compensated by the employer. As a result, our labor costs and future disputes with our employees are expected to increase, which could adversely affect our profitability, business or results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets such as our website. The Chinese government heavily regulates the Internet sector, including the legality of foreign investment in the Chinese Internet sector, the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet and the licensing and permit requirements for companies in the Internet industry. Because some of the laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and evolving, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, so prior court decisions can only be cited for reference but have little precedential value. As a result, in many cases it is difficult to determine what actions or omissions may result in liability. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to China’s government regulation of the Chinese Internet sector include the following: • We only have contractual control over our website in China; we do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services, including computer information services, MVAS or electronic mailbox services. • Uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet business in China, including evolving licensing practices, give rise to the risk that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, which may be disruptive to our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other 14 Table of Contents conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. For example, on July 13, 2006, MII issued The Circular of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services (the “MII Circular 2006”). According to the MII Circular 2006, since the FITE Regulation went into effect, some foreign investors have, by means of delegation of domain names and license of trademarks, conspired with domestic value-added telecom enterprises to circumvent the requirements of FITE Regulations and been engaged in value-added telecom services illegally. In order to further intensify the administration of FITEs, the MII Circular 2006 provides that (i) any domain name used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholder(s); (ii) any trademark used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by the carrier or its shareholder(s); (iii) the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecom carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecom services that the carrier has been approved to provide; and (iv) a value-added telecom carrier shall establish or improve the measures of ensuring safety of network information. As to the companies which have obtained operating licenses for value-added telecom services, they are required to conduct self-examination and self-correction according to the said requirements and report the result of such self-examination and self-correction to MII. Accordingly, Beijing SINA Internet Information Service Co., Ltd., a Chinese company controlled by the Company through contractual arrangement (the “ICP Company”) submitted the Self-Correction Scheme of the ICP Company’s Multi-regional Value-added Telecommunication Business (the “Self-Correction Scheme”) to MII on November 17, 2006. Under the Self-Correction Scheme, (i) the domain name “www.sina.com.cn” mainly used by the ICP Company shall be transferred from Beijing SINA Information Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Beijing Stone Rich Sight Information Technology Co., Ltd.), one of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries (“BSIT”) to the ICP Company, and (ii) the trademark “SINA” used by the ICP Company shall be transferred from BSIT to the ICP Company. The trademark “SINA” and domain name “www.sina.com.cn” have been transferred to the ICP Company. • The numerous and often vague restrictions on acceptable content in China subject us to potential civil and criminal liability, temporary blockage of our website or complete cessation of our website. For example, the State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all Chinese government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. In addition, the newly amended Law on Preservation of State Secrets which will be effective on October 1, 2010 provides that whenever an Internet service provider detects any leakage of state secrets in the distribution of online information, it should stop the distribution of such information and report to the authorities of state security and public security. As per request of the authorities of state security, public security or state secrecy, the Internet service provider should delete any contents on its website that may lead to disclosure of state secrets. Failure to do so on a timely and adequate basis may subject the us to liability and certain penalties given by the State Security Bureau, Ministry of Public Security and/or MII or their respective local counterparts. • Because the definition and interpretation of prohibited content are in many cases vague and subjective, it is not always possible to determine or predict what and how content might be prohibited under existing restrictions or restrictions that might be imposed in the future. For example, in January 2005, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, which regulates radio and television stations in China (“SARFT”), issued a notice prohibiting commercials for MVAS related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations, effective February 2005. This notice could also lead to further actions by other Chinese government authorities to prohibit the sale of such fortune-telling related SMS, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SARFT or other Chinese governmental authorities may prohibit the marketing of other MVAS via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Certain Chinese governmental authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern Internet activities. The areas of regulation currently include, without limitation, online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, online education, online gaming, online transmission of audio-visual programs, online health diagnosis and treatment, and the provision of 15 Table of Contents industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet. Other aspects of our online operations, such as video podcasting or blog services may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when they are put into effect. As a result, we could be subject to severe penalties as discussed above, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and cash flow. For example, effective as of January 31, 2008, the Administrative Provisions on Internet Audio-visual Program Service jointly promulgated by SARFT and MII on December 20, 2007 (the “Audio-visual Program Provisions”) stipulate, among others, that any entity engaged in Internet audio-visual program service must obtain a License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs issued by SARFT or register with SARFT; an applicant for engaging in Internet audio-visual program service must be a state-owned entity or a state-controlled entity with full corporate capacity; and the business to be carried out by the applicant must satisfy the overall planning and guidance catalogue for Internet audio-visual program service determined by SARFT. SARFT and MII jointly held a press conference in February 2008 to answer questions with respect to the Audio-visual Program Provisions. In that press conference, SARFT and MII clarified that the websites that existed before the promulgation of the Audio-visual Program Provisions may, once they are registered with SARFT, continue operating audio-visual services so long as those websites have not been in violation of the laws and regulations. It is unclear based on the Audio-visual Program Provisions whether such requirements only apply to the new market entrants for operating Internet audio-visual program service or such requirements apply to both new applicants and entities that have already obtained the License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs. The Company’s VIEs in China are not state-owned or state-controlled companies, and without the clarification of SARFT and MII made in the above-mentioned press conference they may not be qualified applicants for carrying out Internet audio-visual program services under the Audio-visual Program Provisions. The ICP Company currently holds a License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs issued by SARFT valid through April 16, 2012, showing that the ICP Company has been approved to carry out online transmission service of audio-visual program within such validity term. According to the above-mentioned press conference, the ICP Company is entitled to continue operating its online transmission service of audio-visual program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, considering the requirements set out in the Audio-visual Program Provisions, it is uncertain whether the ICP Company can successfully procure the renewal of the License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs after its expiration. Should any official explanations or implementation rules of the Audio-visual Program Provisions be promulgated by SARFT or MII explicitly forbidding any non-state-controlled entities from engaging in Internet audio-visual program service, SINA may be disqualified from operating online transmission of audio-visual programs after the License for Online Transmission of Audio-visual Programs currently held by the ICP Company expires. • The governing bodies of China’s mobile industry from time to time issue policies that regulate the business practices relating to MVAS. We cannot predict the timing or substance of such new regulations, which may have a negative impact on our business. • On September 28, 2009, the General Administration for Press and Publication (“GAPP”, formerly the State Press and Publications Administration (“SPPA”)), the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published the Notice Regarding the Consistent Implementation of the “Stipulations on ‘Three Provisions’ of the State Council and the Relevant Interpretations of the State Commission Office for Public Sector Reform and the Further Strengthening of the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Internet Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Internet Games” (“Circular 13”). Circular 13 expressly prohibits foreign investors from participating in Internet game operating business via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements. It is not clear yet as to whether other PRC government authorities, such as the MOFCOM, MII will support GAPP to enforce the prohibition of the VIE model that Circular 13 contemplates. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies, the stated positions of MII and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of 16 Table of Contents existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. See “Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties” below for more details. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling ownership. If the PRC government determines that our agreements with these companies are not in compliance with applicable regulations, our business in the PRC could be adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in Internet-related and MVAS businesses, including Internet access, distribution of content over the Internet and MVAS. Accordingly, we operate our Internet-related and MVAS businesses in China through several VIEs that are PRC domestic companies owned principally or completely by certain of our PRC employees or PRC employees of our directly-owned subsidiaries. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective companies and their individual owners, but we have no equity control over these companies. Such restrictions and arrangements are prevalent in other PRC companies we have acquired. See “Item 4.C. Organizational Structure.” We cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, including without limitation the requirements described in the MII Circular 2006, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If we are determined not to be in compliance, the PRC government could levy fines, revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our website, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance under or enforcement of related contracts. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Because PRC regulations restrict our ability to provide Internet content and MVAS directly in China, we are dependent on our VIEs in which we have little or no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate these businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to maintain our China websites despite their contractual obligation to do so. These companies are able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If these companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot be sure would be available. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of the VIEs would always act in the best interests of SINA, especially if they leave SINA. Substantially all profits generated from our VIEs are paid to our subsidiaries in China through related party transactions under contractual agreements. We believe that the terms of these contractual agreements are in compliance with the laws in China. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in China, it is possible that in the future tax authorities in China may challenge the prices that we have used for related party transactions among our entities in China. In the event the tax authorities challenge our VIE structure, we may be forced to restructure our business operation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are in compliance with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the Chinese government may prevent us from advertising or distributing content that it believes is inappropriate and we may be liable for such content or we may have to stop profiting from such content. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet or through MVAS that 17 Table of Contents it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that it believes is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any websites maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or via our MVAS, or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business could be significantly harmed. Because the definition and interpretation of prohibited content is in many cases vague and subjective, it is not always possible to determine or predict what and how content might be prohibited under existing restrictions or restrictions that might be imposed in the future. At the end of July 2004, our IVR service was temporarily terminated by China Mobile for violating certain operating procedures. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination was that we had provided inappropriate content to our mobile subscribers through our IVR service. We are not sure whether operators including China Mobile and China Unicom or the Chinese government will find our other mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the MVAS relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our profit from MVAS will suffer. In January 2005, SARFT, which regulates radio and television stations in China, issued a notice prohibiting commercials for MVAS related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations effective in February 2005. SARFT or other Chinese government authorities may prohibit the marketing of other MVAS via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are also subject to potential liability for content on our websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of China and report content that we suspect may violate Chinese law. It is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our websites. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could cause us to be less competitive. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may initiate litigation against us alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology, license fees could be substantial and may adversely affect our results of operations. The high cost of Internet access could hinder the growth of Internet users in China and thus hamper the expansion of our user base. The cost of Internet access might prevent some users from accessing the Internet and thus cause the growth of Internet users to decelerate. Such deceleration may adversely affect our ability to continue to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to online advertisers. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to scale our systems proportionally with the growing Internet population in China, our website traffic growth could be adversely affected. The website traffic in China has experienced significant growth during the past few years. If we were unable to increase our online content and service delivering capacity accordingly, we might not be able to continuously grow our website traffic. Our operations could be disrupted by unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters or unauthorized tampering with our systems. The continual accessibility of websites and the performance and reliability of our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain users, advertisers and merchants. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce our appeal to advertisers and consumers. Factors that could significantly disrupt our operations include: system failures and outages caused by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events; software errors; computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems; and security breaches related to the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers or other personal information. We have limited backup systems and redundancy. In the past, we experienced an unauthorized tampering of the mail server of our China websites which briefly disrupted our operations. Future disruptions or any of the foregoing factors could damage our reputation, require us to expend significant capital and other resources and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected if any of the above disruptions should occur. We have contracted with third parties to provide content and services for our portal network and we may lose users and revenue if these arrangements are terminated. We have arrangements with a number of third parties to provide content and services to our websites. In the area of content, we have relied and will continue to rely almost exclusively on third parties for content that we publish under the SINA brand. Although no single third-party content provider is critical to our operations, if these parties fail to develop and maintain high-quality and successful media properties, or if a large number of our existing relationships are terminated, we could lose users and advertisers and our brand could be harmed. We have recently experienced fee increases from some of our content providers. If this trend continues, our gross profit from online advertising may be adversely affected. In addition, the Chinese government has the ability to restrict or prevent state-owned media from cooperating with us in providing certain content to us, which will result in a significant decrease of the amount of content we can publish on our websites. We may lose users if the Chinese government chooses to restrict or prevent state-owned media from cooperating with us, in which case our revenues will be impacted negatively. In the area of web-based services, we have contracted with third-party content providers for integrated web search technology to complement our directory and navigational guide, and with various third-party providers for our principal Internet connections. If we experience significant interruptions or delays in service, or if these agreements terminate or expire, we may incur additional costs to develop or secure replacement services and our relationship with our users could be harmed. A substantial part of our non-advertising revenues is generated through MVAS where we depend on mobile network operators for services delivery and payment collection. If we are unable to continue these arrangements, our MVAS could be severely disrupted or discontinued. Furthermore, we are highly dependent on these mobile service providers for our profitability in that they can choose to increase their service fees at will. We depend on a third party’s proprietary and licensed advertising serving technology to deliver advertisements to our network. If the third party fails to continue to support its technology or if its services fail to meet the advertising needs of our customers and we cannot find an alternative solution on a timely basis, our advertising revenues could decline. 19 Table of Contents Concerns about the security of e-commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to e-commerce and communications over the Internet in general has been a public concern over security and privacy, especially the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination sites and impede our growth. The law of the Internet remains largely unsettled, which subjects our business to legal uncertainties that could harm our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, antitrust and characteristics and quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for e-commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet and other online services of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. For example, new tax regulations may subject us or our customers to additional sales and income taxes. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could significantly disrupt our operations or subject us to penalties. We may be subject to claims based on the content we provide over our network and the products and services sold on our network, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. As a publisher and distributor of content and a provider of services over the Internet, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we publish or distribute; the selection of listings that are accessible through our branded products and media properties, or through content and materials that may be posted by users in our classifieds, message board, chat room services, micro-blog, blog, video podcasting and other areas on our websites; losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information published by us, such as stock quotes, analyst estimates or other trading information; unsolicited email, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email or interruptions or delays in email service; and product liability, warranty and similar claims to be asserted against us by end users who purchase goods and services through SINAMall and any future e-commerce services we may offer. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending any potential claims, even if they do not result in liability. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type and may not be adequate to indemnify us against all potential liabilities. We may be subject to litigation for user-generated content provided on our websites, which may be time-consuming to defend. User-generated content (UGC) has become an important source of content to draw traffic to our website. Our UGC platforms, including micro-blog, blog, video podcasting and album, are open to the public for posting. Although we have required our users to post only decent and unobtrusive materials and have set up screening procedures, a third party may still find UGC postings on our website offensive and take action against us in connection with the posting of such information. As with other companies who provide UGC on their websites, we have had to deal with such claims in the past and anticipate that such claims will increase as UGC becomes more popular in China. Any such claim, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and may result in litigation and divert management’s attention and resources. 20 Table of Contents We may have to register our encryption software with Chinese regulatory authorities, and if they request that we change our encryption software, our business operations could be disrupted as we develop or license replacement software. Pursuant to the Regulations for the Administration of Commercial Encryption promulgated at the end of 1999, foreign and domestic Chinese companies operating in China are required to seek approval from the Office of the State for Cipher Code Administration (“OSCCA”), the Chinese encryption regulatory authority, for the commercial encryption products they use; companies operating in China are allowed to use only commercial cipher code products approved by OSCCA and are prohibited to use self-developed or imported cipher code products without approval. In addition, all cipher code products shall be produced by those producers appointed and approved by OSCCA. In December 2005, OSCCA further released a series of rules, effective January 1, 2006, regulating many aspects of commercial cipher code products in detail, including development, production and sales. Because these regulations do not specify what constitutes a cipher code product, we are unsure as to whether or how they apply to us and the encryption software we utilize. We may be required to register, or apply for permits with OSCCA for, our current or future encryption software. If Chinese regulatory authorities request that we register our encryption software or change our current encryption software to an approved cipher code product produced by an appointed producer, it could disrupt our business operations. Privacy concerns may prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising in the future and make us less attractive to advertisers. We collect personal data from our user base in order to better understand our users and their needs and to help our advertisers target specific demographic groups. If privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising, we may become less attractive to advertisers. For example, as part of our future advertisement delivery system, we may integrate user information such as advertisement response rate, name, address, age or email address, with third-party databases to generate comprehensive demographic profiles for individual users. In Hong Kong, however, we would be in violation of the Hong Kong Personal Data Ordinance unless individual users expressly consented to this integration of their personal information. The ordinance provides that an Internet company may not collect information about its users, analyze the information for a profile of the user’s interests and sell or transmit the profiles to third parties for direct marketing purposes without the user’s consent. If we are unable to construct demographic profiles of Internet users because they refuse to give consent, we will be less attractive to advertisers and our business could suffer. We must rely on the Chinese government to develop China’s Internet infrastructure and, if it does not develop this infrastructure, our ability to grow our business could be hindered. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Although private sector ISPs exists in China, almost all access to the Internet is accomplished through ChinaNet, China’s primary commercial network, which is owned and operated by China Telecom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of MII. Although the Chinese government has announced plans to aggressively develop the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be timely developed. We have experienced slower response time and suffered outages in the past due to equipment and software downtime as well as bandwidth issues with operators. Although these instances have not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, such instances could have a material impact on its business in the future. In addition, we have no guarantee that we will have access to alternative networks and services in the event of any disruption or failure. If the necessary infrastructure standards or protocols or complementary products, services or facilities are not timely developed by the Chinese government, the growth of our business could be hindered. Political and economic conditions in Greater China and the rest of Asia are unpredictable and may disrupt our operations if these conditions become unfavorable to our business. We expect to derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from the Greater China market. Changes in political or economic conditions in the region are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause the Greater China market to become less attractive to advertisers, which could reduce our revenues. We maintain a strong local identity and presence in each of the regions in the Greater China market and we cannot be 21 Table of Contents sure that we will be able to effectively maintain this local identity if political conditions were to change. The growth rate of the Chinese economy, and neighboring economies, slowed significantly in the wake of the global financial crisis. It is uncertain how long the global financial crisis will last and how much impact it will have on the Chinese and neighboring economies. If declining economic growth rates persist in these countries, expenditures for Internet access, infrastructure improvements, advertising and MVAS could decrease, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business and our profitability. Economic reforms in the region could also affect our business in ways that are difficult to predict. For example, since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the Chinese economic system to emphasize enterprise autonomy and the utilization of market mechanisms. Although we believe that these reform measures have had a positive effect on the economic development in China, we cannot be sure that they will be effective or that they will benefit our business. Future outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), H1N1 flu (“Swine flu”), Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business. Future outbreaks of SARS, Swine flu, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems in China and surrounding areas, where most of our employees work, could negatively impact our business in ways that are hard to predict. Prior experience with the SARS virus suggests that a future outbreak of SARS, Swine flu, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems may lead public health authorities to enforce quarantines, which could result in closures of some of our offices and other disruptions of our operations. A future outbreak of SARS, Swine flu, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could result in the reduction of our advertising and fee-based revenues. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still young and the business insurance products offered in China are limited. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our resources. Our significant amount of deposits in certain banks in China may be at risk if these banks go bankrupt or otherwise not have the liquidity to pay us during our deposit period. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $331.5 million in cash and bank deposits, such as time deposits (with terms generally up to twelve months) and bank notes, with large domestic banks in China. The remaining cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by financial institutions in Hong Kong and the United States. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to twelve months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which came into effect on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s concession to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been strong competitors against Chinese banks in many aspects, especially since the opening of renminbi business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy of those Chinese banks in which we have deposits has increased. In the event of bankruptcy of any one of the banks which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to claim our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. If tax benefits available to us in China are reduced or repealed, our results of operations could suffer significantly and your investment in our shares may be adversely affected. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands where no income taxes are imposed for business operated outside of the Cayman Islands. We have operations in four tax jurisdictions including China, the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan. For the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan, we have incurred net accumulated operating losses for income tax purposes. We believe that it is more likely than not that these net accumulated operating losses will not be utilized to offset taxable income in the future and hence we have not recognized income tax benefits for these locations. We do not expect that we will record any income tax provisions for our operations in the U.S., Hong Kong and Taiwan in the foreseeable future. 22 Table of Contents We generated substantially all our net income from our China operations. Our China operations are conducted through various subsidiaries and VIEs. Due to our operation and tax structures in the PRC, we have entered into technical and other service agreements between our directly-owned subsidiaries and our VIEs in the PRC. We incur a business tax of up to 5% when our directly-owned subsidiaries receive the fees from the VIEs pursuant to such service agreements, which we include in our operating expenses as the cost of transferring economic benefit generated from these VIEs. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the tax transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in the PRC, it is possible that tax authorities in the PRC might in the future challenge the transfer prices that we used for the related party transactions among our entities in the PRC. Beginning January 1, 2008, the new Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) and the Implementing Rules of the EIT Law (the “Implementing Rules”) approved by the State Council became effective in China, which require, among other things, enterprises in China to submit their annual enterprise income tax returns together with a report on transactions with their affiliates to the relevant tax authorities. The EIT law and the Implementing Rules emphasize the arm’s length basis for transactions between related entities. If PRC tax authorities were to determine that our transfer pricing structure were not on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing, they could request that our VIEs adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment may not reduce the tax expenses of our subsidiaries but could adversely affect us by increasing our VIEs’ tax expenses, which could subject our VIEs to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes, and/or could result in the loss of tax benefits available to our subsidiaries in China. The EIT Law supplemented by the Implementing Rules supersedes the previous Income Tax Law (the “Previous IT Law”) and unifies the enterprise income tax rate for foreign-invested enterprises (“FIEs”) and domestic enterprises at 25%. High and new technology enterprises will continue to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%, but must meet the criteria defined under the EIT Law and related regulations. The EIT Law provides for a five-year transitional period for certain entities that enjoyed a favorable income tax rate of less than 25% and/or a preferential tax holiday under the Previous IT Law and was established before March 16, 2007, during which period the applicable enterprises income tax rate shall gradually increase to 25%. In addition, the EIT Law provides grandfather treatment for high and new technology enterprises that received special tax holidays under the Previous IT Law, which allows them to continue to enjoy their tax holidays until expiration provided that specific conditions are met. In December 2009, three of our subsidiaries in China were qualified as high and new technology enterprises under the EIT Law. In addition, certain VIEs in China enjoy a favorable income tax rate of less than 25%. According to the EIT Law and the Administration Measures for Recognition of High and new Technology Enterprises, which was jointly promulgated by the Ministry of Science & Technology, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Administration of Taxation on April 14, 2008, the high and new technology enterprise status of our three subsidiaries is subject to an annual review and may be overturned by the Municipal Science & Technology Commission in the future. The EIT Law is relatively new and implementation practices are still being defined. If tax benefits available to us as high and new technology enterprises in China are reduced or repealed, our net effective tax rate may increase to as high as 25%. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established under the laws of foreign countries or regions but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes and consequently be subject to the PRC income tax at the rate of 25% for its global income. The Implementing Rules of the EIT Law merely defines the location of the “de facto management body” as “the place where the exercising, in substance, of the overall management and control of the production and business operation, personnel, accounting, properties, etc., of a non-PRC company is located.” Based on a review of surrounding facts and circumstances, we do not believe that it is likely that our operations outside the PRC should be considered a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. However, due to limited guidance and implementation history of the EIT Law, if SINA is treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on worldwide income at a uniform tax rate of 25% retroactive to January 1, 2008. 23 Table of Contents We may incur a significant withholding tax should we decide to distribute earnings made on or after January 1, 2008, outside of the PRC. The EIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends generated on or after January 1, 2008 and distributed by a resident enterprise to its foreign investors, if such foreign investors are considered as non-resident enterprise without any establishment or place within China or if the received dividends have no connection with such foreign investors’ establishment or place within China, unless such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Such withholding income tax was exempted under the Previous IT Law. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such tax treaty with China. According to the arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion in August 2006, dividends paid by an FIE to its foreign investors in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the FIE). A majority of our subsidiaries in China are directly invested and held by Hong Kong registered entities. If we are regarded as a non-resident enterprise and our Hong Kong entities are regarded as resident enterprises, then our Hong Kong entities may be required to pay a 10% withholding tax on any dividends payable to us. If our Hong Kong entities are regarded as non-resident enterprises, then our subsidiaries in China will be required to pay a 5% withholding tax for any dividends payable to our Hong Kong entities provided that specific conditions are met. In either case, the amount of funds available to us, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders, could be materially reduced. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the concept of “the place of de facto management body,” if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, under the EIT Law, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders will be subject to PRC withholding tax. We also cannot guarantee that any gains realized by such non-PRC shareholders from the transfer of our shares will not be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders or any gains realized by our non-PRC shareholders from transfer of the shares, their investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. The current policy approved by our Board allows us to distribute PRC earnings offshore only if we do not have to pay a dividend tax. Such policy may require us to reinvest all earnings made since 2008 onshore indefinitely or be subject to a significant withholding tax should our policy change to allow for earnings distribution offshore. We may be subject to a significant withholding tax should equity transfers by our non-China tax resident enterprises be determined to have been done without a reasonable business purpose. In December 2009, the State Administration of Tax in China issued a circular on strengthening the management of proceeds from equity transfers by non-China tax resident enterprises and requires foreign entities to report indirect sales of China tax resident enterprises. If the existence of the overseas intermediary holding company is disregarded due to lack of reasonable business purpose or substance, gains on such sale are subject to PRC withholding tax. We believe that there was reasonable business purpose for the merger of COHT with CRIC, which was to realize the business synergy created by the merger to form a real estate information services platform both online and offline with diversified revenue streams, serving both real estate businesses and consumers. The merger of COHT with CRIC was made with the intent to vertically integrate the selling of real estate data and consulting services (B2B) with online advertising (B2C) and to leverage the strength of CRIC’s offline resources with SINA online strengths. Together, COHT and CRIC became a real estate information, consulting and advertising space in China. The subsequent initial public offering allowed the combined company to raise additional capital to fund its future growth. Due to limited guidance and implementation history of the new circular, significant judgment is required in the determination of a reasonable business purpose for an equity transfer by our non-China tax resident entity by considering factors, including but not limited to, the form and substance of the arrangement, time of establishment of the foreign entity, relationship between each step of the arrangement, relationship between each component of the arrangement, implementation of the arrangement and the changes in the financial position of all parties involved in the transaction. Although we believe that it is more likely than not the said transaction would be determined as one with a reasonable business purpose, should this not be the case, we would be subject to a 24 Table of Contents significant withholding tax that could materially and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us bind our subsidiaries and VIEs in China. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations in China other than our investments in our entities in China, including SINA.com Technology (China) Co., Ltd. (“STC”), SINA Technology (China) Co., Ltd. (“SNTC”), Beijing New Media Information Technology Co. Ltd., Beijing SINA Advertising Co. Ltd., SINA (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd., Shanghai SINA Advertising Co. Ltd., Fayco Network Technology Development (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd., and our VIEs. As a result, if our non-China operations require cash from China, we would depend on dividend payments from our subsidiaries in China for our revenues after they receive payments from our VIEs in China under various services and other arrangements. We cannot make any assurance that our subsidiaries in China can continue to receive the payments as arranged under our contracts with those VIEs. To the extent that these VIEs have undistributed after-tax net income, we have to pay tax on behalf of the employees when we try to distribute the dividend from these local entities in the future. Such withholding individual income tax rate is 20%. In addition, under Chinese law, our subsidiaries are only allowed to pay dividends to us out of their distributable earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Moreover, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after-tax profit each year, if any, to fund certain mandated reserve funds, unless these reserves have reached 50% of their registered capital. These reserve funds are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the convertibility of renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currency out of China in certain cases. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenues and profits in U.S. dollar terms.” If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenues and profits in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan use their respective local currencies as their functional currencies. The majority of our revenues derived and expenses incurred are in Chinese renminbi with a relatively small amount in New Taiwan dollars, Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Starting July 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese renminbi has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese renminbi appreciated approximately 6.5%, 6.4% and less than 1.0% against the U.S. dollar in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of Chinese renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese renminbi or any other foreign currency will be stable against the U.S. dollar. The income statements of our China, Hong Kong and Taiwan operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in reduced revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar and New Taiwan Dollar denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international 25 Table of Contents operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of Chinese renminbi into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of Chinese renminbi into foreign exchange for most of the capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of Chinese renminbi in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenues may be in the form of Chinese renminbi, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Chinese renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, or to repay non-renminbi-denominated obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We have $99 million of zero-coupon, convertible, subordinated notes due 2023, or possibly earlier upon a change of control, which we may not be able to repay in cash and could result in dilution of our basic earnings per share. In July 2003, we issued $100 million of zero coupon convertible subordinated notes due July 15, 2023. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of our convertible notes was $99 million. On July 15 annually from 2007 to 2013, and on July 15, 2018, or upon a change of control, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the notes for cash. In addition, each $1,000 principal amount of the notes is convertible into 38.7741 shares of our ordinary shares prior to July 15, 2023 if the sale price of our ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the notes reaches a specified threshold or specified corporate transactions have occurred. One of the conditions for conversion of the notes to SINA ordinary shares is that the market price of SINA ordinary shares reaches a specified threshold for a defined period of time. The specified thresholds are (i) during the period from issuance to July 15, 2022, if the sale price of SINA ordinary shares, for each of any five consecutive trading days in the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, exceeds 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share, and (ii) during the period from July 15, 2022 to July 15, 2023, if the sale price of SINA ordinary shares on the previous trading day is more than 115% of the conversion price per ordinary share. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, the sale price of SINA ordinary shares exceeded the threshold set forth in item (i) above for the required period of time. Therefore, the notes are convertible into SINA ordinary shares during the three months ending June 30, 2010. Upon a conversion, we may choose to pay the purchase price of the notes in cash, ordinary shares, or a combination of cash and ordinary shares. We may not have enough cash on hand or have the ability to access cash to pay the notes if holders ask for repayment on the various put dates, or upon a change of control, or at maturity. In addition, the purchase of our notes with our ordinary shares or the conversion of the notes into our ordinary shares could result in dilution of our basic earnings per share. Changes to accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our reported results of operations or how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. For example, we adopted accounting guidance on stock-based compensation starting January 1, 2006. This guidance requires us to measure compensation costs for all share-based compensation at fair value and take compensation charges equal to that value. The method that we use to determine the fair value of share options is based upon, 26 Table of Contents among other things, the volatility of our ordinary shares. The method that we use to determine the fair value of restricted share units is based upon the market price of our ordinary shares on the date of the grant. The price of our ordinary shares has historically been volatile. Therefore, the requirement to measure compensation costs for all share-based compensation under this guidance could negatively affect our profitability and the trading price of our ordinary shares. This guidance and the impact of expensing on our reported results could also limit our ability to continue to use share options or other share-based instruments as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, such as accounting guidance on uncertain tax positions, the EIT Law in China which was effective January 1, 2008, and various interpretations of accounting pronouncement or taxation practice have been adopted and may be adopted in the future. These accounting standard and tax regulation changes, future changes and the uncertainties surrounding current practices and implementation procedures may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Prior to 2008, our MVAS business had been on a continuous decline in recent years. We used a blended market and income approach for the assessment of mobile goodwill and the assumptions used were based on the information available to us at the time. Further decline in the performance of our mobile operations, in the price over earnings multiples of our peers in the MVAS industry and other factors may require us to record a significant charge to earnings if an impairment is determined at a future date. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill related to our MVAS operation was approximately $68.9 million. As of December 31, 2009, other goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $18.8 million. Exacerbated by the global financial crisis, our stock price has been volatile in the past year. The closing price of our stock price as of December 31, 2009 was $45.18. A significant decline in the performance of our business or our stock price may result in a material impairment charge to earnings. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Our stock price has been historically volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be subject to considerable daily fluctuations. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the closing sale prices of our ordinary shares on 27 Table of Contents the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $17.89 to $47.95 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, new governmental restrictions or regulations and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for China-related and Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. The Chinese legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs in China are governed by the laws of the PRC. China’s legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, and therefore you may not have legal protections for certain matters in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us. We conduct our operations in China and a significant portion of our assets is located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon those directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China recognizes and enforces judgment of foreign courts based on treaties on recognizing and enforcing each other’s judgment or the reciprocal principle with foreign countries. China does not have treaties with the U.S. and some other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in these jurisdictions may be difficult or impossible. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. As explained below, we may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current or a future taxable year. In the event we are determined to be a PFIC, our stock may become less attractive to U.S. investors, thus negatively impacting the price of our stock. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To determine if at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may use the market capitalization method of determining the value of our assets. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company is considered to equal the fair market value of its outstanding shares plus its outstanding indebtedness on a relevant testing date. Because the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to fluctuate and may be volatile, and the market price may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a PFIC, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are characterized as a PFIC for any year, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to any dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. holders, and having potential interest charges apply to any dividends or the proceeds of share sales. 28 Table of Contents Our executive officers have substantial influence over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially control, in the aggregate, approximately 9.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of April 26, 2010. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to influence the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our ordinary shares by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and SINA’s shareholder rights plan may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change in control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or from otherwise engaging in a merger or similar transaction with us. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue up to 3,750,000 preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if the Board of Directors issues preference shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Similarly, the Board of Directors may approve the issuance of debentures convertible into voting shares, which may limit the ability of others to acquire control of us. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our existing shareholders would have the right to purchase ordinary shares from the Company at half the market price then prevailing in the event a person or group acquires more than 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares on terms our Board of Directors does not approve. As a result, such rights could cause substantial dilution to the holdings of the person or group which acquires more than 10%. Accordingly, the shareholder rights plan may inhibit a change in control or acquisition and could adversely affect a shareholder’s ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for the ordinary shares in connection with such a transaction. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO CHINA REAL ESTATE INFORMATION CORPORATION The following risk factors were included in the annual report on Form 20-F of China Real Estate Information Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2009. We have not updated the risk factors as CRIC has not updated its risk factors subsequent to the filing of its annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that the following risk factors provide a complete or accurate summary of the risks that are currently applicable to CRIC’s business. Further information regarding CRIC’s risks can be found in CRIC’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and we assume no obligation to investigate or update information made by CRIC in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 29 Table of Contents In the following risk factors, except where the context otherwise requires and for purposes of the following risk factors only: • “we,” “us,” “our company,” “the Company,” “our” and “CRIC” refer to China Real Estate Information Corporation, its subsidiaries, and, in the context of describing CRIC’s operations and consolidated financial information, include CRIC’s consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in China; • “E-House” refers to E-House (China) Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries, including E-House’s VIEs in China, but excluding CRIC; and • “ADS” refer to American depositary receipts for CRIC’s ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Information, Consulting and Advertising Services Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. Our CRIC system had been used as an internal resource to support E-House’s real estate agency and brokerage services and information and consulting services prior to the second half of 2006, when we began to commercialize our CRIC system by selling subscriptions. In addition, we had not previously provided real estate advertising services or operated a real estate Internet business prior to 2008. Furthermore, our business strategy has not been proven over a long period of time and we have only been operating our business as a stand-alone public company since October 2009. Therefore, our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business and prospects. To date, a limited number of real estate developers have contributed a substantial portion of our revenues due to the large size of their contracts with us; if we fail to continue to secure large contracts from existing, new or former clients, this could materially and adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition, or cause fluctuations in our revenues, which may make it difficult to predict our future results of operations. In the past, a limited number of real estate developers have contributed a substantial portion of our revenues. Our top three developer clients in 2008, namely Evergrande Real Estate Group, or Evergrande, Shanghai Urban Development (Group) Co., Ltd. and Sky East Resources Ltd. (including their subsidiaries and branches), accounted for 56.6%, 15.6% and 10.3%, respectively, of our total revenues in 2008, while no other clients accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues during such period. Our top two developer clients in 2009, namely Evergrande and Shanghai Jinluodian Development Co., Ltd accounted for 29.7% and 11.3% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, while no other clients accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues during such period. Sky East Resources Ltd. has not sought further services from us since 2009 and Shanghai Jinluodian Development Co., Ltd. has not sought further service from us in 2010 to date. There remains the risk that if we fail to continue to secure large contracts from existing, new or former clients, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ability or inability to secure new large contracts or renew existing large contracts may also cause fluctuations in our revenues, which may make it difficult to predict our future results of operations. Generally, we maintain business relationships with national and regional real estate developers’ local subsidiaries or branches, and enter into individual contracts with each subsidiary or branch. However, in limited cases, such as our relationship with Evergrande, we maintain the business relationship with the headquarters of the real estate developer. We entered into a strategic cooperation agreement in December 2007 with Evergrande. Under this agreement, we were engaged as the exclusive provider of real estate information and market consulting services to 37 of Evergrande’s real estate projects under development for one year. In December 2008, Evergrande renewed the strategic cooperation agreement for 2009, again for 37 of Evergrande’s real estate projects under development. In December 2009, we were engaged to provide real estate information and market consulting services to 48 of its real estate projects for 2010. Evergrande could refuse to renew the agreement with us upon expiration of its term in December 2010, terminate the agreement before its expiration, substantially reduce its business with us in the future, or become unable or refuse to pay our fees or continue to engage our services due to financial difficulties it 30 Table of Contents may experience or for other reasons. If any of the foregoing occurs, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our business is susceptible to fluctuations in the real estate market of China, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on the conditions of the real estate market in China. Demand for private residential real estate in China has grown rapidly in the past decade but such growth is often accompanied by volatility in market conditions and fluctuations in real estate prices. For example, following a period of rising real estate prices and transaction volume in most major cities from 2003 to 2007, the industry experienced a downturn in 2008, with transaction volume in many major cities declining significantly compared to 2007. Average selling prices also declined in many cities during 2008. Fluctuations of supply and demand in China’s real estate market are caused by economic, social, political and other factors. Since early 2009, China’s real estate market has rebounded and many cities have experienced increases in real estate prices and transaction volumes. This rebound has coincided with a sharp rise in the volume of bank loans as part of China’s response to the global economic crisis. Bank regulators in China have expressed concern about excessive lending for real estate investments. The Chinese control government has also expressed concern about property prices rising too fast and has taken several stringent measures to curb perceived real estate market speculations while encouraging the development of more affordable housing. Such efforts by the government to slow property price appreciation could reduce the activities in the real estate market and lessen real estate transaction volume, and prevent developers from raising capital they need or increase their costs to start new projects. To the extent fluctuations in the real estate market significantly affect demand for real estate information and consulting services from our clients, which are primarily real estate developers, our revenues and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by government measures affecting China’s real estate industry. The real estate industry in China is subject to government regulations, including measures that are intended to affect the growth rate of the industry. Before the global economic crisis in 2008, the PRC government had adopted a series of measures to restrain what it perceived as unsustainable growth in the real estate market. For example, the State Council and other related government agencies introduced regulations in 2006 that increased mandatory minimum down payments from 20% to 30% of the purchase price for properties with a floor area of more than 90 square meters and imposed a business tax on total proceeds from the resale of properties held for less than five years. In 2008, the PRC government relaxed some restrictions and introduced measures aimed at stimulating residential property purchases by individuals and stabilizing the real estate market. On October 22, 2008, for example, the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation and the People’s Bank of China lowered transaction taxes, minimum down payment requirements, and the mortgage interest rate for certain residential real estate transactions. In December 2008, the General Office of the State Council promulgated rules that exempted certain residential real estate transactions from business tax and urban real estate tax. In 2009, the PRC government started tightening its real estate policies again in response to rising property prices and perceptions of widespread property speculation. On January 1, 2010, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation re-imposed the business tax on total proceeds from the resale of certain residential properties held for less than five years. The China Banking Regulatory Authority withdrew its earlier policy and emphasized the minimum 40% down payment requirement for mortgages for second properties. On March 8, 2010, the Ministry of Land and Resources issued a circular to further strengthen the supervision on land supply, requiring a real estate developer to pay at least 50% of the land premium within one month and 100% within one year after the land use right contract is executed. On April 17, 2010, the State Council issued the Circular on Firmly Restraining Soaring Housing Prices in Certain Cities. According to this circular, 31 Table of Contents • Down payment for the first self-use housing unit purchased by a family with a gross construction area of more than 90 square meters must be no less than 30% of the purchase price; • The minimum down payment for the second housing unit purchased by a family is increased from 40% to 50% and the loan interest rate must be no less than 110% of benchmark lending interest rate; • Down payment for the third or more housing unit purchased by any family and the loan interest rate must be further increased significantly based on the rate for the first and second housing units, as determined by commercial banks based on their assessment of the risks; furthermore, in regions where commercial housing unit prices are too high or have risen too fast or supply of housing units is insufficient, commercial banks may suspend extending loans to families for their purchases of the third or more housing unit; • Commercial banks may suspend extending loans to individuals for their purchase of housing units outside the region where they reside, if they cannot furnish evidence of their payment of tax or social insurance premium for at least one year locally in the region where the subject housing units are located; • Local governments are allowed to limit the total number of housing units one can purchase in certain period in light of the local situation. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not adopt new measures in the future that may result in lower growth rates in the real estate industry. Frequent changes in government policies may also create uncertainty that could discourage investment in real estate. Our business may be materially and adversely affected as a result of decreased transaction volumes or real estate prices that may follow these adjustments or market uncertainty, which may in turn negatively affect real estate developers’ business and reduce their demand for real estate information and consulting services. We may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategy of expanding our client base and increasing the average spending of our clients on our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. To continue to grow our revenues derived from our services, we will need to expand our client base and increase the average spending of our clients on our services. These efforts will involve aggressively marketing our services to real estate developers and also other client groups such as real estate suppliers, governmental agencies, universities, research institutes and financial institutions. Meanwhile, we will also need to promote additional or premium services to our existing clients. Our proprietary real estate information database and analysis system, which we refer as the CRIC system may not be well accepted by our targeted prospective clients, or we may not be successful in selling additional or premium services to our existing clients. If our efforts to expand our client base and increase the average spending of our clients on our services are not successful, our results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of expanding into new geographical markets in China, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. As of December 31, 2009, we provide real estate information, consulting and advertising services in 107 cities in China. We may expand our operations to more cities in the future. Expanding into new geographical markets imposes additional burdens on our research, systems development, sales, marketing and general managerial resources. As China market is a large and diverse market, client trends and demands may vary significantly by region. Our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China. If we are unable to manage our expansion effectively, if our expansion efforts take longer than planned or if our costs for such expansion exceed our expectations, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we incur significant costs to expand data coverage for our existing markets but are not successful in marketing and selling our services in these markets, our data expansion efforts may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by increasing our expenses without increasing our revenues. 32 Table of Contents We are not likely to sustain the high growth rate we have experienced up to now; if we cannot manage our growth effectively and efficiently, our results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues have grown significantly in a relatively short period of time. We have experienced substantial growth since 2006, when E-House began to commercialize the CRIC system to provide real estate information services in select cities. Our revenues increased from $8.2 million in 2007 to $50.0 million in 2008 and 95.7 million in 2009. In October 2009, we completed our initial public offering and acquisition of SINA’s 66% equity interest in COHT, an entity that had operated SINA’s online real estate business. Our revenue in 2009 included $13.8 million attributable to COHT. Over the same years, we increased the number of cities covered by our CRIC system from 22 as of December 31, 2007 to 54 as of December 31, 2008 and 75 as of December 31, 2009. COHT also increased the number of cities covered from 48 as of June 30, 2009 to 83 as of December 31, 2009. We intend to continue to expand our operations. We are not likely, however, to sustain a similar growth rate in revenues or net income in future periods due to a number of factors, including, among others, the greater difficulty of growing at sustained rates from a larger revenue base and the potential increases in costs and expenses as a stand-alone public company. Accordingly, our historical growth rate is not an indication of our future performance. Our expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain the quality of our CRIC system and related services to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the quality of our information and consulting services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls. We must also recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. With our operations expanding into more cities throughout China, we will face increasing challenges in managing a large and geographically dispersed group of employees. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new expansion into our operations. As a result, our reputation, business and operations may suffer. The real estate information and consulting services sector in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. If our business model proves to be inappropriate or suboptimal or if new competitors emerge to better serve the real estate industry, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The real estate information and consulting services sector in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and we cannot predict how this industry will develop in the future. The development of the real estate information and consulting services sector will depend to a large extent on continued and growing demand by real estate developers and other industry participants for such services. Our business model may prove to be inappropriate or suboptimal as the industry develops. In addition, new competitors that are better adapted to the changing real estate industry may emerge, which could cause us to lose market share in key market segments. Any failure on our part to adapt to changes in the real estate information and consulting services sector may materially and adversely affect the growth of our business. Our results of operations may fluctuate or otherwise be materially and adversely affected due to seasonal variations and the project-by-project nature of some of our real estate consulting services. Our operating income and earnings have historically been substantially lower during the first quarter than other quarters. This results from the relatively low level of real estate activities during the Winter and the Chinese New Year holiday period, which falls within the first quarter each year. We generated a majority of our total revenues from services provided to real estate developers in 2007, 2008 and 2009. We expect to continue to rely on real estate developers to generate a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Revenues from our services to real estate developers, especially revenues from our consulting services, are typically generated on a project-by-project basis. For some of our consulting projects in relation to land acquisition and property development, we agree to a fixed fee arrangement conditional upon the delivery of a final product, such as closing a land acquisition transaction or providing a market study report. We 33 Table of Contents recognize revenues on this type of consulting projects when we have completed our performance obligations under the service contract, the customer accepts the contract deliverable and the payment terms are no longer contingent. Because such projects may take anywhere from a month to a year to perform, the timing of recognition may cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and even our annual revenues. Furthermore, difficulty in predicting when these projects will begin and how long it will take for us to complete them makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues. Our business is sensitive to the current global economic crisis. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008, and most of the world’s major economies are in or are just emerging from recession. While there has been improvement in some areas, it is still unclear whether the recovery is sustainable. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical tensions, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. Global economic trends have a significant impact on the Chinese economy, and any severe or prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to obtain and maintain accurate, comprehensive and reliable data in our CRIC system, we could experience reduced demand for our services. Our success depends on our clients’ confidence in the accuracy, comprehensiveness and reliability of the data contained in our CRIC system. The task of establishing and maintaining accurate and reliable data is challenging. We rely on third-party data providers for a significant amount of the information in our CRIC system. While we attempt to ensure the accuracy of our data by using multiple sources and performing quality control checks, some of the data provided to us may be inaccurate. If our data, including the data we obtain from third parties, is not current, accurate, comprehensive or reliable, we could experience reduced demand for our services or legal claims by our customers, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, our staff use integrated standard internal processes to update our CRIC system. Any inefficiencies, errors or technical problems with related applications could reduce the quality of our data, which may result in reduced demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues. Technical problems that affect our customers’ ability to access our services, or temporary or permanent outages of our computers, software or telecommunications equipment, could lead to reduced demand for our services, lower revenues and increased costs. A significant portion of our business is conducted over the Internet and through the use of software applications. As a result, our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our software applications, especially our CRIC system software, and the Internet and telecommunications services we use. Problems with our CRIC system, the Internet or the services provided by our telecommunications service providers could result in slower Internet connections for our customers or interruption in our customers’ access to our services. If we experience technical problems in delivering our services, we could suffer from reduced demand for our services, lower revenues and increased costs. In addition, our operations depend on our ability to protect our database, computers and software, telecommunications equipment and facilities against damage from potential dangers such as fire, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses and telecommunications failures. Our computer servers perform automatic data backup on a daily basis. Furthermore, we periodically conduct manual backup of all data onto CDs and store the CDs in a secured off-site location. We also monitor our CRIC system in an effort to detect and prevent unauthorized access and to provide reliable access to our clients. Our main servers are located in the Internet data centers of the local telecommunications carrier in Shanghai. If our main servers go down, our backup servers are designed to be up and running within 30 minutes. Any temporary or permanent loss of one or more of these systems or facilities from an accident, equipment malfunction or other causes could harm our business. If we experience a failure that prevents us 34 Table of Contents from delivering our services to clients, we could experience reduced demand for our services, lower revenues and increased costs. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect from recent and future acquisitions and business partnerships, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business prospects. Strategic acquisitions and business partnerships have been, and may continue to be, an important factor in the growth and success of our business. For example, • in September 2008, we acquired a 60% interest in Wushi Consolidated (Beijing) Advertising Media Co. Ltd., or Wushi Advertising, a provider of real estate advertising design services; • in October 2008, we acquired Guangzhou Integrated Residential Building Industry Facility Co., Ltd., or Guangzhou Integrated, a provider of real estate consulting and training services; • in July 2009, we acquired a 90% interest in Shenzhen Fangyou Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Fangyou Software, a software company specializing in the development of software management systems for real estate agencies and brokers; • in October 2009, we acquired SINA’s 66% equity interest in COHT concurrent with our initial public offering and became the sole shareholder of COHT; • in April 2010, we acquired 55% of the equity interests in Shanghai Dehu PR Consulting Co., Ltd., a public relations consulting company, by subscribing for its increased registered capital; and • we have entered into agreements for acquisition of a 60% interest in Beijing Advertising Age Lotte Co., Ltd. and 100% interest in Shanghai Xinsheng Enterprises Development Consulting Co., Ltd. These and any future acquisitions and business partnerships may expose us to potential risks, including, among other things: • unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, such as hidden liabilities and legal contingencies; • distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations during the acquisition and integration process; • failure to effectively integrate acquired assets and talent into our business and culture; • diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; and • failure to realize the synergies expected from the acquisitions or business partnerships. In addition, we may not be able to identify or secure suitable acquisition and business partnership opportunities or our competitors may capitalize on such opportunities in the future before we do. Moreover, identifying such opportunities could demand substantial management time and resources. Negotiating and financing acquisitions and business partnerships could also involve significant costs and uncertainties. If we fail to continue to successfully source, execute and integrate acquisitions and business partnerships in the future, our overall growth may be impaired, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. For additional risks relating to our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business, see “— Risks Related to Our Online Real Estate Business.” A decrease in demand for advertising services in general, and for our real estate advertising services in particular, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate advertising revenues, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our advertising services is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and the real estate industry. Real estate advertising expenditures typically decrease during periods of economic downturn. 35 Table of Contents Real estate developer advertisers may also reduce their spending on our advertising services for a number of other reasons, including: • a decline in the number of their new development projects or temporary or permanent halts to development projects in the cities in which we operate; • a slowdown in the economy in the cities in which we operate; • a decision to shift advertising budget to other available advertising media by our customers; and • a decrease in advertising spending in general. Failure to enhance our brand recognition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have benefited from the strong brand recognition of E-House in China. We have yet to establish an equally well-recognized brand separate from the E-House brand within the real estate industry in China. We will need to expend significant time, effort and resources to continue to enhance our brand recognition and our own independent identity. Developing our brand is integral to our sales and marketing efforts. If we fail to enhance our brand recognition, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to acquire new clients and thus affect our business and results of operations. In addition, while we have benefited and expect to continue to derive significant benefit from our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business and close affiliation with SINA, given the strength of SINA’s brand in China, it is possible that the SINA brand may hinder our ability to grow the CRIC brand as an independent and successful brand that can thrive alongside and not be over-shadowed by the SINA brand. Furthermore, since we promote the SINA, E-House and CRIC brands together, any negative publicity or damage to the SINA or E-House brand, even if as a result of events unrelated to our business, could adversely impact our CRIC brand. If we fail to enhance our rand recognition and develop a positive public image and reputation, our existing business with our clients could decline and we may fail to develop additional business, which could in turn adversely affect our prospects and results of operations. We may face increased competition and, if we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The real estate information and consulting services sector in China is at an early stage of development and is highly fragmented. As such industry develops, we may face increased competition. Competition in this industry is primarily based on the quality, breadth and depth of the underlying database, client service and support, industry expertise and reputation of the research and consulting professionals, brand recognition and overall client experience. In the real estate information service sector, we compete with both national and local real estate information service providers, including Soufun.com, an Internet real estate portal that primarily targets consumers but also provides real estate market data as part of its service offerings. In the real estate consulting service market, we compete with international real estate consulting companies, such as DTZ, CB Richard Ellis and Jones Lang LaSalle, domestic real estate consulting companies, such as World Union Real Estate Consultancy (China) Ltd., and individual consulting brands. The advertising industry is relatively developed in China. Our real estate advertising business faces intense competition in both advertising design and resale services areas. In the area of advertising design services, we compete with local advertising design firms in places where we have operations. In the area of advertising resale services, we compete with both national and local advertising agencies. Our online real estate business competes mainly with certain vertically-integrated real estate Internet websites, such as soufun.com and real estate channels of Internet portals in China, such as Sohu.com Inc.’s focus.cn. In addition, we also compete with specialized websites focusing on real estate agents, brokers, suppliers and service providers, local real estate websites, traditional advertising media, etc. See also “— Risks Related to Our Online 36 Table of Contents Real Estate Business — If our real estate Internet business fails to compete successfully against its existing or future competitors, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.” Some of our competitors have more financial and other resources than we do. If we fail to compete effectively, our business operations and financial condition will suffer. Substantial defaults by our clients on accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009 were $28.4 million, representing 29.7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Although the service agreements with our developer clients are generally silent in this regard, we typically settle the payments for consulting services with our developer clients after the completion of the consulting projects, which generally last several months. Therefore, our working capital levels are affected by the time lag between the time we provide services, bill our clients and collect the payments owed to us, which is reflected in our accounts receivable and has from time to time resulted in negative operating cash flows. Receivables from the three clients with the largest accounts receivable outstanding as of December 31, 2009, namely Shanghai Jinluodian Development Co., Ltd., Shanghai Xindu Advertising Media Company Limited and Beijing Jia Hua Hengshun Media Advertising Company Limited, accounted for 54.7% of our total accounts receivable as of that date. If these or other clients who owe us significant accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for our services or make payments in a timely manner, our liquidity would be adversely affected and we would have to write off certain accounts receivable or increase provisions made against our accounts receivable, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managerial and other employees, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We place substantial reliance on the real estate industry experience and knowledge of our senior management team as well as their relationships with other real estate industry participants. Mr. Xin Zhou, our co-chairman and chief executive officer, is particularly important to our future success due to his substantial experience and reputation in the real estate industry. Mr. Zuyu Ding, our co-president, has also been instrumental in growing our business due to his substantial experience in the areas of real estate-related research and technology. Mr. Jun Luo, who joined us as co-president after our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business, had been the general manager of SINA’s online real estate business since 2007 and has extensive experience in China’s Internet industry. We do not carry, and do not intend to procure, key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could significantly impair our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for our current senior management could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. If we fail to retain our senior management, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our information and consulting services are supported and enhanced by a team of research staff. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services and our brand as well as reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified employees who have experience in real estate research, information and consulting, and are committed to our service approach. There may be a limited supply of qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. We must hire and train qualified managerial and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our operations in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our managerial and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may deteriorate in one or more of the markets where we operate, which may cause a negative perception of our brand and adversely affect our business. 37 Table of Contents Any failure to protect our brand, trademarks, software copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brand, trademarks, software copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are critical to our success. Although we have applied for trademark registration of “CRIC” and other related trademarks in China, we may not be able to register such trademarks, or register them with the scope we seek. Any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks, software copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. The success of our business depends in large part on the intellectual property involved in our methodologies, databases, services and software. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark and other laws, nondisclosure and non-competition provisions, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. However, current law may not provide adequate protection of our intellectual property, including databases and the actual data. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses. As the right to use Internet domain names is not rigorously regulated in China, other companies have incorporated in their domain names elements similar in writing or pronunciation to our trademarks and domain names. This may result in confusion between those companies and our company and may lead to the dilution of our brand value, which could adversely affect our business. Our business could be significantly harmed if we are not able to protect our proprietary rights in Internet-related business and our other intellectual property. Copyright infringement and other intellectual property claims against us may adversely affect our business and our ability to operate our CRIC system. We have collected and compiled in our CRIC system real estate-related news articles, reports, floor plans, architectural drawings, maps and other documents and information prepared by third parties. Because the content in our database is collected from various sources and distributed to others, we may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, negligence, unfair competition, copyright or trademark infringement, or claims based on other theories. Although we do not use the information we obtain from clients during the course of providing real estate consulting services, the same information derived from other sources may be found in our database. In such cases, we could be subject to breach of confidentiality or similar claims, whether or not having merit, by those clients. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is displayed on our websites or accessible from our websites through links to other websites or information on our websites supplied by third parties. We have in the past been subject to claims by individuals claiming rights in certain of the maps, drawings and documents made available on the CRIC system or otherwise provided to our clients. Any lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which we are involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost us a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating our business. Any judgments against us in such suits, or related settlements, could have a material impact on our ability to operate or market our CRIC system, harm our reputation and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be based upon commercially reasonable terms, or we may be unable to enter into such agreements at all. As a result, the scope of the data we offer to our clients could be reduced, or our methodologies or services could change, which may adversely affect the usefulness of our CRIC system and our ability to attract and retain clients. 38 Table of Contents Failure to obtain or keep requisite licenses and permits for our business operations may subject us to significant financial penalties and other government sanctions. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations and the variety of services we provide, we are subject to numerous national, regional and local laws and regulations specific to the services we perform, including laws and regulations that set forth requirements to hold various licenses and permits. These laws and regulations are subject to interpretation and implementation by local authorities that may vary from place to place and from time to time, and we may be required to obtain licenses and permits we do not currently hold. Currently we provide access to our CRIC database through the Internet. If relevant PRC governmental authorities deem this to be provision of Internet information services under applicable PRC laws and regulations, they may require us to obtain a value-added telecommunications business operating license, or ICP license, to continue to provide access to our CRIC database through the Internet. We believe, based in part on communications with relevant Shanghai governmental authorities, that our current real estate information services business does not require an ICP license because access to the CRIC database is not offered to the general public. However, if relevant PRC governmental authorities require us to obtain an ICP license for this business as currently conducted, Shanghai CRIC Information Technology Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai CRIC”), our main operating subsidiary, could be subject to fines and penalties for operating this business without the proper license. Moreover, because wholly foreign-owned enterprises such as Shanghai CRIC are not permitted to obtain an ICP license, we would need to restructure our operations to carry out our real estate information services business through the same type of contractual arrangements as we operate our advertising services business. Our real estate information services business would then be subject to the risks associated with this contractual arrangement structure described in “— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure.” In addition, relevant PRC authorities may deem certain of Shanghai CRIC’s business activities which involve the collection of data for our CRIC database to be “market survey” activities. In such a case, because wholly foreign-owned enterprises such as Shanghai CRIC are not permitted to engage in “market survey” activities in China, Shanghai CRIC could be subject to fines and penalties and we would be required to restructure our operations to have one of our consolidated affiliated entities holding a business license covering such business scope to undertake these activities. If we fail to properly obtain or maintain the licenses and permits or complete the filing and registrations required to conduct our business, our affected subsidiaries, consolidated affiliated entities and branch offices in China may be warned, fined, have their licenses or permits revoked, or ordered to suspend or cease providing certain services, or subject to other penalties, sanctions and liabilities, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business. Any natural or other disasters, including outbreaks of health epidemics and other extraordinary events could severely disrupt our business operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. On May 12, 2008, a severe earthquake occurred in Sichuan province of China, resulting in significant casualties and property damage and a sharp decline in real estate transactions in the affected areas. On April 14, 2010, another earthquake struck China’s Qinghai Province causing severe damage and casualties in the area. As we do not have operations in Qinghai, the recent earthquake did not have material adverse impact on our company. However, if any other similar disaster or extraordinary events were to occur in the area where we operate in the future, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Our business may also be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of H1N1 influenza, commonly referred to as “swine flu,” avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or any other similar epidemic. In April 2009, an outbreak of swine flu occurred in Mexico and the United States and there have been a number of confirmed cases of swine flu in China. Any future outbreak of swine flu, avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could severely disrupt our staffing and otherwise reduce the activity levels of our work force, thus causing a material and adverse effect on our business operations. 39 Table of Contents We do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance, and any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for fire insurance, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of resources. Risks Related to Our Online Real Estate Business We have limited experience in operating a real estate Internet business as a stand-alone company. We have relied and will continue to rely on our cooperation with SINA to a large extent. If we fail to maintain our relationship with SINA in relation to our real estate Internet operations, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We did not have experience in operating a real estate Internet business as a stand-alone company prior to our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business in October 2009. To a large extent, the operations and revenues of our real estate Internet business relied on our cooperation with SINA. Our real estate Internet operations have generated $13.8 million revenues in the fourth quarter of 2009. The domain names of the major websites of the acquired online real estate business are owned by SINA and licensed to us. In addition, a significant proportion of users of these websites link to them through SINA’s other websites. Pursuant to an advertising agency agreement with SINA, we became the exclusive agent of SINA for selling advertising to the real estate advertisers. Furthermore, COHT and SINA have also entered into an advertising agency agreement, a domain name and content license agreement, a trademark license agreement and a software license and support services agreement. Despite all these arrangements, we may not receive the same level of support from SINA as SINA’s online real estate business did prior to the acquisition. If for any reason SINA terminates the advertising agency agreement or any of the other agreements or otherwise reduces its support for our online real estate operations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Any negative development in SINA’s market position, harm to SINA’s brand or SINA’s operations, or regulatory actions or legal proceedings affecting SINA’s intellectual properties on which our real estate Internet business relies, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations due to our dependence on SINA for our Internet operations. The marketing and promotion of our real estate Internet business benefits significantly from our association with the SINA brand. Any negative development in SINA’s market position or brand recognition may materially and adversely affect our marketing efforts and the popularity of our real estate Internet business. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we generated $5.3 million revenues from selling advertising on SINA’s non-real estate channels, under our advertising agency arrangement with SINA. We expect to derive a significant proportion of the revenues of our real estate Internet business from selling advertising on SINA’s non-real estate channels in the future. Any negative development in SINA’s Internet operations or attractiveness to users or advertisers may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Moreover, as our real estate Internet operations will continue to rely on the domain names, trademarks, contents, software and other intellectual properties licensed to us by SINA, any regulatory actions or legal proceedings against SINA related to such domain names, contents and other intellectual properties could have a significant negative impact on our ability to operate our real estate Internet business. If the online advertising market fails to grow as quickly as expected, or if we fail to implement our growth strategies for our real estate Internet operations, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our real estate Internet operations rely on online advertising as its main source of revenue. However, online advertising in China is still a relatively new business and many of our potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes. In particular, advertisers in the real estate sector in China 40 Table of Contents have traditionally relied more heavily on other advertising media, such as newsprint, magazines and outdoor advertising. If the Internet does not continue to develop as a viable marketplace for real estate and home-related contents and information, our online advertising business may be negatively affected. Even if the online advertising market in China does continue to grow, if we fail to implement our growth strategies for our real estate Internet operations, our business may not grow as quickly as we expect. Our future growth depends on our ability to attract and retain employees who understand both the real estate industry and the online advertising industry, to increase the user traffic of our websites, to develop new advertising offerings and increase marketing effectiveness, to increase fees we can charge for online advertising, and to maintain and enhance relationships with our advertising clients. The current and potential clients of our real estate Internet business may choose not to advertise on our websites if they do not perceive our online advertising services to be effective or our user demographics to be desirable. Failure to maintain or expand the number and quality of property listings on our real estate Internet websites could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We believe having a large number of high-quality property listings attracts users to our real estate Internet websites, thereby enhancing its attractiveness to advertisers and other real estate market participants. Since our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business, in addition to our own on-the-ground capabilities, we have been relying on local business partners to develop primary property listings. We have also engaged third parties to provide secondary and rental property listing data, and use the database in our CRIC system for the property listings. We expect that our real estate Internet operations will continue to rely on local business partners or other third parties to source property listings. However, these business partners or third party information providers may for certain reasons terminate their agreements with us or otherwise cease providing property listings to us. Moreover, we have limited control over these business partners, and actions by them could harm our business reputation or otherwise negatively affect our business. If our real estate Internet business experiences reduced listings or if our websites are perceived to be less attractive or popular among real estate market participants, the competitive position of our real estate Internet business could be significantly weakened and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. SINA’s online real estate business had relied on a limited number of advertising agencies, which may materially and adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of our real estate Internet business. Historically SINA’s online real estate business relied on a limited number of advertising agencies for a significant majority of its revenues. For the nine months ended on December 31, 2008 and nine months ended September 30, 2009, the three largest advertising agencies of SINA’s online real estate business accounted for approximately 70% of its advertising revenues in both years. From the date when we acquired SINA’s online real estate business through the end of 2009, our online real estate business continued to rely on these three advertising agents, which accounted for approximately 70% of the advertising revenues of our online real estate business for such period. In the future, these advertising agencies may not continue to engage our services at the same level, or at all. Should these advertising agencies terminate or substantially reduce their business with our real estate Internet operations and we fail to find new clients or they are unable to timely pay on our receivables outstanding, the results of operations and financial condition of our real estate Internet business may be materially and adversely affected. If our real estate Internet business fails to compete successfully against its existing or future competitors, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our real estate Internet business will face significant competition from other companies in each of its primary business activities. In particular, the online real estate services markets in China may become increasingly competitive. The barriers to entry for establishing Internet-based businesses are low, making it possible for new competitors to proliferate rapidly. We expect more companies to enter the online real estate services industry in China and a wider range of online real estate services to be introduced. As the online real estate services industry in China is relatively new and constantly evolving, existing or future competitors of our real estate Internet business may be able to better position themselves to compete as the industry matures. In particular, any of these competitors 41 Table of Contents may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, scope, creativity or other advantages over those offered by our real estate Internet business. These products and services may weaken the market strength of our brand name and achieve greater market acceptance than those of our real estate Internet operations. Increased competition in the online real estate services industry in China could make it difficult for our real estate Internet business to retain existing clients and attract new clients, and could force us to reduce our fee rates. The current competitors of our online real estate business include certain vertically-integrated real estate Internet websites, such as Soufun.com, and real estate channels of Internet portals in China, such as Sohu.com Inc.’s focus.cn, which provide, among other things, competing real estate-related content and advertising services. These websites may have a larger user base, better brand recognition or stronger market influence. It is also possible that websites with large traffic may decide to provide real estate-related listing and other advertising services. In addition, regionally and locally focused websites providing regional real estate listings together with localized services have offered and may continue to offer strong competition in the regions that we operate. Moreover, any of the existing or future competitors of our real estate Internet business may receive investments from or enter into other commercial or strategic relationships with larger and well-established companies and therefore obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and content licensing and development resources than our real estate Internet business. Our real estate Internet business may not be able to charge higher fees for online advertising due to existing and potential competition. If our real estate Internet business is unable to compete effectively in the online real estate services markets in China, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business may not yield the benefits we anticipate, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business in October 2009, we have started to realize the expected synergies between our operations and the online real estate business acquired from SINA. We are in the process of fully integrating acquired operations, services, corporate culture and personnel into our real estate information, consulting and advertising business and operations. These activities have required, and will continue to require, significant management attention from our real estate information, consulting and advertising business operations, which diversion may harm the effective management of our business. Failure to generate the synergies we anticipate from the combination of our pre-existing operations and SINA’s online real estate business could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. There may be risks inherent in our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business. Although we have been COHT’s shareholder since its establishment and have conducted due diligence with respect to our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business, there may still be unidentified issues and hidden liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While SINA has made extensive representations and warranties to us regarding the business we have acquired, and we are entitled to seek indemnification from SINA for any breach of those representations and warranties, actions to seek indemnification or enforce indemnification could be costly and time-consuming and may not be successful. Moreover, our ongoing business partnership with SINA may discourage us from seeking such indemnification. If we fail to further expand the online advertising operation of our real estate Internet business outside of Beijing, our growth of revenues, results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. SINA’s online real estate business had historically relied on the Beijing area for a substantial portion of its revenues. More recently, its revenue growth has been increasingly driven by the expansion of its advertising business outside of Beijing. Since our acquisition of its online real estate business, we have continued to expand into geographical areas outside Beijing and changed our business model from hosting arrangements to operating websites directly in several cities in order to increase the revenues of our real estate Internet business. However, consumer trends and demands may vary significantly by region and our experience in the Beijing market may not be applicable in other localities outside Beijing. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience in Beijing to expand into other areas outside Beijing. When we enter new markets, we may face low levels of acceptance for 42 Table of Contents online advertising, or intense competition from companies with greater experience or an established presence or from other companies with similar expansion targets. As part of our expansion strategy, we outsource the operation of certain regional websites to local business partners. Actions by these business partners, or a failure by them to comply with relevant laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect our ability to expand our business or the popularity and reputation of our real estate Internet operations. We may be unable to provide sufficient local content or maintain a sufficient number of local business hosting partners. Therefore, we may not be able to grow our revenues in new cities which we enter into while incurring substantial costs, and our revenue growth, results of operations and online real estate advertising business could be materially and adversely affected. The operations of our real estate Internet business could be disrupted by unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters or unauthorized tampering with the systems. The continual accessibility of websites and the performance and reliability of the network infrastructure for our real estate Internet business are critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain users and advertisers. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of services or increases in the response time of services could reduce the appeal of our real estate Internet business to advertisers and consumers. Factors that could significantly disrupt the operations of our real estate Internet business include: inadequate bandwidth, system failures and outages caused by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events; software errors; computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with the computer systems; and security breaches related to the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers or other personal information. Our real estate Internet operations have limited backup systems and redundancy. Repeated disruptions or any of the foregoing factors could damage our real estate Internet business’s reputation, require us to expend significant capital and other resources and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if any of the above disruptions should occur. If any of our subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities operating our real estate Internet business fails to obtain or maintain the applicable licenses and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for Internet-based businesses and advertising businesses in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Internet and advertising industries in China are highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central government, such as the State Council, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the State Press and Publication Administration, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and advertising industries. For example, Beijing Yisheng Leju Informations Services Co., Ltd., or Beijing Leju, COHT’s consolidated affiliated entity operating our online real estate business, is required to obtain and maintain applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide its current services, including an ICP license. These licenses are essential to the operation of our online real estate business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Advertising is included in the business scope indicated in the business license of Beijing Leju, which allows it to provide advertising services. This type of business scope is also essential to the operations of our online real estate business. In addition, Beijing Leju may be required to obtain additional licenses, such as an Internet publication license, an Internet news information services license and an Internet and network transmission video and audio program license, if it is deemed by the government authorities to conduct the relevant businesses. If Beijing Leju fails to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses or approvals, its continued business in the Internet and advertising industries may subject it to various penalties, including, but not limited to, confiscation of illegal revenues, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of its operations. Any such disruption in the operations of our real estate Internet business could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents We could face liability for information on our websites and for products and services sold over our real estate Internet websites. Our real estate Internet websites provide third-party content such as real estate listings, links to third-party websites, online advertisements or content provided by users of community-oriented services. China has enacted laws and regulations governing the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. If any Internet content we provide or will provide on our websites were deemed by the PRC government to violate any such laws or regulations, we would not be able to continue providing such content and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses. We could be held liable for defamation, negligence or other wrongful actions brought by third parties providing such content or operating websites linked to our websites. We may also face assertions that content on our websites or information contained in websites linked to our websites contains errors or omissions, and consumers may seek damages for losses incurred if they rely upon such information. We have taken certain precautionary measures in this regard. However, such measures may not be adequate to exonerate us from relevant civil, administrative or criminal liabilities. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend and result in significant diversion of management’s attention and resources. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. Risks Related to Our Carve-out from E-House and Our Relationships with E-House We have limited experience operating as a stand-alone public company. We were incorporated on August 21, 2008 in the Cayman Islands as a wholly-owned subsidiary of E-House. We have very limited experience conducting our operations as a stand-alone public company. Prior to our listing on NASDAQ Global Select Market in October 2009, E-House had provided us with tax, accounting, treasury, legal and human resources services, as well as the services of a number of its executives and employees. After we became a stand-alone public company, E-House has continued to provide us with certain support services such as tax, accounting, treasury and legal services, but to the extent E-House does not continue to provide us with such support, we need to create our own financial, administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace E-House’s systems. In addition, as we have become a public company, our management team has been required to develop the expertise necessary to comply with numerous regulatory and other requirements applicable to stand-alone public companies, including requirements relating to corporate governance, listing standards and securities and investor relations issues. Prior to our initial public offering, we, as a subsidiary of E-House, were indirectly subject to requirements to maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, as a stand-alone public company, our management has to evaluate our internal control system independently with new thresholds of materiality, and to implement necessary changes to our internal control system. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in a timely and effective manner. Our financial information included in this annual report may not be representative of our financial condition and results of operations if we had been operating as a stand-alone public company for all periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements for periods prior to our initial public offering in October 2009 have been prepared on a carve-out basis and represent the assets and liabilities, related results of our operations and cash flows, that represent two operating segments of E-House. The financial data of previously separate entities have been combined, to the extent included in the two operating segments of E-House, for all periods presented up to the date of the initial public offering as all such entities were under common control. The consolidated financial statements for periods prior to our initial public offering include our direct expenses as well as allocations for various selling, general and administrative expenses of E-House that are not directly related to real estate information and consulting services or real estate advertising services. These expenses consist primarily of share-based compensation expenses of senior management and shared marketing and management expenses including marketing, finance, legal, technology, human resources, administration and internal audit. These allocations were made using a 44 Table of Contents proportional cost allocation method and were based on revenues, expenses and headcount as well as estimates of actual time spent on the provision of services attributable to us. Income tax liability is calculated based on a separate return basis as if we had filed a separate tax return. Subsequent to our initial public offering, there have not been any selling, general and administrative expenses allocation, as E-House, pursuant to the offshore and onshore transitional services agreements entered into on July 29, 2009 in connection with our initial public offering, charged us service fees for providing various corporate support services to us, including supports in general finance and accounting, human resources management, administrative, internal control and internal audit, operational management, legal and information technology. As a result of the above, our financial information included in this annual report may not necessarily reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows if we had actually existed on a standalone basis during the periods presented. Therefore, you should not view our historical results as indicators of our future performance. We may not be able to continue to receive the same level of support from E-House. E-House is a leading real estate services company in China, and our real estate information and consulting services business has benefited significantly from E-House’s strong real estate market position in China and its expertise in real estate agency and research. For example, we have benefited from marketing our CRIC system and consulting services to E-House’s developer clients. In addition, E-House’s experienced real estate research team has contributed reports and data to our CRIC system, which improved the depth and breadth of the information we provide to our clients. Although we have entered into a series of agreements with E-House relating to our ongoing business partnership and service arrangements, we cannot assure you that we will continue to receive the same level of support from E-House as now we operate as a stand-alone public company. Our agreements with E-House may be less favorable to us than similar agreements negotiated between unaffiliated third parties. In particular, our non-competition agreement with E-House limits the scope of business that we are allowed to conduct. We have entered into a series of agreements with E-House and the terms of such agreements may be less favorable to us than would be the case if they were negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. In particular, under the non-competition agreement we have entered into with E-House, we have agreed during the non-competition period (which will end on the later of the three years after E-House no longer owns in aggregate at least 20% of the voting power of our then outstanding voting securities and five years after September 29, 2009, the date on which our registration statement on Form F-1 was first publicly filed with the SEC) not to compete with E-House in the business of primary real estate agency services, secondary real estate brokerage services and any other businesses conducted by E-House, as described in its periodic filings with the SEC. Such contractual limitations significantly affect our ability to diversify our revenue sources and may materially and adversely impact our business and prospects should the growth of real estate information and consulting services in China slow down. In addition, pursuant to our master transaction agreement with E-House, we have agreed to indemnify E-House for, among other things, liabilities arising from litigation and other contingencies related to our business and assumed these liabilities as part of our carve-out from E-House. The allocation of assets and liabilities between E-House and our company may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached by two unaffiliated parties. Moreover, so long as E-House continues to control us, we may not be able to bring a legal claim against E-House in the event of contractual breach, notwithstanding our contractual rights under the agreements described above and other inter-company agreements entered into from time to time. Our marketing and promotion have benefited significantly from our association with E-House. Any negative development in E-House’s market position or brand recognition may materially and adversely affect our marketing efforts and the popularity of our brand. As a majority-owned subsidiary of E-House, we have benefited significantly from E-House in marketing our services. For example, we have benefited from E-House by providing services to E-House’s clients. We also benefit from E-House’s strong brand recognition in China, which has provided us credibility and a broad marketing reach. If E-House loses its market position, the effectiveness of our marketing efforts through our association with 45 Table of Contents E-House may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any negative publicity associated with E-House will likely to have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our marketing as well as our reputation and our brand. E-House will control the outcome of shareholder actions in our company. E-House currently holds 52.17% of our ordinary shares and voting power. E-House has advised us that it does not anticipate disposing of its voting control in us in the near future. E-House’s voting power gives it the power to control actions that require shareholder approval under Cayman Islands law, our memorandum and articles of association and NASDAQ requirements, including the election and removal of a majority of our board of directors, significant mergers and acquisitions and other business combinations, changes to our memorandum and articles of association, the number of shares available for issuance under share incentive plans, and the issuance of significant amounts of our ordinary shares in private placements. E-House’s voting control may cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of ADSs, and may prevent transactions that would be beneficial to you. For example, E-House’s voting control may prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of our ADSs might otherwise receive a premium for your securities over the then-current market price. In addition, E-House is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without your approval and without providing for a purchase of your ADSs. If E-House is acquired or otherwise undergoes a change of control, any acquirer or successor will be entitled to exercise the voting control and contractual rights of E-House, and may do so in a manner that could vary significantly from that of E-House. We may have conflicts of interest with E-House and, because of E-House’s controlling ownership interest in our company, may not be able to resolve such conflicts on favorable terms for us. Conflicts of interest may arise between E-House and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Potential conflicts of interest that we have identified include the following: • Indemnification arrangements with E-House. We have agreed to indemnify E-House with respect to lawsuits and other matters relating to our real estate information and consulting services business, including operations of that business when it was a business unit of E-House. These indemnification arrangements could result in our having interests that are adverse to those of E-House including, for example, different interests with respect to settlement arrangements in a litigation matter. In addition, under these arrangements, we have agreed to reimburse E-House for liabilities incurred (including legal defense costs) in connection with any litigation, while E-House will be the party prosecuting or defending the litigation. • Non-competition arrangements with E-House. We and E-House have each agreed not to compete with the core business of each other. E-House has agreed not to compete with us in the business of providing real estate information and consulting services, real estate advertising services, and operating business to business and business to consumer Internet websites targeting participants in the real estate industry anywhere in the world. We have agreed not to compete with E-House in primary real estate agency services, secondary real estate brokerage services and any other businesses conducted by E-House, except real estate information and consulting services and related support services. • Employee recruiting and retention. Because both E-House and we are based in Shanghai, and engage in real estate services in China, we may compete with E-house in the hiring of new employees, in particular with respect to real estate information and research. We have a non-solicitation arrangement with E-House that would restrict either E-House or us from hiring any of the other’s employees. • Our board members or executive officers may have conflicts of interest. Mr. Xin Zhou, our co-chairman and chief executive officer, is currently also serving as E-House’s executive chairman. Some of our board members and executive officers also own shares or options in E-House. E-House may continue to grant incentive share compensation to our board members and executive officers from time to time. These relationships could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these persons are faced with decisions with potentially different implications for E-House and us. 46 Table of Contents • Sale of shares in our company. E-House may decide to sell all or a portion of our shares that it holds to a third party, including to one of our competitors, thereby giving that third party substantial influence over our business and our affairs. Such a sale could be contrary to the interests of certain of our shareholders, including our employees or our public shareholders. • Allocation of business opportunities. Business opportunities may arise that both we and E-House find attractive, and which would complement our respective businesses. E-House may decide to take the opportunities itself, which would prevent us from taking advantage of the opportunity ourselves. • Developing business relationships with E-House’s competitors. So long as E-House remains as our controlling shareholder, we may be limited in our ability to do business with its competitors, such as other real estate services companies in China. This may limit our ability to market our services for the best interest of our company and our other shareholders. Although our company has become a stand-alone public company, we expect to operate, for as long as E-House remains our controlling shareholder, as an affiliate of E-House. E-House may from time to time make strategic decisions that it believes are in the best interests of its business as a whole, including our company. These decisions may be different from the decisions that we would have made on our own. E-House’s decisions with respect to us or our business may be resolved in ways that favor E-House and its own shareholders, which may not coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated shareholder. Even if both parties seek to transact business on terms intended to approximate those that could have been achieved among unaffiliated parties, this may not succeed in practice. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements with our consolidated affiliated entities that establish the structure for operating our advertising services business and real estate Internet business in China do not comply with applicable PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations currently do not allow foreign entities with less than at least two years of direct experience operating an advertising business outside of China to invest in an advertising business in China. Because we have no direct experience operating an advertising business outside of China, we may not invest directly in a PRC entity that provides advertising services in China, and our PRC foreign-invested subsidiaries may not provide advertising services in China. As such, our real estate advertising business is primarily provided through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity in China, Tian Zhuo, and its subsidiaries. Tian Zhuo is 90% owned by Mr. Xin Zhou, our co-chairman and chief executive officer and the executive chairman of E-House, and 10% owned by Mr. Xudong Zhu, our director. Tian Zhuo and its subsidiaries provide real estate advertising design services for real estate development projects and may enter into other services related to real estate advertising. We have depended and expect to continue to depend on Tian Zhuo and its subsidiaries to operate our real estate advertising business. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, pursuant to which we, through our subsidiary Shanghai CRIC, provide technical support and consulting services to Tian Zhuo. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Tian Zhuo and its shareholders, which provide us with the substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo and make us a primary beneficiary of Tian Zhuo. Moreover, PRC laws and regulations currently prohibit foreign investors from holding more than 50% of a foreign-invested telecommunications enterprise that provides Internet information services, which are one type of value-added telecommunications services. Because of such restriction and the above-mentioned restrictions on foreign investment in advertising businesses, COHT is operating www.leju.com and our online real estate business through Beijing Leju, a consolidated affiliated entity in China. Beijing Leju was owned by two PRC citizens affiliated with SINA prior to our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business. COHT’s wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, Shanghai SINA Leju Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai SINA Leju, has entered into contractual arrangements with Beijing Leju, pursuant to which, Shanghai SINA Leju provides technical support to Beijing Leju. In addition, Shanghai SINA Leju has entered into agreements with Beijing Leju and its existing shareholders, which provide Shanghai SINA Leju with the substantial ability to control Beijing Leju and make it a 47 Table of Contents primary beneficiary of Beijing Leju. Upon completion of our acquisition of SINA’s online real estate business, Beijing Leju became 80% owned by Mr. Xudong Zhu, our director, and 20% owned by Mr. Jun Luo, our co-president. Shanghai SINA Leju, Beijing Leju, Mr. Xudong Zhu and Mr. Jun Luo have entered into contractual arrangements which continue to provide Shanghai SINA Leju with the ability to control Beijing Leju and make it a primary beneficiary of Beijing Leju. We operate our real estate Internet business through our contractual arrangements with Beijing Leju and its shareholders. In the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, • The ownership structures of Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; • The contractual arrangements governed by PRC law between Shanghai CRIC and Tian Zhuo and its shareholders establishing the corporate structure for operating our PRC advertising services business are valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their terms based on the currently effective PRC laws and regulations, and will not result in any violation of current PRC laws or regulations; and • The contractual arrangements governed by PRC law among Shanghai SINA Leju, Beijing Leju, Mr. Xudong Zhu and Mr. Jun Luo establishing the corporate structure for operating our real estate Internet business are valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their terms based on the currently effective PRC laws and regulations, and will not result in any violation of current PRC laws or regulations. Our PRC legal counsel has also advised us, however, that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that the relevant PRC regulatory authorities will not in the future take a view that is contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. As part of the contractual arrangements described above, we entered into an equity pledge agreement pursuant to which the two shareholders of Tian Zhuo pledged their respective equity interests in Tian Zhuo to Shanghai CRIC. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, effective as of October 1, 2007, such pledge will only be effective upon registration with the relevant local office for the administration for industry and commerce. Shanghai CRIC is in the process of registering the equity interest pledge with the local office for the administration for industry and commerce. Before a successful registration of the equity pledge, we cannot assure you that the effectiveness of such pledge can be recognized in PRC courts if disputes arise regarding the pledged equity interest or that Shanghai CRIC’s interests as pledgee will prevail over those of third parties. If we, Shanghai CRIC, Tian Zhuo, Shanghai SINA Leju or Beijing Leju is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, which regulates advertising companies, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, which regulates Internet information services companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; • imposing fines or confiscating the income of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 48 Table of Contents We rely on contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju and their respective shareholders for a portion of our operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo and its shareholders to operate our real estate advertising business, and rely on those with Beijing Leju and its shareholders to operate our real estate Internet business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju. Under these contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if any consolidated affiliated entity in PRC or its shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. The shareholders of Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Tian Zhuo is jointly owned by Mr. Xin Zhou, our co-chairman and chief executive officer, and the founder and executive chairman of E-House, and Mr. Xudong Zhu, our director. Conflicts of interests between Mr. Zhou’s role as a shareholder of Tian Zhuo and his duties to our company as management may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, such individual will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Zhou may breach or cause Tian Zhuo and its subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control Tian Zhuo and its subsidiaries as well as receive economic benefits from them. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between Mr. Zhou and our company. In addition, the laws of the Cayman Islands and China both provide that a director or member of management owes a fiduciary duty to the company he directs or manages. Mr. Zhou is the executive chairman of our parent company, E-House. Mr. Zhou must therefore act in good faith and in the best interests of E-House and must not use his position for personal gain. Conflicts of interest may arise between his role as a director of E-House and his duties to our company as a director and chief executive officer. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest described above, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Beijing Leju is 80% owned by Mr. Xudong Zhu, our director, and 20% owned by Mr. Jun Luo, our co-president. Similar conflicts of interests between their role as the shareholders of Beijing Leju and their duties to our company as a director or a member of management may arise. Contractual arrangements we have entered into or may enter into with Tian Zhuo and Beijing Leju may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we, Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements we have entered into with Tian Zhuo or Beijing Leju do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust the taxable income of Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju or their subsidiaries in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expenses deductions recorded by Tian Zhuo, Beijing Leju or their subsidiaries, which could in turn increase their PRC tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our consolidated affiliated entities for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially 49 Table of Contents and adversely affected if our consolidated affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the real estate industry is highly sensitive to business spending, credit conditions and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government may implement measures that are intended to benefit the overall economy even if they would be expected to have a negative effect on the real estate industry. For example, on January 3, 2008, the State Council issued a Notice on Promoting Economization of Land Use, which urges the full and effective use of existing construction land and the preservation of farming land. The real estate industry is particularly sensitive to credit policies. From late 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, that had the effect of slowing the growth of credit, which in turn may have slowed the growth of the Chinese economy. In response to the global and Chinese economic downturn in 2008, the PRC government promulgated several measures aimed at stimulating economic growth. The People’s Bank of China has decreased the statutory deposit reserve ratio and lowered benchmark interest rates several times in late 2008 and kept them unchanged in 2009. In 2009, total new lending reached RMB9.59 trillion (approximately $1.4 trillion), representing an increase of RMB4.69 trillion (approximately $0.7 trillion) from the previous year. As of the end of 2009, the outstanding balances of RMB loans extended by financial institutions totaled RMB39.97 trillion (approximately $5.9 trillion), representing an increase of 31.74% from the end of 2008. Beginning in January 2010, the People’s Bank of China has twice raised the statutory deposit reserve ratio by 0.5% in order to curb credit expansion. We cannot assure you that China will always have stable economic growth in the future or that changes in credit policies that are intended to create stable economic growth will not adversely impact the real estate industry. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 50 Table of Contents PRC governmental restrictions on currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues and funds effectively and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities to obtain financing. Restrictions on currency exchanges between RMB and other currencies may limit our ability to utilize our revenues and funds, in particular in relation to capital account transactions such as investments and loans. Under current PRC regulations, RMB is convertible for “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements. Although the RMB has been fully convertible for current account transactions since 1996, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and of foreign currencies into RMB, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally include investments and loans, generally requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC operating companies to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the RMB to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since July 2008, however, the RMB has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high. As a consequence, the RMB has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. As our costs and expenses are mostly denominated in RMB, a resumption of the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as our operating subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China receive substantially all of their revenues in RMB, any significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues in U.S. dollar terms and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, because the RMB is the functional currency of our PRC operating subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, fluctuations in the RMB-U.S. dollar exchange rate could cause us to incur foreign exchange losses to the extent these operating subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities hold U.S. dollar cash balances. The foreign exchange losses of $0.5 million and $1.3 million we incurred in 2007 and 2008, respectively, and the foreign exchange gain of $0.2 million in 2009 was primarily due to this reason. These and other effects on our financial data resulting from fluctuations in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and your investment. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose company.” PRC residents who 51 Table of Contents are beneficial owners of special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident beneficial owners of special purpose companies are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in certain circumstances. We have requested our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required by the SAFE, but we cannot provide any assurances that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with SAFE rules and the registration procedures set forth therein may subject these beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions; restrict our cross-border cash flows; limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends, repay foreign loans or make other outbound payments; limit our ability to make capital contributions, or foreign exchange-denominated loans to our PRC subsidiaries or other inbound payments; or otherwise adversely affect our business. Moreover, failure to comply with SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Under the applicable regulations and SAFE rules, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. For participants of an employee stock ownership plan, an overseas custodian bank should be retained by the PRC agent, which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to hold on trusteeship all overseas assets held by such participants under the employee share ownership plan. In the case of a stock option plan, a financial institution with stock brokerage qualification at the place where the overseas publicly-listed company is listed or a qualified institution designated by the overseas publicly-listed company is required to be retained by the PRC agent to handle matters in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options for the stock option plan participants. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to this rule. We cannot assure you that we and our PRC optionees will complete such registration procedures in a timely manner, or at all. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. PRC regulations relating to foreign acquisitions may subject us to requisite approval by the Ministry of Commerce, and the failure to obtain such approval could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. The M&A Regulation promulgated by six PRC regulatory agencies on August 8, 2006 and amended on June 22, 2009 includes provisions that purport to require approval of the Ministry of Commerce for acquisitions by offshore entities established or controlled by domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons of onshore entities that are related to such domestic companies, enterprises or natural persons. In December 2008, the Ministry of Commerce circulated an updated handbook on its guidance on the administration of foreign investment access. This handbook includes provisions that tentatively limit the acceptance by the Ministry of Commerce of applications for the approval of such foreign acquisitions among related parties under the M&A Regulation to those in which the offshore company is either a listed company or a company duly established overseas that conducts the acquisition with the profit generated from its own operation. However, the interpretation and implementation of the M&A 52 Table of Contents Regulation remain unclear with no consensus currently existing regarding the scope and applicability of the Ministry of Commerce approval requirement on such foreign acquisitions among related parties. In 2008, for the purpose of a series of our acquisitions of advertising services and future businesses that may otherwise be restricted for foreign investments, we, through Shanghai CRIC, entered into contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo, our consolidated affiliated entity, and its shareholder, which provide us with substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo. After the transfer of 10% equity interests in Tian Zhuo from Mr. Xin Zhou to Mr. Xudong Zhu in July 2009, we entered into a series of new or amended contractual arrangements with Tian Zhuo and its shareholders which continue to provide us with substantial ability to control Tian Zhuo. Our PRC legal counsel has advised us, based on their understanding of the current PRC laws, rules, regulations and administrative practices under the M&A Regulation up to the date of this annual report, that neither the M&A Regulation itself nor the PRC laws, rules, regulations and administrative practices under the M&A Regulation made public as of the date of this annual report have clearly indicated the application of the M&A Regulation in connection with the contractual arrangements between Shanghai CRIC and Tian Zhuo and its shareholders, and it is not necessary for us to submit an application to the Ministry of Commerce for its approval in connection with such contractual arrangements. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, however, that there are still uncertainties as to how the M&A Regulation will be interpreted or implemented. If the Ministry of Commerce subsequently determines that Ministry of Commerce approval was required for such contractual arrangements, we may need to apply for a remedial approval from the Ministry of Commerce. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval or waiver of such approval from the Ministry of Commerce. Our inability to obtain such approval or waiver from the Ministry of Commerce may have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Further, we may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Commerce or other regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Failure to comply with PRC laws and regulations relating to the advertising industry may subject us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions, government actions and civil claims, or otherwise adversely affect our operation. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising agencies and advertising distributors to ensure that the contents of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable laws. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertisement fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an announcement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations and the violator may even be subject to criminal prosecutions. We are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the content of advertisements that we serve onto print media, websites or other media for compliance with applicable laws. In addition, where special government review or government approval is required for specific product advertisements, we are separately obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. We have taken measures to comply with such requirements, including requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. Our reputation will be damaged and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if advertisements served by us are in violation of relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or have not received required approval from the relevant government authorities or are not compliant in contents. If we are found to be liable in any government proceedings or civil actions against us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 53 Table of Contents Our holding company relies principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements it may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make payments to our holding company could have a material adverse effect on its ability to fund our operations, make investments or acquisitions, or pay dividends. China Real Estate Information Corporation is a holding company, and it relies principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China to fund any cash and financing requirements it may have, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to the shareholders and service any debt it may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to our holding company. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to our holding company. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to our holding company could materially and adversely limit its ability to fund our business operations, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses or pay dividends. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to approval by relevant governmental authorities in China and other requirements under relevant PRC regulations. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment and the type of business in which a foreign-invested enterprise is engaged, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises in China are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. China passed a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under its predecessor. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies established before March 16, 2007 to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high-technology enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate subject to certain new qualification criteria. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Shanghai CRIC was recognized by the local provincial level Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau, and State and Local Tax Bureaus as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the Administrative Rules for the Certification of High and New Technology Enterprises jointly issued by the State Administration of Taxation, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Finance on April 18, 2008, and was further approved by the local tax authorities on April 13, 2009 to be eligible to the reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate for the term commencing on January 1, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2010, as long as it maintains its qualification as a “high and new technology enterprise.” The continued qualification of a “high and 54 Table of Contents new technology enterprise” will be subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review by the relevant government authority in China. If Shanghai CRIC fails to maintain the “high and new technology enterprise” qualification or renew such qualification when the valid term expires, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to a Circular on Enterprise Income Tax Preferential Treatments issued by the State Administration of Taxation, a qualified software enterprise is eligible to be exempted from income tax for its first two profitable years, followed by a 50% reduction of income tax for the subsequent three years. Shanghai SINA Leju was recognized as a qualified software enterprise in February 2009 and thus became eligible to be exempted from income tax for 2009, followed by a 50% reduction in income tax from 2010 through 2012. However, the qualified software enterprise status is subject to annual review. If Shanghai SINA Leju fails to maintain the software enterprise status in any annual review, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Preferential tax treatment granted to our subsidiaries by the local governmental authorities is subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us and our wholly-owned subsidiaries will cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. Our business benefits from tax-related government incentives and discretionary policies. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives or policies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Since 2009, Shanghai CRIC has been granted certain governmental financial subsidies by the Zhabei District government in Shanghai. Local governments may decide to reduce or eliminate subsidies at any time. In addition, we cannot assure you of the continued availability of the government incentives and subsidies currently enjoyed by some of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities. Furthermore, local implementations of tax laws may be found in violation of national laws or regulations, and as a consequence, we may be subject to retroactive imposition of higher taxes. Starting from year 2007, we are required under U.S. GAAP to accrue taxes for these contingencies. The change in accounting requirement for reporting tax contingencies, any reduction or elimination of subsidies and any retroactive imposition of higher taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income, and dividends distributed to our non-PRC investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, were exempted from PRC withholding tax. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules effective on January 1, 2008, all domestic and foreign-invested companies in China are subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from a PRC subsidiary to its foreign parent company are subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10%, unless such foreign parent company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax, or the tax is otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to the PRC tax laws. Under the Administrative Measures for Non-Residents Enjoying Tax Treaty Benefits (Trial Implementation), effective on October 1, 2009, our Hong Kong subsidiaries need to obtain approval from the competent local branch of the State Administration of Taxation in order to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% in accordance with the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income. To date, the State Administration of Taxation has not published more detailed implementing regulations for these measures. The State Administration Taxation further promulgated a circular on October 27, 2009, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and that a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-the-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant the tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this stage whether this circular applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. However, it is possible that our Hong Kong subsidiaries might not be considered as the “beneficial 55 Table of Contents owner” of any dividends from their PRC subsidiaries and as a result would be subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10%. As a result, there is no assurance that our Hong Kong subsidiaries will be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China are considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, a circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the enterprise’s directors or senior management with voting rights reside in the PRC. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to resident enterprise issues. Although our offshore holding companies are not controlled by any PRC company or company group, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules. If we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income. In that case, however, dividend income we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempted from PRC enterprise income tax because the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules generally provide that dividends received by a PRC resident enterprise from its directly invested entity that is also a PRC resident enterprise is exempted from enterprise income tax. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC enterprise income tax exemptions or reductions. In addition, ambiguities also exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-sourced income. If we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise, dividends distributed to our non-PRC entity investors by us, or the gain our non-PRC entity investors may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. If we became a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and received income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flows would be adversely affected due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. Additionally, we would incur an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax cost if we distributed our profits to our ultimate shareholders. There is, however, not necessarily an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax on the piece of the profits distributed from our PRC subsidiaries, since they would have been subject to PRC dividend withholding tax even if we were not a PRC tax resident. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the real estate and/or advertising industries in China; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other real estate services companies; 56 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • sales or repurchases of our ADSs or ordinary shares; and • general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2010, we have 142,984,722 ordinary shares outstanding, more than 85% of which will be available for sale upon the expiration of the applicable lock-up period, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The lock-up period in relation to the initial public offering on October 16, 2009 has expired. In addition, we, E-House and SINA have entered into an agreement which provides E-House and SINA certain rights to cause us to register the sale of shares held by E-House and SINA. Registration of the sale of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the sale of such shares pursuant to the effective registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules and, as a result, we are exempted from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. Currently, E-House owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our company and thus making our company a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. As a controlled company, we are exempted from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors. We are not required to and will not voluntarily meet these requirements. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, you will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements. 