Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking Statements The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we may from time to time make, including forward-looking statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K and in Teledyne’s 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is not possible for management to predict all such factors, and new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess 18 Table of Contents the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. While Teledyne has classified its general aviation piston engines businesses as “discontinued operations”, until such divestiture is completed, for the purposes of this section, Teledyne continues to identify the risk factors associated with such discontinued operations. As the divestiture is subject to closing conditions, there remains a risk that such disposition will not occur or will not occur on the terms previously agreed. With the recently completed acquisition of DALSA Corporation and upon completion of the pending divestiture of Teledyne’s piston engines businesses, the risk profile of Teledyne will differ, and may differ materially from prior years, which could materially change Teledyne’s results of operations. On February 12, 2011, Teledyne completed its largest acquisition to date when it acquired DALSA Corporation for approximately CAD $337 million, taking into account DALSA’s stock options and net cash as of December 31, 2010. DALSA, headquartered in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, with key operations in Canada as well as the Netherlands and Japan, designs, develops, manufactures and markets digital imaging products and semiconductors. Teledyne funded the acquisition by borrowing under its bank credit facility and with cash on hand. DALSA’s revenues totaled CAD $212.3 million for 2010. As discussed on pages 24 to 27, while there are risks associated with acquisitions generally, including integration risks, there are additional risks associated with owning and operating businesses internationally, including those arising from U.S. and foreign policy changes and exchange rate fluctuations. In 2011, with this acquisition, a greater percentage of Teledyne’s revenues and expenses will arise from international sources. In addition, like other Teledyne businesses, continued innovation and research and development efforts will be required to maintain Teledyne DALSA’s leadership position in digital imaging products and semiconductor production. Teledyne DALSA’s business also may be more capital intensive than other Teledyne businesses, increasing Teledyne’s capital requirements. Further, Teledyne DALSA currently relies on a number of single-point of failure pieces of manufacturing equipment or processes within its semiconductor business. While it may monitor such equipment and processes, including where appropriate maintain redundant equipment, spare components or service agreements with equipment manufacturers, a catastrophic failure of such equipment or processes could have a material adverse impact on its business. Additionally, Teledyne continues to work to close, in the first quarter of 2011, the previously announced divestiture of its general aviation piston engines businesses to Technify Motor (USA) Ltd., a subsidiary of China-based AVIC International Holding Corporation, for $186.0 million in cash. These piston engines businesses comprise Teledyne’s discontinued operations (formerly Teledyne’s Aerospace Engines and Components segment) and had $133.7 million in revenues in 2010. As discussed on pages 27 to 29, there are risks particular to these businesses that have historically been greater than those faced by other Teledyne businesses, such as those associated with product liability claims, product recalls and insurance coverages. The general economic downturn and the lack of availability of credit have tended to adversely impact sales of general aviation aircraft more than sales in some other markets in which we participate. When Teledyne no longer owns these piston engines businesses, such risks should be reduced. With the recently completed acquisition of DALSA and upon completion of the pending divestiture of Teledyne’s piston engines businesses, Teledyne will be transformed into an electronics, instrumentation, digital imaging and engineering focused company. Accordingly, the risk profile of Teledyne will change, and may differ materially, from prior years. Among other things, as highlighted above, Teledyne will face more international and business risks and it will no longer face the risks associated with being a manufacturer and seller of general aviation engines and related components. A larger percentage of Teledyne’s sales will be to commercial customers as opposed to the U.S. Government. We sell products and services to customers in industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic activity. We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy exploration and production markets, each of which has been cyclical and suffered from fluctuating market demands. Strong demand and increased prices for oil and natural gas historically has contributed to substantial revenue growth at Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne ODI and our other marine businesses. A cyclical downturn in these markets 19 Table of Contents may materially affect future operating results, particularly given our broader range of marine instrumentation businesses acquired since 2003. Domestic and international commercial aerospace markets are cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new commercial aircraft has been related to the stability and health of domestic and international economies. If economic conditions do not improve and the credit markets further tighten, it may continue to be difficult for the commercial airlines and aircraft leasing companies to obtain credit to buy new airplanes. Delays or changes in aircraft and component orders could impact the future demand for our Teledyne Controls and other products and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of the OEM customers of our discontinued operations are privately-held and may not be well-capitalized. Over the last several years a few aircraft manufacturing customers of Teledyne Continental Motors have filed for bankruptcy protection. While Teledyne Continental Motors tries to monitor its customers’ payment streams and financial wherewithal and avail itself of available pre-bankruptcy protections, among other things, such actions may only mitigate losses, not prevent them. Any future credit problems with our customers could result in write-offs or reimbursements of purported preferential payments, and could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of our discontinued operations. Some of our businesses, including newly acquired Teledyne DALSA, are also suppliers to the semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical by nature. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns. Any downturn in the semiconductor industry or any other industry that uses a significant number of semiconductor devices, such as consumer electronic products, telecommunication devices, or computing devices could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, we sell products and services to customers in industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic activity and consumer spending habits and in more mature industries that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries may reduce demand for our products and services, which may reduce our profits, or our production levels, or both. Some of our businesses serve industries such as power generation and petrochemical refining, which may be negatively impacted by reductions in global capital expenditures and manufacturing capacity. Changes in demand in the industries in which we do business also can result in the inventory we carry becoming excess or obsolete. Further, Teledyne DALSA relies on a small number of customers in its semiconductor business. Given this lack of diversity, small fluctuations and inventory corrections at the end customer level could negatively impact this acquired company’s operating results, as well as that of the Digital Imaging segment. Our dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to many risks: Our revenue from government contracts depends on the continued availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and, accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing contracts may be canceled or diverted to other uses or delayed. We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 44% of our total revenue in 2010, as compared with 47% in 2009 and 44% in 2008. Performance under government contracts has certain inherent risks that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal years. The timing of program cycles can also affect our results of operations for a particular quarter or year. It is not uncommon for the Department 20 Table of Contents of Defense to delay the timing of awards for major programs for six to twelve months, or more, beyond the original projected timeframe. The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis could delay procurement of our services and products and cause us to lose future revenues. In years when Congress is not able to complete its budget process before the end of the U.S. Government’s fiscal year on September 30, Congress typically funds government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from customers on work we are already performing and will likely result in new initiatives being delayed or in some cases cancelled. The U.S. Government’s failure to complete its budget process, or to fund government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution, may result in a U.S. Government shutdown which could result in a material loss of revenues for us. U.S. defense spending is expected to continue to moderate and then decline in some areas over the next few years. An emphasis on Federal deficit and debt reduction could lead to a decrease in overall defense spending. The continued war on terrorism and the Iraq and Afghanistan wars also could result in a diversion of funds from programs in which Teledyne participates. In addition, continued defense spending does not necessarily correlate to continued business for us, because not all of the programs in which we participate or have current capabilities may be provided with continued funding. Changes in policy and budget priorities by the President, his Administration and our Congress for various Defense and NASA programs could continue to impact our Engineered Systems and Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments. For example, changes in national space policy that affect NASA’s budget are likely. There have already been significant reductions in missile defense budgets and we anticipate continuing scrutiny of those budgets to impact our revenues. Our Engineered Systems segment may be further impacted by delays in production funding on the Joint Air to Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) program. In addition, reductions and delays in research and development funding by the U.S. Government may continue to impact our revenues. As the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, referred to as DARPA, reviews its programs aimed to enhance technologically U.S. military capabilities and national security, changes to the DARPA research and technology development programs in which we participate could occur. Finally, various Department of Defense initiatives, such as the emphasis on in-sourcing positions to the Government and the planned closure of the Joint Forces Command could negatively impact our Engineered Systems segment. Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides a variety of products for several military platforms, including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Teledyne CML Group Limited, part of our Engineered Systems segment, also provided products for this aircraft. Development and production of this aircraft is very expensive and there is no guarantee that the Department of Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will continue to provide funding to manufacture and support the F-35 aircraft or other platforms for which we provide products. In 2010, delays in the F-35 program were announced. In 2009, Congress had made the decision to curtail F-22A aircraft funding. Reallocation of funding priorities within the Department of Defense could also affect repair and spares sales for older military platforms, including, by way of example, sales of our traveling wave tubes for F-15, F-16, F-18, EA-6B, B-52, B-1, C-130 and U-2 aircraft. Our participation in government programs may decrease or be subject to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time. The relocation to Huntsville, Alabama of the Missile Defense Agency or MDA has resulted in the transfer to the MDA of certain missions and functions from the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command or SMDC. New leadership at the MDA is conducting solicitations that could impact support by our Engineered Systems segment to the Agency. For example, all MDA government engineering support services work is now to be recompeted at the conclusion of each existing contract, and several major prime contracts under which we perform such services are nearing the end of their respective periods of performance. The U.S. Government has also placed emphasis on Organizational Conflict of Interest or OCI. As a result, requests for proposals in the areas of engineering support, testing and operational analysis are restricting bidders from related development and integration work. This may require some businesses or subsidiaries of 21 Table of Contents Teledyne to abstain or withdraw from contract competition if other Teledyne businesses may be affected by an OCI. In particular, the MDA is reconsidering its policy on OCI. It is reviewing all OCI mitigation plans and may require more rigid mitigatory conditions going forward, potentially limiting our participation in certain major MDA programs, such as Ground-Based Midcourse Defense. The U.S. Government has been placing emphasis on small business quotas and increasing small business contract set asides and minimum work percentages. In some cases, prime contractors are required to reduce large subcontractor participation in order to fill small business quotas and be responsive to proposals and bids. Additionally, the General Accounting Office or GAO has issued rulings which favor the interests of small businesses under multiple award Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity or IDIQ contracts. Several of the contracts under which we perform engineering support services for MDA are of this type and, as a result, our engineering services business could be significantly impacted. Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc.’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense (“GMD”) program has been negatively impacted by both the nominal end date of development activity and the change in focus of the current Administration relative to missile defense. Teledyne Brown Engineering’s revenues for the GMD program declined from approximately $43 million in 2008 to $31 million in 2009 to $14 million in 2010. Although MDA plans to award a deployment and sustainment contract for GMD, we expect that Teledyne Brown Engineering’s revenues under this activity will continue to decline in 2011. This reduction is due to a number of factors including the completion of the current deployment cycle, the change in MDA focus toward a phased regional deployment defense architecture, continued Federal government personnel in-sourcing and increased small business participation requirements in Department of Defense contracts. We have been a significant participant in NASA programs, primarily through our Engineered Systems segment and through Teledyne Scientific Company. Our current NASA activities focus on the James Webb Space Telescope, payload operation and integration on the International Space Station (ISS), and concept development, engineering services and integration for new NASA launch vehicles. During 2010, the President introduced significant changes to the National Space Policy. The President and Congress continue to discuss NASA’s future direction. Although the outcome of these discussions remains uncertain, current plans include the cancellation of NASA’s Constellation Program which includes Ares launch vehicles, utilization of commercial launch vehicles for crew and cargo ISS expeditions, and development of a NASA heavy lift launch vehicle for space exploration. As a result of these changes, we will attempt to transition our business to meet the needs of the new policy and programs. However, failure to transition our business successfully could result in reduced sales. In addition, delayed decisions and funding for NASA’s new space policy could negatively impact our business. We may not be successful in bidding for future contracts, which would reduce our revenues or slow our growth. We obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may not be successful in having our bids awarded. In addition, we may spend substantial amounts of time, money and effort, including design, development and marketing activities, required to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us. In 2010, we incurred $14.3 million on bid and proposals costs, compared with $13.7 million in 2009 and $13.7 million in 2008. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination rights that could adversely affect us. Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Even when not expressly included in a U.S. Government contract, courts have validated termination for convenience as a matter of public procurement policy. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to termination. Termination for default clauses impose liability on the contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items 22 Table of Contents from another source. During 2010, Teledyne had two U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience, one of which was in our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment and one of which was in our Engineered Systems segment. We did not have any of our U.S. Government contracts terminated for default during 2010. We may lose money or generate less than expected profits on our fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government contracts. There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (54% of our total U.S. Government contracts in 2010, 50% in 2009 and 48% in 2008). Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. This is particularly true when the contract is awarded and the price finalized in advance of final completion of design. Under such contracts, we must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce profitability or cause a loss. We have also experienced some volatility in the pricing of certain raw materials and components underlying our fixed-price contracts. Such contracts are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance. We cannot assure that our contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money on some contracts if we fail to meet these estimates. Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts are linked to meeting specified technical, cost and/or schedule targets, including development or testing deadlines. Fees may also be influenced or be dependent on the collective efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we had no or limited control. Our business is subject to government contracting regulations and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our operating results and prospects. We, like other government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. Generally, claims arising out of these U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should the business or division involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that the business or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that business or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges were proven or were to result in negotiated settlements. United States and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the mass protests and turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence, nuclear proliferation concerns and potential epidemics increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the mass protests and turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence and nuclear proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq, Afghanistan, Egypt and Middle East situations and perceived nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect us. The reaction to Iran’s continuing desire to explore nuclear capabilities could adversely affect oil prices and some of our businesses. The reaction to Egypt permitting Iran to sent warships through the Suez Canal could adversely affect some of our businesses. While some of our businesses that provide products or services to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand as a result of increased U.S. Government defense spending, various responses could realign 23 Table of Contents government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of our government programs. The President, his Administration and Congress could also further alter government programs. Government spending could shift to the Department of Defense or Homeland Security programs in which we may not participate or may not have current capabilities. These decisions could curtail less pressing non-defense programs in which we do participate, including Department of Energy or NASA programs. Government spending could also shift towards non-defense programs in which we do not currently participate. Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and heightened security alerts, as well as after the H1N1 virus, SARS and bird flu scares. Additional declines in air travel resulting from such factors and other factors could adversely affect the financial condition of many of our commercial airline and aircraft manufacturer customers and, in turn, could adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. In addition, a prolonged virus epidemic or pandemic, or the threat thereof, could result in worker absences, lower productivity, voluntary closure of our offices and manufacturing facilities, disruptions in our supply chain, travel restrictions on our employees, and other disruptions to our businesses. Moreover, health epidemics may force local health and government authorities to mandate the temporary closure of our offices and manufacturing facilities, as was done with our Mexico operations in 2009. Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. The U.S. Government continues to evaluate potential security issues associated with general aviation. Increased government regulations, including but not limited to increased airspace regulations (including user fees), could lead to an overall decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment as well as our discontinued operations. As happened after the September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for general aviation aircraft piston engines and components of our discontinued operations and associated products of Teledyne Battery Products. Potential reductions in the need for general aviation aircraft maintenance as a result of declines in air travel could also adversely affect our discontinued operations. Higher oil prices could adversely affect commercial airline-related customers of our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. Higher oil prices could also reduce general aviation air travel, negatively affecting our discontinued operations. Conversely, lower oil prices could decrease oil exploration and petrochemical refining activities and hinder our marine and other instrumentation businesses, including Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne TSS Limited, Teledyne Benthos, Inc., Teledyne D.G. O’Brien and Teledyne ODI, Inc., as well as some of our other businesses such as Teledyne Storm Products, Inc. In addition, instability in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions could adversely affect expansion plans of the oil and gas industry customers of our instrumentation and cable solutions businesses. Violence and crime in Mexico, particularly in border towns where we conduct some manufacturing activities, could adversely affect our relays and cable solutions businesses. Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as: • our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition; • our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; 24 Table of Contents • the distraction of management resulting from the need to integrate acquired businesses; • increased competition for acquisition targets, which may increase acquisition costs; and • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business. While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of protection, including indemnification from a seller and sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly matters identified after a closing. We have also acquired several private companies, including the 2010 acquisitions of Optimum Optical Systems, Inc. and Hafmynd ehf (now known as Teledyne Gavia ehf). Private companies generally do not have as formal or comprehensive internal controls and compliance systems in place as public companies. While we have required various sellers to take certain compliance actions prior to the closing of an acquisition, including making voluntary disclosures under various export control laws and regulations, and have sought protections in the purchase agreement for such matters, there is no assurance that we have identified all issues or will be fully protected from historic liabilities. After acquiring a company, notwithstanding pre-closing due diligence, we have discovered issues that required further action, including making voluntary disclosures under various defense and export control laws and regulations. While the products and customer base of the companies we have acquired over the years are complementary to some of Teledyne’s existing businesses, there is no assurance that we will achieve all identified financial, operating and marketing synergies. We may also experience problems that arise in entering new markets through acquisitions in which we may have little or no experience. In 2011, we expanded our international presence with the acquisition of DALSA, which has operations in Canada, the Netherlands, Japan, China and Germany, as well as the United States. Additionally, in 2010, we expanded our United Kingdom presence with the acquisition of Intelek plc. Our United Kingdom operations accounted for approximately 5% of total revenues in both 2010 and 2009 compared with 4% in 2008. There are additional risks associated with owning and operating businesses internationally, including those arising from U.S. and foreign government policy changes or actions and exchange rate fluctuations. Further, it has been postulated that the United Kingdom economy may be recovering more slowly from the 2008 global economic crisis than the economies in the United States and mainland Europe. In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain synergies and cost-savings. For example, in 2009, we consolidated the 2008-acquired Moorpark, CA-based operations and assets of Demo Systems LLC, principally with Teledyne Controls, El Segundo, CA. We also combined and relocated, with minimal disruption, the operations of the 2008-acquired Teledyne Impulse and long-time owned Teledyne Interconnect Devices to a new leased facility in San Diego, CA. In addition, in 2009, we relocated the principal operations of both 2008-acquired Teledyne TSS Limited and Teledyne Cormon Limited to more modern and larger facilities close to their prior locations. Nonetheless, despite planning, relocation and consolidation of manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to involve, among other things, change of personnel, application of a new business system software and learning or adaptation of manufacturing processes and techniques. As a result, production delays at a new operating location may occur. Under SEC rules, Teledyne must issue a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. The SEC permits a limited time-based exclusion for acquisitions to give a company an opportunity to evaluate more fully the internal controls of acquired companies and correct deficiencies and institute new or additional internal controls. Our 2010 management’s report specifically excludes from its scope and coverage our 2010 acquisitions of Intelek plc, Optimum Optical Systems, Inc. and Hafmynd ehf, allowing us additional time to evaluate existing internal controls and implement additional controls as appropriate. With regard to future acquisitions, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect to these acquired companies or other acquisitions. 25 Table of Contents In connection with our acquisitions, including ones which we do not complete, we may incur significant transaction costs. We are required to expense as incurred such transaction costs, which may have an adverse impact on our quarterly financial results. We are subject to the risks associated with international sales, which could harm our business or results of operations. During 2010, sales to international customers accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenues, as compared to 26% in 2009 and 24% in 2008. We anticipate that future sales to international customers will continue to account for a significant and increasing percentage of our revenues, particularly since business and growth plans for many Teledyne businesses focus on sales outside of the United States, including to emerging markets such as China and Brazil. The DALSA acquisition will also contribute to greater international sales. Risks associated with these sales include: • political and economic instability; • international terrorism; • export controls, including U.S. export controls related to China and increased scrutiny of exports of marine instruments, digital imaging and other products; • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; • changes in U.S.-China relations; • transportation, including piracy in international waters; and • exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our products to international customers and therefore reduce our competitive position. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our European customers may no longer find our product prices more attractive than European competitors. With the acquisition of Canadian-based DALSA, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar, or other foreign currencies, could adversely affect the business, operations and the financial condition of our Digital Imaging segment. Sales of our products and services internationally are subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. Violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more businesses or the entire corporation. Depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. Concerns over theft of technology for military uses, nuclear proliferation concerns, terrorism, diversion and other factors have resulted in increased export scrutiny of international sales, including some of our marine instruments, digital imaging and other products to international customers. There has also been increasing export oversight and regulation of sales to China. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern, African and other countries may negatively affect continuing international sales or service revenues from such regions. There are also U.S. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as varying currency, political and economic risks. Among other things, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, while we have procedures in place and conduct FCPA training, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Further, the United Kingdom recently adopted, but delayed 26 Table of Contents implementation of, the U.K. Bribery Act, which raises the bar for anti-bribery law enforcement and compliance relative to the FCPA. Any determination that we had violated the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, when implemented, or equivalent anti-bribery and corruption laws in countries in which we do business could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our business. As of January 2, 2011, we had $250.0 million in total outstanding indebtedness which included $250.0 million in senior unsecured notes issued and sold in a private placement transaction in September 2010 and no amounts under our prior $590.0 million credit facility. On February 25, 2011, we refinanced our prior $590.0 million credit facility that was set to expire in July 2011 and had $273.0 million outstanding under our new $550.0 million credit facility, which does not terminate until February 25, 2016. Our indebtedness could harm our business by, among other things, reducing the funds available to make new strategic acquisitions. Our indebtedness could also have a material adverse effect on our business by increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business. General adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business could result in our inability to repay this indebtedness in a timely manner. Also, borrowing rates are higher under our new $550.0 million credit facility due to changes in market conditions since our last credit facility was put in place in 2006. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates results in an annual interest expense of approximately $2.7 million, assuming the $273.0 million in floating rate debt were outstanding for the full year. We may also elect to raise other forms of debt capital, depending on financial, market and economic conditions. Product liability claims, product recalls and field service actions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products, including aircraft engines (which is part of our discontinued operations and subject to divestiture), monitoring instruments and medical devices, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for immaterial amounts. While we have general liability and other insurance policies concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. (now part of discontinued operations and subject to divestiture), is approximately $5.0 million, a decrease from $17.2 million for the prior annual period. Our existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on May 31, 2011. Additionally, based on facts and circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Awarded damages could be more than our accruals. We could incur losses above the aggregate annual policy limit as well. Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. In 2009, our discontinued operations commenced two product recalls for which pre-tax charges aggregating $20.8 million had been recorded to cover estimated costs associated with the recall and replacement of the affected cylinders and lifters. We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not identify any of our products as a source of asbestos exposure, and we have been dismissed from cases for lack of product identification, but only after some defense costs have been incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne” name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our 1999 spin-off. Our historic insurance coverage, including that of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and the defense of such matters. Coverage 27 Table of Contents typically depends on the year of purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend to defend these claims vigorously. Congress from time to time has considered tort reform to deal with asbestos-related claims, but to date nothing has materialized. Certain gas generators historically manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. contained a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the company has transitioned to a replacement material, had placed warning labels on its products and took care in handling of this discontinued material by employees, there is no assurance that the Company will not face product liability or workers compensation claims involving this component. Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory is certified by the Department of Energy and the Nuclear Procurement Issues Committee, also known as NUPIC, and has other nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently have errors and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with faulty radiological analyses. Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. and other Teledyne companies manufacture components for customers in the nuclear power market, including utilities and certain governmental entities. The components include, for example, penetration assemblies, waste storage canisters, and process equipment. Certain liabilities associated with such products are covered by the Price Anderson Act and other statutory and common law defenses, and we have received indemnities from some of our customers. However, there is no assurance we will not face product liability claims related to such products. We cannot assure that we will not have additional product liability claims or that we will not recall any additional products. We may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such coverage. As a manufacturer of a variety of products, including aircraft engines used in general aviation aircraft (now part of our discontinued operations and subject to divestiture), we have general liability and other insurance policies that provide coverage beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We cannot assure that, for 2011 and in future years, insurance carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product liability, especially as it relates to general aviation. Over the last several years, the number of insurance companies providing general aviation product liability insurance coverage has decreased. Even if such insurance is available, we may be required to pay substantially higher prices for coverage and/or increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. Our current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on May 31, 2011, and has an annual self-insured retention of approximately $5.0 million. To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, we continue to work to reduce manufacturing and other costs and also to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on our aircraft engines and spare parts. We cannot provide assurances that further cost reduction efforts will prove successful or that customers will accept additional price increases. Aircraft engines and spare part cost increases, coupled with increased costs of insurance for general aviation aircraft owners, tend to result in decreasing aftermarket sales of our piston engines and component parts. This, in turn, leaves our discontinued operations more dependent on sales to OEMs, which is more dependent on general economic conditions. For certain electronic components for medical applications that we manufacture, such as those that go into cardiac defibrillators, we have asked for indemnities from our customers and/or to be included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however, provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of our manufacture of such components. Additionally, while we have been exiting the manufacture of some medical components, claims may still arise after such manufacturing ceases. 28 Table of Contents Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can affect insurance coverages, such as the crash of Air France Flight 447 in the Atlantic Ocean in June 2009, the American International Group, Inc. 2008 failure and bailout, the devastating 2005 hurricane season or September 11th events, our ability to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for such insurance are affected by our historical claims experience. While we have taken steps to improve our claims management process over the last few years, we cannot assure that, for 2011 and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance, or the cost for such insurance, or the amount of self-insured retentions, reserves or limits, will not be negatively impacted by our experience in prior years. Our pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are affected by factors outside of our control, including the performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and actuarial data. We have a defined benefit qualified pension plan covering most of our U.S. employees hired prior to 2004. The value of the combined pension assets is currently less than our accumulated pension benefit obligation. Given our pension plan’s underfunded status, in 2004 we began making required cash contributions to our qualified pension plan. In 2010, we made pretax cash contributions to our U.S. defined benefit qualified pension plan totaling $37.0 million, all of which was beyond what was required under ERISA. For 2009 and 2008, pretax cash contributions totaled $117.0 million and $58.7 million, respectively. In 2011, we currently expect to make a pretax voluntary cash contribution of $37.0 million, plus an additional $32.0 million pretax voluntary cash contribution if the divestiture of our piston engines businesses is completed. The accounting rules applicable to our qualified pension plan require that amounts recognized in the financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions are made to the plan. Two significant elements in determining our pension income or pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting pension benefit obligations. Declines in the stock market and lower rates of return could increase required contributions to our qualified pension plan. Any decreases or increases in market interest rates will affect the discount rate assumption used in projecting pension benefit obligations. If, and to the extent, decreases are not offset by voluntary contributions or asset returns, our required cash contributions and pension expense could increase under the plans. For additional discussion of pension matters, see the discussion under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and Notes 2 and 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At the end of 2007, we changed some investment allocations to reduce exposure to deterioration in the subprime mortgage market. Throughout 2008 and until the latter part of 2009, given market disruptions and volatility, we maintained a greater amount in fixed income investments, including in U.S. Treasury notes, to achieve greater stability in our pension assets. During the second half of 2009, we began to change our investment strategy to more active management and increase our equity investments. Due to timing of investment allocation changes, we may not have benefited from some upswings in certain investments and in the future we may not benefit from any such upswings to the extent we change investment allocations to meet our current strategy. Additionally, our investment strategy may not be successful if the credit, financial or stock markets deteriorate. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairment charges. Under current accounting guidance, we are required to test annually both acquired goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less than the carrying value, including goodwill, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of the business, including such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we have accumulated $546.3 million of 29 Table of Contents goodwill, and have $113.9 million of net acquired intangible assets, which includes $37.8 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets of $1,557.8 million at January 2, 2011. As a result, the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. We also may be required to record an earnings charge or incur unanticipated expenses if, as a result of a change in strategy or other reason, we were to determine the value of other assets had been impaired. Generally accepted accounting principles require that a long-lived asset to be disposed of be reported at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. An asset (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) is considered impaired when estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. In the event the carrying amount of such asset is not deemed recoverable, the asset is adjusted to its estimated fair value. Fair value is generally determined based upon estimated discounted future cash flows. We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and development and capital expenditures or possible acquisitions. In order to remain competitive, we must make a substantial investment in research and development of new or enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities. In September 2006, we acquired Rockwell Scientific Company LLC, a provider of research and development services primarily in the areas of electronics, optics, information sciences and materials technologies. With Teledyne Scientific Company in our portfolio, we have been more actively promoting and funding joint research and development projects with other Teledyne businesses, including Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., Teledyne Reynolds, Inc. and our Teledyne Oil & Gas businesses. In 2010, we funded $47.0 million for research and development, compared to $45.1 million in 2009 and $47.8 million in 2008. Our capital expenditures totaled $31.0 million in 2010, $33.5 million in 2009 and $38.2 million in 2008. Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations and available borrowings under our new $550.0 million credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated working capital, research and development and capital investment needs, including increased capital spending required by Teledyne DALSA, we may be unable to fund all of these needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within our control, including the existence of a public offering market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions. Although we successfully issued and sold $250.0 million in senior unsecured notes in a private placement transaction in September 2010, we may be unable to successfully raise additional capital, if needed. Failure to successfully raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in certain new markets. We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop new products to expand into new market segments. We have been developing new electronic products, including high-power solid state microwave devices and tactical military camera systems, which are intended to access markets in which Teledyne does not currently participate or has limited participation. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if our products do not meet our customers’ requirements, as a result of changes in either technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by our competitors. Limitations in customer funding for applied research and development and technology insertion projects due to the present economic conditions and the significant expenditures in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as ongoing turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, may reduce our ability to apply our ongoing investments in some market areas. For example, our Engineered Systems segment’s development of Service Oriented Architectures for U.S. Department of Defense applications relies heavily on funding from customers who are actively competing for resources with war driven recapitalization, resupply and modernization requirements. Teledyne DALSA is reliant on the Next Generation of Job Fund which is a grant from a provincial government authority to support research and development expenditures. Teledyne DALSA is also reliant on 30 Table of Contents some government authorities for various tax incentives related to research and development, which drive and promote research and development spending. Changes in the Canadian and provincial governments’ policies could inhibit Teledyne DALSA’s ability to participate in new markets. As discussed elsewhere herein, there has been a downturn in the general aviation market as a direct result of deteriorated economic and credit conditions in the United States and the world generally. In addition to our discontinued operations, as previously stated, this deterioration could further impact battery sales of our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. While we will try to offset such impact with battery sales to the military and into other applications, we may not be able to offset any such impact. Advanced lithium ion aircraft battery technology could also adversely affect our lead batteries sales and our ability to enter into new OEM jet markets. We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could harm our growth and prospects. Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that satisfy customer requirements. However, our involvement, through the 2011- acquisition of DALSA, in the microelectronic innovation center in Bromont, Quebec, Canada, will provide us with access to a well-equipped MEMS research and development center, which we believe may help to improve our technology development capability. Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly address new industry standards and technological changes. As an example, we continue to work to develop high power solid state power amplifiers, which could replace our traveling wave tubes in some applications, and, in this field, there is a larger base of potential competitors than there is for tube amplifiers. As a result, it may be more difficult for our solid state power amplifier products to gain market acceptance. We may also lose any technological advantage to competitors if we fail to develop new products in a timely manner. For example, if we fail to timely develop a permanent reservoir monitoring system for deep water applications, our growth and prospects in the deep water arena could be hampered. Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as development and testing time periods might be accelerated or condensed. Technological change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or non-competitive. The markets for some of our products and services are characterized by rapid technological development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or services, or in market demand for products or services based on a particular technology, could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, Teledyne Reynolds’ high voltage connector business could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower voltage requirements where the number of competitors is larger. Most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use illumination devices that require high voltage connectors. LED backlights, which are increasingly being used for aircraft lighting displays, have substantially lower voltage requirements. Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products or services. For example, effective July 1, 2006, a European directive, referred to as RoHS or the Restriction on Hazardous Substances directive, provided that certain electronic 31 Table of Contents products must not contain impermissible levels of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls or polybrominated diphenyl ethers. As a result, we must make sure that certain of our electronic products sold into European member states comply with this directive. Although many of our products are exempt from the European directive, we continue to expect that, over time, component manufacturers may discontinue selling components that have the restricted substances. This will, in turn, require us to accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are soldered, and may, in some cases, require redesign of certain products. This could lead to increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from our customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share to competitors. The European Union’s 2007-adopted Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substance reform legislation, commonly referred to as REACH, which requires registration and selective evaluation of more than 30,000 chemical substances that are deemed of high risk to environment, health and safety, is also expected to have, over time, an impact on the electronics supply chain similar to the RoHS. Additionally, similar laws restricting hazardous substances have been promulgated in various non-European countries, including China and Korea, as well as in various U.S. states. Revenues of our Teledyne Test Services business, which provides testing and certification for products used in nuclear power plants, could be negatively impacted in the event of any changes in certification standards by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency continues to target general aviation fuel as a key contributor to lead in the atmosphere and could try to impose lead-free fuel regulations on general aviation. Such a change in the fuel standard could have an adverse impact on our discontinued operations, including increasing research and development costs. In part, we have been working to manufacture an engine that uses diesel fuel to address this risk. We may not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy customers’ cost reduction mandates, which could harm our sales or margins. More and more customers continue to seek price reductions of our products. While we continually work to reduce our manufacturing and other costs of our products, without affecting product quality and reliability, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so and do so in a timely manner to satisfy the pricing pressures of our customers. Cost reductions of raw materials and other components used in our products may be beyond our control depending on market, credit and economic conditions. Customers may seek lower cost products from China and other developing countries where manufacturing costs are lower. The airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. We include, with the products and replacement parts that we sell to our aircraft industry customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers. If any material authorization or approval qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products and services. Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. New or existing competitors may also develop new technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Industry acquisition and consolidation trends, particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, have adversely impacted demand for our aerospace and defense related engineering services as large prime contractors in-source increased amounts of major acquisition programs and also require significant expansion in small business participation to meet Government contracting goals. Low-cost competition from China and other developing countries could also result in decreased demand for our products. Increasing competition could reduce the volume of our sales or the prices we may charge, which would negatively impact our revenues. We sell products to customers in industries that may again undergo rapid and unpredictable changes, which could adversely affect our operations results or production levels. We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001, many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market, or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future and may adversely affect our operating results, or our production levels, or both. We also manufacture products using fuel cell technology, which is a market that is not well-established and subject to significant change and evolution. Our Engineered Systems segment manufactures gas centrifuge service modules for Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as agent for USEC, Inc., used in the American Centrifuge Project. We anticipate increased sales of gas centrifuge service modules in 2011 due to a likely return to full production for the American Centrifuge Project. In May 2010, USEC announced that Toshiba and Babcock and Wilcox signed definitive agreements to provide co-investments of $100 million each in the American Centrifuge Plant payable in three installments. In late July 2010, USEC updated its application to the Department of Energy, which triggered the initial investment of $75.0 million from Toshiba and Babcock and Wilcox. In anticipation of a favorable adjudication of its loan application and in light of the investment from the new partners, USEC began remobilization of the project in early September 2010. However, USEC has not authorized a return to full production. Failure to secure the loan guarantees would seriously jeopardize USEC’s ability to finance, and therefore complete, the centrifuge project. Continuation of this project beyond mid-year 2011 may depend on USEC receiving a favorable ruling regarding its loan guarantee application. If USEC does not receive a favorable ruling, future funding on this program could be reduced or eliminated. In such an event, our Engineered Systems segment may experience reduced sales. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by conditions and other factors associated with our suppliers. Some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products, including certain gyro components for some marine navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our traveling wave tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates are purchased from limited or single sources of supply due to technical capability, price and other factors. We have also outsourced from time to time the manufacturing of certain parts, components, subsystems and even finished products to single or limited sources, including international sources. For example, Teledyne Relays outsources the manufacture of certain relays and relay components to Taiwan and India, as well as our own facility in Mexico. Teledyne Imaging Sensors outsources the manufacture of read-out integrated circuits for focal plane arrays to a Taiwanese foundry. Disruption of these sources could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products or increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operations. International sources possess additional risks, some of which are similar to those described above in regard to international sales. With any continuing 33 Table of Contents disruption in the global economy and financial markets, some of our suppliers may also continue to face issues gaining access to sufficient credit to maintain their businesses, which could reduce the availability of some components and, to the extent such suppliers are single source suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to continue to manufacture and sell our products. Continuing economic pressure on suppliers may also trigger increased pricing or workforce reductions or reduced workweeks possibly creating longer lead times to obtain needed components for our products. Compliance with increasing environmental and climate change regulations, as well as the effects of potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We, like other industry participants, are subject to various federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly as green house gas emissions and climate change regulations and initiatives increase. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. While we have, as part of our overall risk management program, an environmental management and compliance program applicable to our operating facilities, including a “review and audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every three years, such program does not eliminate potential environmental liabilities. In addition, while we conduct environmental-related due diligence in acquisitions and generally seek some form of protection, including indemnification from a seller, companies we acquire may have environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition. For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other Matters — Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Increased environmental regulatory monitoring requirements of the air we breathe and the water we drink could have a favorable effect on the results of operations or financial condition of our instrumentation businesses, including the sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and ozone gas monitoring business of Teledyne Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., the air quality monitoring business of Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc., the water quality monitoring business of Teledyne Isco, Inc., and the mercury monitoring business of Teledyne Leeman Labs. In contrast, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s efforts to limit lead emissions from general aviation gasoline could adversely affect our discontinued operations. Consequently, in part, we have been working to manufacture an engine that uses unleaded diesel fuel to address this risk. Also, while our lead-acid battery manufacturing facility in Redlands, CA has scrubbers and other pollution control devices in place, additional lead-related air-emission limitations and other requirements could trigger additional expenditures and adversely affect the financial results of our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that greenhouse gases (GHGs) threaten the public health and welfare of the American people. EPA also maintains that GHG emissions from on-road vehicles contribute to that threat. EPA’s endangerment finding covers emissions of six greenhouse gases — carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). EPA’s efforts to limit GHG emissions could adversely affect our U.S. manufacturing operations. Restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions may impact energy, fuel and transportation prices. Restrictions on HFCs, PFs and SF6 gases may impact the way these compounds are used and controlled at certain of our facilities. This may, in turn, require us to accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are manufactured, and may, in some cases, require redesign of certain products. This could lead to increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share to competitors. 34 Table of Contents Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We also have a maturing work force. While we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Engineered Systems segment has been facing increasing competition for qualified engineering personnel as a result of the Department of Defense 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (also known as BRAC) decisions, particularly as positions continue to move to Huntsville, Alabama over the next several years. In addition, the U.S. Secretary of Defense announced in 2009 that the Department would decrease the use of contractors in support services and increase funding for civil service positions in those areas. As a result of this trend, our Engineered Systems segment lost personnel as their jobs were changed from contractor to Federal civil service positions. This trend may continue in 2011. The Engineered Systems segment is also losing personnel due to employees pursing vacancies that have been created in various industries as other employees accept employment with the U.S. government. A labor strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on our business. While we believe our overall relations with our employees to be good, a labor strike or work stoppage at our union-represented or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on us. The International Union of United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents approximately 250 active employees at our Teledyne Continental Motors piston engine manufacturing facility in Mobile, Alabama under a collective bargaining agreement that expires by its terms on March 20, 2013. This union also represents approximately 10 active employees at the Teledyne Turbine Engines facility in Toledo, Ohio under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on November 8, 2014. Upon expiration of these agreements, there can be no assurance that a strike or work stoppage would not occur. As Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. is part of discontinued operations and is subject to divestiture, the Mobile, Alabama collective bargaining agreement and the active employees represented thereby will be included with the sale. We may not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, businesses that we determine no longer meet with our growth strategy. Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy. Most recently, this review led to the decision to sell our general aviation piston engines businesses, which sale is expected to close in the 1st quarter of 2011. After the June 2004 acquisition of Isco, Inc., we determined that the on-line process control instrumentation business of its German subsidiary was not aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005, we sold this non-strategic business. In 2007, principally because of the decision of a customer to manufacture certain medical products at its facilities in India, we closed our contract manufacturing operations in El Rubi, Tijuana, Mexico and transferred the remaining operations to our La Mesa, Tijuana, Mexico and our Lewisburg, Tennessee facilities. Our ability to dispose of or exit businesses that may no longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sell non-strategic businesses on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any non-strategic business cannot be consummated or is not practical, alternative courses of action, including closure, may not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated. 35 Table of Contents Natural disasters, such as a serious earthquake or wildfire in California, a major hurricane in Alabama, Florida or Texas, or an ice storm in Canada, as well as man-made environmental disasters such as 2010 Gulf of Mexico Oil spill, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Several of our facilities, as a result of their locations could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods, ice storms or other natural disasters. Many of our production facilities and our headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas with above average seismic activity and may also be at risk of damage in wildfires. Teledyne DALSA’s facility in Quebec has in the past been impacted by severe ice storms. In addition, we have manufacturing facilities in the Southeastern United States and Texas that have been threatened and struck by major hurricanes. Our facilities in Alabama, Florida, Nebraska and Tennessee have also been threatened by tornados. While Teledyne Continental Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing facility located in Mobile, Alabama (which is now part of our discontinued operations and subject to divestiture), Teledyne Geophysical Instruments’ facility in Houston, Texas, Teledyne ODI’s facility in Daytona Beach, Florida and Teledyne Odom’s facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana were relatively fortunate with respect to the building damage and business interruption they suffered during the previous hurricane season, there can be no assurance that any one of them will be as fortunate in the future. If any of our California facilities, including our California headquarters, were to experience a catastrophic earthquake or wildfire loss or if any of our Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Nebraska, Tennessee or Texas facilities were to experience a catastrophic hurricane, storm, tornado or other natural disaster, such event could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or facilities. While Teledyne has property insurance to partially reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement, such insurance would not cover all possible losses. In addition, our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans (including those relating to our information technology systems) may not be fully responsive to, or minimize losses associated with, catastrophic events. The environmental disaster triggered by the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and oil spill in 2010 resulted in a moratorium on offshore oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico that adversely affected the results of operations of some of our Teledyne Oil and Gas businesses, although such adverse impact was offset, in part, by the products we manufacture that supported well-capping and environmental clean-up efforts. Similar future man-made disasters that limit or cease offshore oil and gas production or further exploration in the regions in which we sell our products could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, as our Teledyne Controls business has experienced, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. Our financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP, and actual results may differ materially from those estimated under different assumptions or conditions. Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These principles require our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 36 Table of Contents revenue and expenses during the reporting period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for items such as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment assessments, employee benefits, taxes, recall costs, aircraft product and general liability and contingencies. While we base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time made, actual results may differ materially from those estimated. While we believe our internal control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based, in part, upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Provisions of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of Teledyne Technologies more difficult. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated Bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make the acquisition of control of Teledyne, in a transaction not approved by our board of directors, more difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with 16 members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover effect. These provisions may prevent or discourage attempts to acquire our company. The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do so. Since the spin-off from ATI on November 29, 1999, the market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of $7.6875 to a high of $66.21 per share. During 2010 alone, the market price of our Common Stock ranged from $35.34 to $45.25 per share. At February 25, 2011, our closing stock price was $52.57. Fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • acquisitions; • divestitures; • adverse business developments; • war in the Middle East or elsewhere; • terrorist activities; 37 Table of Contents • military or homeland defense activities; • changes to the U.S. Federal budget; • changes in the energy exploration or production, semiconductor, digital imaging, telecommunications, commercial and general aviation, and electronic manufacturing services markets • general market conditions; • changes in tax laws; • general economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • one or more of the other risk factors described in this report. The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology companies in particular, have experienced a high degree of volatility that is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as to our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. By letter dated February 28, 2011, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance at the Securities and Exchange Commission has informed us that there remains an unresolved comment with respect to the staff’s review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010, filed on March 2, 2010. The staff believes that each of our business units are operating segments and that any aggregation of operating segments into reportable segments should begin at the business unit level and that our fiscal 2010 Form 10-K disclosure should reflect this approach. We have determined that our reporting business units are aggregated into four reportable segments (not including discontinued operations) as set forth in this 2010 Form 10-K. After an extensive and careful review, including consultation with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our external auditors, including their national office, we believe our determination of operating segments and reportable segments is consistent with applicable accounting literature, including Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification ASC 280 — Segment Reporting. We have determined that there is no impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets if impairment testing is performed at the reporting business unit level. We will continue to work with the Securities and Exchange Commission to resolve this comment. If the SEC does not agree with us, we may amend and restate our 2010 Form 10-K to reflect a different reporting segment structure. 