Risk Factors In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section, in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks we face. If any of these risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. We have historically incurred losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $184.3 million. We expect to continue to invest in significant sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and other expenses that may exceed our gross revenue. As a result, we may continue to experience losses and negative cash flows in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain profitability, or have continued losses, or have negative cash flows, may cause our stock price to decline and impair our business and financial prospects. We face risks related to the class action and derivative lawsuits. Certain former officers, independent directors and the Company have been named defendants in various pending class action and derivative lawsuits. The findings and outcome of pending SEC investigations into our accounting practices may affect these lawsuits. Under Delaware law, and our charter and bylaws, we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers who are named defendants in any of these lawsuits and advance legal fees and costs. We are unable to estimate our liability in these matters and we may be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses in aggregate amounts that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We carry director and officer liability insurance. However, if the plaintiffs are successful, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the judgment or our insurers may deny coverage. For a further description of the nature and status of these legal proceedings see, “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” We have a contract with a major customer that is expected to terminate in November 2006. If we do not generate other sources of revenue before this contract terminates, or we do not renew this contract, it would adversely affect our future operating results. An ISD outsourcing contract with the Medical University of South Carolina, representing approximately 15%, 16%, and 20% of total Company revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is expected to terminate in November 2006. Revenue from this customer represented approximately 32%, 33% and 24% of total ISD revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. This contract, which has historically produced low operating margins, was recently renewed for the final year of its nominal five-year term. The customer has notified us of their intention to bring these services in-house by the end of 2006. In such event, unless we are able to replace the revenue, total revenue and results of operations for the ISD and the Company beginning in 2007 would be adversely impacted. Our future revenue growth depends on our ability to successfully launch new products. Each of our divisions plans to launch new products or expand upon current offerings in 2006. • The ISD is expected to launch the Intelligent Health Broker Suite, a new product which enables legacy applications to utilize web services and provides process orchestration of transactions flowing among disparate systems. • The CareScience division is expected to launch CareScience Standards of Care, a new solution for external public reporting. • The Rogue Wave Software division is expected to launch ROGUE WAVE® Hydra, a new service-oriented architecture product and service suite. 16 Table of Contents We may not successfully launch these products on schedule and we may not achieve market penetration for these new products. With limited resources, we may not have adequate capital to market and sell Rogue Wave Hydra to the expected marketplace that could use the product. We may face difficulties in the introduction and sale of these new products if they do not meet market expectations. We anticipate that early customers will require us to prove the value and functionality of these new products on a no-risk or low-risk basis, and the sales and support costs of the introductions may be substantial or exceed our expectations. The new products may not perform as anticipated and consequently may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. Additionally, any delay in launching these new products may cause us to miss the window of opportunity and negatively impact our ability to grow revenue. We operate in an industry with rapidly changing technology and, if we do not successfully modify our products to incorporate new technologies or introduce new products, we may not be able to increase revenue or our revenue may decline. The software market in which each of our divisions compete is characterized by (1) rapid technological change, (2) frequent introductions of new products, (3) changing customer needs, and (4) evolving industry standards. To keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs, we must support existing products and develop new products. We may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products or new versions of our products that respond to technological developments, evolving industry standards or changing customer requirements. Additionally, we have limited capital resources to invest in new product development and we may not make effective investment decisions. In addition, our performance depends on organizations requiring information delivery, and seeking outside vendors to develop, manage and maintain this software for their critical applications. Many of our potential customers have made significant investments in internally developed systems and would incur significant costs in switching to our products, which may substantially inhibit the growth of our software. These market factors may cause us to lose market share and our revenues would be adversely affected. Further, we may face significant competition from open source software offerings that are provided to users at no charge by competitors to our Integration Solutions and Rogue Wave Software divisions. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of new products and enhancements. In addition, our new products or enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, we may not be able to increase our revenue or our revenue may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We face increased competition in the marketplace that could impact our operations negatively. We face competition for our products and services from several large companies. Consolidation in the industry has resulted in many of our competitors becoming part of larger companies and these large competitors have considerably more resources to draw on than we have. Our smaller size and limited resources negatively impact our ability to grow revenue and acquire new customers. We face saturated or diminishing markets for some of our key products. Our core product offering from the Integration Solutions division, the CLOVERLEAF® product suite, is sold primarily to the healthcare industry. Segments of this market are close to saturation, and therefore revenues may decrease within this market segment. While the CLOVERLEAF® product suite remains competitive, the existing domestic market is becoming saturated and we may need to sell our products and solutions in new geographic areas and develop new solutions with our customers that leverage the assets of our CLOVERLEAF® product suite in order to sustain and grow revenue. The primary development tools sold by our Rogue Wave Software division, the SourcePro® and Stingray® tools, target the C++ programming language, which is diminishing in usage when compared with other programming languages such as Java. In such circumstances, customers may elect to acquire “end of life” rights to the 17 Table of Contents products, paying a one-time fee for perpetual future use. Customers who elect this option no longer have an obligation to pay for the continuing updates and support fees, thereby reducing recurring revenue for the division. We expect to launch new products to offset anticipated declines and enable growth in the Rogue Wave Software division, which could create internal competition with existing products, diminish existing revenue streams and negatively impact our revenue. A significant portion of our recurring revenue comes from maintenance agreements that require periodic renewals. Our ability to sustain recurring revenue is largely dependent on retaining current customers under maintenance agreements. Revenue from maintenance agreements is included in recurring services revenue and represented 27%, 27% and 17% of the total Company revenue for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We have recently experienced a decline of 2% in recurring revenue and the decline may continue. For software licensed under a perpetual license agreement, customers have the option to continue to utilize software without renewing maintenance and support. Electing to not renew maintenance and support will keep them from receiving current releases, bug fixes, telephone support and other post contract support. If we cannot maintain renewal rates we will not be able to sustain and increase revenue. We have risk in sustaining professional service revenue in our markets. We realize a significant percentage of revenue in our Integration Solutions division from professional services which have lower margins than our software license and maintenance revenues. Our Rogue Wave division plans to increase the amount of professional services revenue it generates based on the implementation of its new product Rogue Wave Hydra. We have recently experienced a decline of 9% in services revenue and the decline may continue. Professional services are a very competitive market that is highly dependent on the quality of our staff and reputation. We face much larger competitors in this segment of the business, who have considerably more resources than we have. We also face competition from smaller companies that can be more cost competitive in the delivery of solutions. Our vulnerability to competition is a risk factor. In addition, professional service development projects require close collaboration with the client, particularly in managing the change-order process, and present factors that are often outside of our control. The length and nature of these projects expose us to the risks of not completing the project on time or at all, of not meeting client expectations, or not staying within budget, any of which may cause customers to delay payment for work performed or could lead to complex and expensive litigation, any of which could have a material adverse affect on revenue, cause the margin for these projects to decrease, and negatively impact our ability to grow this segment of our business. Our Integration Solutions and Rogue Wave Software divisions rely on the effectiveness of channel partners and third-party influencers to help achieve revenue goals. If we fail to maintain and expand these types of relationships, our business may suffer. Relationships with new and established channel partners are critical to our future success. These relationships include independent software vendor, distributor, co-marketer and system integrator relationships. We rely on these partners to assist us in generating increased acceptance and use of our applications, services, and product offerings. We have established a number of these relationships, and our growth depends on establishing new relationships and maintaining existing ones. Our Rogue Wave Software division relies on channel partners to sustain SourcePro sales and plans to leverage these relationships to help launch Rogue Wave Hydra in the market. Our Integration Solutions division relies on these relationships to grow sales and increase market share. Certain channel partners may not view these relationships with us as significant to their own businesses, and they may reassess their commitment to us or decide to compete directly with us in the future. We generally do not have agreements that prohibit the other parties from competing against us directly or from contracting with our competitors. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that any channel partner will perform its obligations as agreed or that we would be able to specifically enforce any agreement with them. Our failure to maintain and expand these relationships may negatively impair our future revenue. 18 Table of Contents We face risks related to a formal investigation being conducted by the SEC. We have been cooperating with the SEC with respect to a formal order of investigation and subpoena regarding certain transactions in 2002 and 2003. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. An unfavorable outcome with respect to this investigation could cause our stock price to decline significantly. If the SEC finds wrongdoing on our part, a financial or administrative penalty may be imposed which could jeopardize our financial viability. Such findings could provide basis for additional lawsuits. Additionally, if the SEC pursues litigation against any of our former officers, the Company will have an obligation to pay the officer’s legal defense costs under Delaware indemnification requirements and existing indemnification agreements. These costs have been significant to this point and continued activity and costs could adversely impact results of operations. Goodwill, other intangible assets and capitalized software make up a significant portion of our total assets and are subject to recurring tests for impairment. We have a history of recording impairments for these assets and future impairments could adversely affect our operating results. Our goodwill balance at December 31, 2005 was $46.7 million and represented 39% of total assets. Intangible assets from our acquisitions totaled $13.9 million, or 11% of total assets at December 31, 2005. We are required to test goodwill annually, and other intangible assets periodically, for impairment and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate assets might be impaired. Risks described elsewhere in this section could impair the market value of our common stock or our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which could result in the impairment of these assets. In 2002, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $93.1 million. Capitalized software totaled $7.4 million at December 31, 2005 which is 6% of total assets. In assessing the recoverability of our existing capitalized software assets, we rely on estimates and judgments to determine the net realizable value of each product. When evaluating the net realizable value of a given product, we prepare a forward-looking business case that is comprised of an assessment of future revenue to be generated. If the future revenue is less than the carrying value, an impairment is recorded. Our ability to estimate future expected revenues and benefits with a measured degree of probability is the most significant factor in our estimate of recoverability. If our ability to estimate the expected future benefits changes significantly in any given period, we could record impairment charges for certain assets and our operating results could be adversely affected. If the projected revenues do not cover the value of the capitalized software, the asset must be impaired. In 2004, we recorded a write down of capitalized software in our ISD division of $4.8 million. We are exposed to infringement risks. Our intellectual property is central to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and the functionality of our applications overlaps with competitive offerings. These claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and damages, divert our attention from operating our company, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event an intellectual property claim against us were to be successful and we could not obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or redesign to avoid infringement, most of our contracts would require us to refund a portion of the software license fees, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed. In addition, we may not be able to protect against misappropriation of our intellectual property. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights, we may not detect this unauthorized use and we may be unable to enforce our rights. We rely on third parties for technology in our products. We depend upon third-party suppliers and licensors to provide software that is incorporated into certain of our products and the products that we distribute. Some of the software included as components of CareScience products are subject to exclusive licenses that are critical to this business. We have limited control over the scheduling and 19 Table of Contents quality of work of these third-party software suppliers and licensors. Additionally, the third-party software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our agreements to license certain third-party software will terminate after specified dates unless they are renewed. If we were to have a dispute with a third party regarding our rights under an agreement, the third party may have the right to terminate our use of such software and/or obtain damages. We expect to sell multiple products to the same customers and problems with the third party technology in one product may adversely affect sales of other products to the same customer. Certain products include so called “open source” software. In some cases open source software imposes on us certain requirements to license others both the open source software as well as software that relates to, interacts with, or that is a derivative work of the open source software. These open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products, including the obligation to make source code available. Because open source software is generally available, it cannot be protected as a trade secret and competitors and others would have access to such software and the right to modify or distribute such software. Also, in many instances where we obtain open source software, we would not be able to determine if the provider of such code has legal right to provide such code to us under the open source license terms. Our products may be affected by unknown software defects. Our products depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Complex software often contains defects, particularly when first introduced or when enhancements or new versions are released. Although we conduct extensive testing, we may not discover software defects that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed. To date, we have not experienced any material software defects, however despite continued testing, defects may occur in our software. These defects could cause performance interruptions, which could damage our reputation with existing or potential customers, increase our service costs, cause us to lose revenue, delay market acceptance or divert our development resources, any of which could cause our business to suffer. In particular, we market software products in our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions that are designed to assist our healthcare customers in meeting their HIPAA compliance obligations. Failure of these products to perform as intended could cause our customers to incur significant fines and penalties for non-compliance, which in turn could result in damages and claims against us. Additionally, system failures or failure by our service providers may cause service interruptions to our transaction customers in the CareScience division and could damage customer relations. Our contracts generally limit our liability arising from our errors; however, these provisions may not be enforceable and may not adequately protect us from liability. While we have general liability insurance that we believe to be adequate, including coverage for errors and omissions, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on reasonable terms in the future. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover large claims and our insurer could disclaim coverage on claims. If we are liable for an uninsured or underinsured claim or if our premiums increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to recruit and retain key employees who are essential to our operations. We rely on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. Key employees may leave our employ for other opportunities and we may experience difficulty in recruiting new employees to replace them. We continue to incur losses each year and the size of the Company as compared to other companies that compete with us for qualified employees may inhibit our ability to retain and recruit key employees. In addition, we have historically used equity incentive programs, such as employee stock options and stock purchase plans, as a component of overall employee compensation arrangements. Changes in these programs which we have recently adopted in response to business conditions and new accounting rules may decrease the value of these equity incentives to our current and prospective employees and potentially impair our ability to retain and recruit key employees. If we can not retain or recruit key employees our ability to sustain revenue will be negatively impacted. 20 Table of Contents We could incur liabilities related to the regulation, use and misuse of information. Many aspects of our business relate to the use, sharing and processing of information, particularly in our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions. As a result, we are subject to many regulations, including the Health Insurance and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA and other privacy regulations that are designed to protect the privacy and prevent the misuse of personal information in the marketplace. Our operations involve collecting data, processing data and redistributing data, including data that we receive from third parties. As a result, we may become involved in any matter relating to the misuse of such data and we may incur liability for any such misuse of that information by other parties simply as a result of our involvement in the process. The data privacy and security regulatory environment is rapidly changing. We may not be able to comply with changes in the regulatory environment in an efficient, cost-effective manner. Security breaches in our facilities, computer network and databases, or third-party facilities used for data processing and managed services, may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Many security measures have been instituted to protect the systems and to assure the marketplace that these systems are secure. If users gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential third-party information that is stored or transmitted on our databases. In addition, misuse by our customers of our information services could harm our business and reputation, result in loss of customers and expose us to liability. If security of our customer and patient information were to be compromised, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could suffer. We retain confidential customer and patient information in our processing centers. Therefore, it is critical that our facilities and infrastructure, or third-party facilities used for data processing and managed services, remain secure and that these facilities and infrastructure are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Additionally, the security requirements under HIPAA, impose security requirements. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If we fail to meet our clients’ or regulatory expectations, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could suffer. Our insurance may not protect us from this risk. If compliance with government regulation of healthcare becomes more costly and difficult for our customers, we may be unable to increase revenue in our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions. Participants in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulation under numerous federal, state and local laws. Some of these laws apply directly to our business; many others indirectly affect the way we do business. Our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions service providers, and payer customers who are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of our business relationships with them. The healthcare market is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations. Changes in current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 or MMA, as well as changes in healthcare administration and communications requirements, such as HIPAA, have in the past and may continue to cause us to make unplanned enhancements of software applications or services, result in delays or cancellations of orders, or result in the revocation of endorsement of our applications and services by healthcare participants. The immediate and long term effect of the laws such as MMA and HIPAA is difficult to predict. Our success depends on our ability to develop and maintain strategic alliances that will allow us to anticipate industry changes and enable us to position the CareScience division products accordingly. Our products and services may not adequately address the business and compliance needs created by these and other enactments, and we may be unable to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare market participants operate. At present, there is renewed and increasing interest in healthcare at the federal and state 21 Table of Contents levels, including the implementation of national and/or regional healthcare interoperability initiatives and the revamping of the scope or manner of coverage by state and federal health care programs. Our interoperability solutions may not be the technology that will be selected by these initiatives. Healthcare market participants may respond to anticipated change in these areas by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our applications and services. We do not know what affect these or other proposals would have on our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions business. The uncertainty over if, when, and in what form any such proposals would be implemented could have a negative impact on our Integration Solutions and CareScience divisions business as customers may choose to wait to see the final form of any such legislation or regulations and/or demand guarantees or other concessions related to potential changes. As we increase our international sales, we become subject to uncertainties in the international marketplace which could adversely affect our operating results. Revenue from the sale of Integration Solutions and Rogue Wave products and services outside the United States accounted for 15%, 12% and 6% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. Our current strategy relies upon continued penetration of international market opportunities in our Integration Solutions and Rogue Wave Software divisions. In such events, our exposure will increase the risks inherent in conducting business internationally including, fluctuation in currency exchange rates, taxation laws, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. In addition, expanding our international operations will increase our exposure to other risks and uncertainties: • Our core products contain strong encryption technology that is subject to export control regulation. These regulations prohibit us from selling in certain countries and to certain persons. Our inadvertent failure to properly restrict our sales could subject us and our management to fines and other sanctions and impair our financial condition and our reputation. • We face increased uncertainty of enforcement of contractual provisions and enforcement of judgments in our dealings with non-U.S. persons. Our inability to properly defend or enforce our contract rights could materially impair our business prospects and financial condition. • Our sales and marketing activities subject us to stringent privacy regulation that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction making compliance difficult. Our inability to comply with these regulations could subject us to sanctions that could impair our ability to effectively market our products and sell in the international marketplace. If we do not establish and maintain our brands, our reputation could be adversely affected. In order to increase our customer base, we must establish, maintain and strengthen our brands. For us to be successful in establishing our respective corporate and divisional brands, professionals in healthcare, financial services, telecommunications, information technology and other targeted markets must perceive us as offering high quality, cost-effective, reliable products and related services, including consulting, implementation, education, hosting, maintenance and support. Our reputation and brand names could be harmed if we experience difficulties introducing new product and service offerings, such as our Rogue Wave Software division’s Rogue Wave Hydra product launch. Additionally brand names and reputation could be harmed if these offerings are not accepted by customers and/or distribution channel partners, if we are required to discontinue existing offerings or if our products and services do not function as represented. The trading price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be volatile. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: • Our stock price has traded well below the $5.00 per share minimum threshold established by many institutional investors as criteria for ownership; • The legacy effect of unresolved SEC and stockholder litigation issues; 22 Table of Contents • A relatively small float and low trading volume in our shares; • A decline or increase in analyst coverage; • Changes to the Company’s plan and/or prospects; • Sales of our common stock by large, institutional investors; Declines in our stock price would constrain our ability to issue stock to raise cash or make acquisition. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the Board of Directors will be divided into three classes, each consisting, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors, with each class having a three-year term. Stockholders may take action only at a stockholders’ meeting and not by written consent. Our bylaws provide that stockholders wishing to nominate a director at a meeting or to bring business before any meeting of stockholders must comply with strict advance written notice provisions. Our bylaws also provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our Board of Directors, or certain of our officers, or by resolution of our directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions are intended to enhance the likelihood of continuity and stability in the composition of our Board of Directors and in the policies formulated by our Board of Directors. We also intended these provisions to discourage certain types of transactions that may involve an actual or threatened change of control. As a consequence, they may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our shares that could result from actual or rumored takeover attempts. Such provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. In 2000, we adopted a stockholder rights plan and distributed a dividend for each share of common stock. This dividend took the form of a right, which entitles the holders to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock. In certain events after the rights become exercisable they will entitle each holder, other than the acquirer, to purchase, at the rights’ then current exercise price, a number of shares of common stock having market value of twice the right’s exercise price or a number of the acquiring company’s common shares having a market value at the time of twice the rights’ exercise price. The adoption of the rights plan makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 