ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our company, business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We discuss material risks and uncertainties below. To the extent any of these risks and uncertainties materialize, our business, results of operation and financial condition would suffer. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating our company. We may experience difficulties identifying, analyzing and consummating strategic alternatives, and any such alternatives may not lead to the achievement of desired results. On February 19, 2009, we announced that we had engaged an investment banker to assist the Company in exploring strategic alternatives available to the Company for enhancing shareholder value. The strategic options we may consider could include a variety of different business and financial actions including, but not limited to: combinations with or sale to another entity; the sale or spin off of certain assets; strategic partnerships and joint ventures; the acquisition of complementary businesses, technologies or product lines; investments in new businesses; extraordinary cash dividend or distribution; recapitalization, stock repurchases; equity or debt financings; or other alternatives. Any strategic decision will involve an evaluation and judgment of the risks, uncertainties and present challenges in implementation and integration. As a result, any such business arrangement or transaction may not lead to increased shareholder value. In addition, any strategic decision could lead to non-recurring or other charges. The process of evaluating a strategic alternative, even if not consummated, will require the commitment of internal resources. Such activities require a great deal of management time and attention, as well as expense and likely distraction from other activities of the business, which could jeopardize our ability to be successful in our ongoing operations. Moreover, our sales and marketing efforts may be adversely affected by this process, as customers delay or forego buying decisions relating to the Soapstone products. As part of our announced process, we will consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, companies, products or technologies, in complementary and other markets, although no acquisitions or investments are currently pending. To date, we have had no experience completing acquisitions or managing the integration of acquisitions. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to successfully complete or integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire or seek to acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Any acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs of the acquisitions or may result in other adverse effects, including without limitation issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders. The future success of our Soapstone business depends on the successful development and commercialization of our Soapstone products, which are in development. As a result of the discontinuation of our core router business to focus on our Soapstone business, we no longer manufacture, sell, develop or support our legacy core router products. Our future revenue depends on our ability to successfully develop and market our Soapstone products, which are unproven in the market and many of the features and functions of which are in development. To date, our operations relating to Soapstone have consisted primarily of research and product development, customer demonstrations and interoperability testing, the establishment of strategic partnerships and preliminary marketing. Further development and extensive testing of our Soapstone products will be required to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability. Product development and launch delays may result from numerous factors, including: • engineering complexities relating to external (equipment) realities and internal (software) limitations; • the inability to obtain and maintain experienced and committed partners for product testing; • integration and interoperability challenges; 11 Table of Contents • claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property; • difficulties hiring and reallocating existing engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations as a result of the transition; • slower acceptance or lack of acceptance of Carrier Ethernet and NGN architectures; • the timing and level of research and development expenses; and • the inability to develop direct and indirect sales channels. Any delay in the development, introduction or marketing of our Soapstone products could result in such products missing the market opportunities related to emerging industry technology. In light of the long-term nature of our projects, the nature of technology involved, and the other industry factors, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete successfully the development or marketing and sales of the Soapstone products. Our Soapstone business focuses on the development of a limited number of products and our revenue depends on the successful deployment and enhancements to these products and their commercial success. Our research and development efforts are focused on the Soapstone Networks Provider Network Controller (“PNC”) framework. We anticipate that substantially all of our revenue will be derived from this family of products as well as additional related products. As most of our Soapstone products are currently in development they have not been fully tested in customer networks under operational conditions. We need to complete the development of the full features and functionality of the PNC, and over time, additional modules, successfully launch these solutions, and create enhancements to the features and functionality of these solutions to meet target customer requirements. Any failure in the development, launch, and continuing enhancements to these products could adversely affect our future revenue. The market for the Soapstone products is new and evolving, and our business will be adversely affected if the market does not develop as we expect or develops more slowly than we expect. We expect that new network developments such as the adoption of Carrier Ethernet, as well as the need for carriers to organize around business opportunities in managed services such as virtual private network (VPN), virtual private LAN services (VPLS), connection-oriented services such as Voice over IP and video over IP, IPTV, Internet and wholesale services, will require the use of common physical infrastructure and network virtualization into each of these areas. We also expect that in connection with the development of the market for Carrier Ethernet networks, the requirement for an external control plane that allows Ethernet to be used as a carrier class transport network will present a market opportunity for our Soapstone products. Although our Soapstone products are being developed to operate within any network architecture, based on any protocol, the success of our initial Soapstone products depends on our ability to take advantage of the new and expanding Carrier Ethernet network. However, the Carrier Ethernet market is competing with other network technologies such as multi protocol label switching (MPLS), which are favored by dominant companies in the industry. Our first commercially released Soapstone PNC product addressed the provider backbone transport (PBT) portion of the Carrier Ethernet market. The PBT market has not emerged as we had planned which has had an adverse effect on the market for the initial Soapstone PNC product. We have now focused our development, sales and marketing efforts on other Carrier Ethernet technologies. If the market for these Carrier Ethernet networks does not develop in the way that we expect, or if the industry does not adopt Carrier Ethernet or adopts it more slowly than we expect, the anticipated market for our products will be significantly reduced, our growth opportunity may be limited and we may not be able to sell our products in any significant volume. Further, new network technologies may emerge, which may garner greater market acceptance, reduce the effectiveness of our control plane solutions and render our products obsolete. 12 Table of Contents The recent financial crisis and current uncertainty in global economic and industry conditions could negatively affect the developing market for our products, as well as our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets generally and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. Additionally, the telecommunications products and service provider markets are under severe economic stress. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including: insolvency of key partners resulting in sales delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; decreased customer confidence; decreased customer capital budgets; and the delay of the market developing for the Company’s products. We are uncertain as to how long current, unfavorable global economic and industry conditions will persist and the magnitude of their effects on our business and results of operations. If these conditions persist or further weaken, our business, market development and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have a limited operating history on our Soapstone products and your basis for evaluating us given our transition away from core router sales is similarly limited. Although we announced our intention to transition away from core router manufacturing, development and sales in April of 2007, we continued to derive substantial revenue from end-of-life core router product sales through the end of 2007 and revenue from the support of such products through the end of 2008. We have not yet had a customer sale of our Soapstone products. Accordingly, we have limited meaningful historical financial data upon which to base projected revenue and planned operating expenses and upon which investors may evaluate our prospects and us. The revenue and income potential of our Soapstone products is not ascertainable, as the products are in an early stage and the market for our Soapstone products are new and undeveloped. Accordingly, any investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. Our failure to generate revenue and manage our costs would prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. Although we recorded net income in 2006 and 2007, we had prior to 2006 and again in 2008, incurred significant losses in each quarterly and annual period since inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $402.4 million. Historically, we derived all of our revenue from sales and servicing of our legacy core router products. On April 18, 2007, we announced that we were transitioning away from the manufacture, sales, and development of core router products. We do not expect any revenue from core router product sales and service in 2009 and beyond. We anticipate that any future revenue will be derived from the sales and support of our Soapstone products, which are currently under development and have not been fully tested in customer networks. To date, we have invested significant amounts in the development of our Soapstone products, and we anticipate that our development efforts will continue to require significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which we will make long before any significant revenue related to these expenditures will be realized. We do not expect to reach profitability in 2009 and may not achieve profitability going forward unless our Soapstone products achieve commercial success. A significant portion of our operating expenses, such as personnel and real estate facilities costs, is fixed. In addition, we bear substantial expenses due to the fact that we are a public company, with public company disclosure and compliance obligations. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue and manage ongoing costs to achieve profitability. If we fail to achieve such revenue levels, even if we effectively manage product development costs, material operating losses could result. In the future we may never achieve sustained profitability or consistently generate positive cash flows from operations. 13 Table of Contents Established participants in the network infrastructure industry with greater financial and other resources than ours could influence our target market or offer products similar to ours and we may be unable to compete effectively. The competition in the network infrastructure and integration services market is intense and includes a small number of very large companies who have historically dominated the industry. Many of these companies have greater selling and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial and other resources, more customers, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry. If these companies were to focus on alternative control plane solutions, they may be able to affect the way that the market develops, influence the standards and protocols adopted by the industry, develop, enhance and expand their competitive product offerings more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their offerings, pursue acquisitions and other opportunities more readily and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively with these established competitors. Smaller companies with a narrow focus on utilizing the latest technologies may also provide significant competition, achieve commercial availability of their products more quickly and/or be more attractive to customers. The success of our Soapstone products is dependent on their acceptance by potential customers and deployment in their networks and we are unable to accurately gauge demand from our potential customers at this stage in development. The full features and functionality of our Soapstone products are still under development, have not been fully tested by, or integrated into, prospective customer networks and we do not have any committed customers. Accordingly, the extent of the demand for our products cannot accurately be assessed at this stage. The success of our Soapstone products will be dependent on their acceptance by network service providers and deployment in their networks. We cannot guarantee that our solutions will operate seamlessly with our target customers’ network technology or whether these customers will order and commercially deploy our products. If our Soapstone products do not perform as expected, do not achieve desired results in customer tests, do not interact seamlessly with customer networks, do not contain the capabilities and features required by our customers, or if we are unable to establish a brand identity with prospective customers, our products may not become widely accepted and the sales of our products would suffer as a result. We expect our sales cycle for our Soapstone products to be lengthy and may involve protracted contract negotiations, resulting in unfavorable terms or conditions or we may expend considerable resources without resulting revenue. Our target customers are network service providers, which may have leverage in negotiating terms and conditions relating to the purchase of our Soapstone products. The decision by prospective customers to purchase our products is likely to involve a lengthy sales cycle with a significant evaluation and qualification process, a protracted consultation and contract negotiation process, as well as extensive product testing for interoperability and network customization. We may sometimes be required to assume contract terms or conditions that are unfavorable in order to consummate a sale. Such terms, particularly relating to pricing, payment terms and the timing of revenue recognition, could negatively affect our revenue potential and increase our susceptibility to quarterly fluctuations in our results. Service providers may ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not in our best interest. Further, we do not expect customers to contractually commit to purchase any products from us until we have successfully demonstrated specific performance criteria. The failure of prospective customers to purchase our products, for any reason, would seriously harm our ability to build a successful business around our Soapstone products. In addition, we may expend considerable resources that we are unable to offset with corresponding revenue. 14 Table of Contents Our Soapstone products may have errors or defects or may fail to reach a level of interoperability acceptable to our target customers, which could result in significantly reduced acceptance of our products by prospective customers or costly litigation against us. Our Soapstone products are technologically sophisticated and are designed to be deployed as a control plane in complex networks. Accordingly, our products can be fully tested only when actively deployed. Despite pre-deployment qualification and internal testing, our target customers may discover errors or defects or the products may not operate as expected even after they have been fully deployed. In addition, our target customers will require that our products be designed to interface with their existing networks and services, each of which will have different specifications. Our Soapstone products must interface with existing network infrastructure and the myriad of network service technologies, as well as future products in order to meet the requirements of our customers. Because we expect our Soapstone products to be crucial to the networks of our customers, any significant interruption in their service as a result of defects in our products or the failure of our products to interoperate within our customers’ networks could result in lost profits or damage to these customers. These problems could cause us to incur significant service and warranty costs, divert engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly impair our ability to maintain customer relations and attract new customers. Although we expect that our customer contracts will generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, a court might not enforce a limitation on our liability, which could expose us to additional financial loss. In addition, a product liability claim, whether successful or not, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Further, if we are unable to fix the errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, we would likely experience loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share and our business and prospects would suffer. Because our products are to be deployed in large and complex networks, failure to establish a support infrastructure and maintain required support levels could seriously harm our business. Our Soapstone products will be deployed in complex networks and our target customers will expect us to establish a comprehensive support infrastructure and maintain the highest standards of customer support to enable them to maintain necessary levels of network availability and performance. In order to provide this service and support, our support infrastructure must have the capability to provide service and support wherever our customer networks are located. If we are unable to develop this support infrastructure and provide the expected levels of support, we could experience a loss of customers or market share, fail to attract new customers, or, depending on the negotiated service arrangement, be subject to agreement with performance penalties. We are in the process of developing and expanding our sales force to focus on the sale of Soapstone products, and we may face difficulties in managing our sales strategy and appropriately marketing our product to our target customer base. We are in the process of building a field sales force and support organization to sell and support our Soapstone products and provide customer support. Our products require a sophisticated technical sales and customer support team as we anticipate that our product sales cycle will involve educating and providing information to prospective customers about the use and features of our Soapstone products. Our inability to hire, develop and manage our sales force could adversely affect sales of our products. We also plan to sell and market our Soapstone solution through indirect distribution partners including system integrators, equipment manufacturers, resellers, and OSS partners to help market and sell our products to a broad array of organizations and allow us to leverage our field sales force. Our ability to obtain strong go-to-market distribution partners will significantly impact our ability to sell the Soapstone products to our target customer base. 15 Table of Contents Our marketing activities include direct marketing, lead generation, advertising, website operations, public relations, technology conferences and trade shows, and solutions development and certification with our partners through our SNAPP™ (Soapstone Networks Alliance Partner Program). There is no guarantee that our marketing activities will result in sufficient customer acceptance of our Soapstone products. New technology initiatives, such as Soapstone’s, require a substantial commitment of resources and are not certain of ultimate success. New technology initiatives require significant capital expenditures, management attention and resources. Our commitment of resources and capital to our Soapstone products or any other new technological concept that we may decide to pursue in the future means that those resources and capital are unavailable for other activities and operations. Our decision to launch a new product, such as Soapstone, is based on our assessment that a significant opportunity exists in the marketplace; however, investments in new technology are inherently speculative particularly in an unproven market. Commercial success depends on many factors including innovation and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends, developer support and effective distribution and marketing. In order for our products to compete effectively, among other things, we must: deliver technologically advanced products that are superior in meeting the needs of carriers; promote the market for that solution; and effectively market and sell those products to carriers and indirect channel partners, against established and emerging competitive vendors. There are no assurances that our Soapstone products or any other new technology we may develop will receive sufficient consumer acceptance and if our products do not develop and grow substantially and achieve profitability, it could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operating results, margins and profitability. Further, even if our products initially obtain market acceptance, we may not be able to effectively support the products or successfully respond on a timely basis to products introduced into the marketplace by our competitors. The unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors related to our industry, the markets for our products and how we manage our business. We have little or no control over many of these factors and any of these factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, the following may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock: • development and deployment of our Soapstone products; • the timing of new product launches; • the timing and extent of product acceptance by customers; • fluctuations and uncertainties in market and industry demands; • the sustainability of demand for our Soapstone products; • our ability to deliver products within short order timeframes; • the timing of customer orders for our products or cancellations of orders; • the timing and level of research and development and testing expenses; • the distribution channels through which we sell our products; • the timing and impact of special charges; • general economic conditions; 16 Table of Contents • conditions specific to the network infrastructure industry; • introduction of competing products; • timing of revenue recognition and deferred revenue; • changes in accounting rules, such as the requirement to record share-based compensation expense for employee stock option grants; • our ability to recruit and retain key employees, especially sales, engineering and executive personnel; and • investor perception in general of the desirability of the technology industry from an investment point of view. In the short term, we expect that investments we make in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support related to our Soapstone products will result in quarterly losses and negative cash flow from operations. A high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short term. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations for any of the reasons set forth above, or for any other reason, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Accordingly, this revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our expected operating results and could result in material operating losses for that quarter, which could result in significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. You should not rely on our results or growth for any single quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. Our ability to develop, market and support products depends on retaining our management team and attracting and retaining highly qualified individuals in our industry. Our future success depends on the continued services of our management team, which has significant experience with the data communications, telecommunications and Internet infrastructure markets, in addition to relationships with many of the network service providers and business partners on which we may in the future rely in implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of our management team or any key executive could have a significant detrimental effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train, assimilate and retain highly qualified engineering, sales and marketing, managerial, support and other personnel. The demand and competition for qualified personnel is high and the recently announced strategic review process may dampen the Company’s ability to hire and retain these highly qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers, could delay product development, particularly with respect to our Soapstone products, and negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, and we may be subject to infringement claims that could subject us to significant liability and divert the time and attention of our management. We regard our products and technology as proprietary. We attempt to protect them through a combination of patent protection, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions on disclosure and other methods. These methods may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that patents 17 Table of Contents will be granted on pending or new applications, or that, even if granted, the patents will adequately protect our technology. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and customers, and generally control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to develop similar technology independently or copy or otherwise misappropriate and use our products or technology without authorization, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our use of open source and third-party software could negatively affect our business and subject us to possible litigation. We incorporate open source software into our software solutions. We monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is somewhat unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding our products and technologies. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solutions, to re-engineer our solutions or to discontinue the sale of our solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products and may need to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain additional financing for our future capital needs. Despite our significant expenditures related to Soapstone, we expect our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will meet our normal working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. We may need to raise additional funding at that time or earlier if we decide to undertake the acquisition of complementary companies, products or technologies, or if we increase our research and development or other efforts, or in connection with any strategic alternative. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, as our Soapstone products are at an early stage of development, our target market is undeveloped and we currently do not have an established customer base, all of which create a high degree of risk. We may obtain additional financing by issuing shares of our common stock, which could dilute our existing stockholders, or through the incurrence of debt, which could affect our cash flows 18 Table of Contents and flexibility with respect to future operations, financings and acquisitions. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or respond appropriately to competitive pressures, which would seriously harm our business. The market price of our common stock might decline due to future non-cash charges to earnings. As of January 1, 2006, we account for employee stock-based compensation costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). Our adoption of this SFAS 123R resulted in material non-cash charges to our earnings and we expect such non-cash charges to continue to have a material impact on future earnings. It may not be possible to calculate the future impact with respect to stock-based grants as the amount of these charges to earnings fluctuates with the price of our common stock and other factors. It is possible that some investors might consider this impact on operating results to be material, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. We consider accounting policies related to revenue recognition, warranty liabilities, long-lived assets, restructuring and impairment charges and stock-based compensation to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our financial results. Management makes certain significant accounting judgments and estimates related to these policies. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods if our accounting judgments and estimates related to these critical accounting policies prove to be inadequate. As a result of our transition away from core router product sales to Soapstone, our revenue recognition methodology could change. Because we are entering a new business with new products, our sales model and form agreements may evolve over time and, additionally, we may be required to accept terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us in order to consummate a sale. Accordingly, if such customer contracts do not meet certain requirements, we may not be able to recognize revenue immediately and we may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results. Any failure to maintain effective internal information systems or to implement effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely impact our business. We must continue to maintain our internal information systems in order to manage our business operations. We must also maintain internal control over financial reporting in accordance with The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and intentional misrepresentations. Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable assurance that all control objectives are met. Some of the potential risks involved could include but are not limited to management judgments, simple errors or mistakes, willful misconduct regarding controls or misinterpretation. There is no guarantee that existing controls will prevent or detect all material issues or that existing controls will be effective in future conditions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial results. Under Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with this legislation will require management’s attention and resources and will cause us to continue to incur significant expense. Management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify weaknesses that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Should we determine that we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected or the price of our common stock may decline. We are in the process of enhancing our information technology systems and requirements as our business has transitioned from a hardware, manufacturing-related business to a software business. We have been and will be implementing new processes for our sales and support operations and the systems that support those operations as well as, very importantly, our accounting systems. This will entail a great deal of management time 19 Table of Contents and attention and expense, including potentially significant capital expenditures. Failure to make such changes in our processes and systems could result in inadequate and delayed information, including the delay in reporting of financial results. The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. The price at which our common stock trades is highly volatile and fluctuates substantially. Given the development stage of the Soapstone products the announcement of any significant developments including customer developments, awards or losses or of any significant partnerships or acquisitions by us or our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, the stock market in general has, and technology companies in particular have, from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. The volatility of our stock price, especially in view of the early stage of development of our Soapstone products and the related marketing operations, exposes us to the risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Those companies, like us, that are involved in rapidly changing technology markets are particularly subject to this risk. Securities class action lawsuits have been filed against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The consolidated amended complaint generally alleges that our initial public offering documents failed to disclose certain underwriting fees and commissions and underwriter tie-ins and other arrangements with certain customers of the underwriters that impacted the price of our common stock in the after-market. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages. We believe that the claims in this case against us lack merit, and we have defended the litigation vigorously. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of this securities litigation. Any conclusion of this litigation in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and/or resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of this litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurances that additional securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. Changes in our tax rates will affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates will be favorably or unfavorably affected by our ability to take advantage of the available tax planning strategies and our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. For example, at December 31, 2008, we had federal and state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $311.5 million and $159.4 million, respectively. These net operating loss carryforwards may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our income taxes otherwise payable. Our use of the net operating loss carryforwards is limited by the annual limitations as described in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. For example a change in the ownership of the Company could trigger such limitations. Our transition away from core router development and sales to focus on Soapstone could further limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in the future if or when we generate profits in our Soapstone products. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The outcomes of these examinations, if they occur, could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Delaware law could inhibit a takeover that some stockholders may consider favorable. There are provisions of Delaware law and our charter, by-laws, and Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to some of our stockholders by providing them the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the market price. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 