ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in the securities of the Progress Registrants involves risks, including the risks described below, that could affect the Progress Registrants and their businesses, as well as the energy industry in general. Most of the business information, as well as the financial and operational data contained in our risk factors is updated periodically in the reports the Progress Registrants file with the SEC. Before purchasing securities of the Progress Registrants, you should carefully consider the following risks and the other information in this combined Annual Report, as well as the documents the Progress Registrants file with the SEC from time to time. Each of the risks described below could result in a decrease in the value of the securities of the Progress Registrants and your investment therein. Solely with respect to this Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” unless the context otherwise requires or the disclosure otherwise indicates, references to “we,” “us” or “our” are to each of the individual Progress Registrants, and the matters discussed are generally applicable to each Progress Registrant. We are subject to fluid and complex government regulations that may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by multiple federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of our business, including customer rates, retail service territories, reliability of our transmission system, applicable renewable energy and energy-efficiency standards, environmental compliance, issuances of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of generating facilities. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. Changes in laws and regulations as well as changes in federal administrative policy are ongoing and the ultimate costs of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The rates that PEC and PEF may charge retail customers for electric power are subject to the authority of state regulators. Accordingly, our profit margins and ability to earn an adequate return on investment could be adversely affected if we do not control and prudently manage costs to the satisfaction of regulators, or if we do not obtain successful outcomes in our regulatory proceedings. Such regulatory decisions may be impacted by economic and public policy considerations within the respective jurisdictions. The NCUC, the SCPSC and the FPSC each exercise regulatory authority for review and approval of the retail electric power rates charged within its respective state. The Utilities’ state utility commissions approve base rates, which by law must give a utility a reasonable opportunity to recover its operating costs and return on invested capital. They also approve recovery of certain additional costs, known as “pass-through” costs, over and above base rates through cost-recovery clauses, which vary by jurisdiction; examples include fuel costs, certain purchased power costs, qualified nuclear costs and specified environmental costs. The commissions can disagree with our request of appropriate base rates, and can disallow either requested base rates or pass-through recoveries on the grounds that such costs were not reasonable and prudent. The Utilities expect increased future expenditures in several key areas including, but not limited to, environmental compliance, new and existing generation, transmission and distribution facilities, renewable energy and energy-efficiency standards compliance (as applicable), DSM programs and fuel and other commodities. Such cost increases will be subject to scrutiny from regulators, policymakers and ratepayers. As referenced above, the commissions may disallow any costs that they find unreasonable and imprudent. 29 Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generating facilities by the Utilities and their ability to deliver electricity to customers. Operating our electric generating facilities and delivery systems involves many risks, including: § operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, including repair and replacement power costs; § failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure; § operational limitations imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; § inadequate or unreliable access to transmission and distribution assets; § labor disputes and inability to recruit and retain skilled technical workers; § inability to successfully and timely execute repair, maintenance and/or refueling outages; § interruptions to the supply of fuel and other commodities used in generation; § failure to comply with FERC-mandated reliability standards for the bulk power electric system; § inadequate coal combustion product management (disposal or beneficial use) capabilities; and § catastrophic events such as hurricanes, floods, extreme drought, earthquakes, fires, explosions, terrorist attacks, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences. Occurrences of these events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Meeting the anticipated demand in our service territories and fulfilling our environmental compliance strategies will require, among other things, modernization of coal generation facilities, the construction within the next decade of new generation facilities and the siting and construction of associated transmission facilities. We may not be able to obtain required licenses, permits and rights-of-way; successfully and timely complete construction; or recover the cost of such new generation and transmission facilities through our base rates or other recovery mechanisms, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Meeting the anticipated demand within the Utilities’ service territories and complying with existing and potential environmental laws and regulations will require a balanced approach. The three main elements of this balanced solution are: (1) expanding our energy-efficiency programs; (2) investing in the development of alternative energy resources for the future; and (3) operating state-of-the-art plants that produce energy cleanly and efficiently by modernizing existing plants and pursuing options for building new plants and associated transmission facilities. The risks of each of the elements of our balanced solution include, but are not limited to, the following: Energy-Efficiency and New Energy Resources We are expanding our DSM, energy-efficiency and conservation programs and will continue to pursue additional initiatives as these programs can be effective ways to reduce energy costs, offset the need for new power plants and protect the environment. We are subject to the risk that our customers may not participate in our conservation programs or that the results from these programs may be less than anticipated. This could impact our compliance with state-mandated energy-efficiency standards as discussed in the risks regarding renewable energy standards. Also, not achieving the energy-efficiency and conservation measurements we assumed in our long-term resource planning could require us to further expand our generation or purchase additional power at prevailing market rates. We are also subject to the risk that customer participation in these programs or new technologies that impact the quantity and pattern of electricity usage may decrease our electric sales and require us to seek future rate increases to cover our prudently incurred costs. As discussed further in the risk factor related to renewable energy standards, we are actively engaged in a variety of alternative energy projects. These alternative energy projects may be determined to not be cost-efficient or cost-effective. 30 Modernization and Construction of Generating Plants We are currently evaluating our options for new generating plants, including gas and nuclear technologies. In 2009, we announced our intention to retire certain coal-fired units in North Carolina that do not have emission control equipment and to construct new natural gas-fueled units at certain of these facilities. We are also evaluating the possibility of converting certain of these facilities to be fueled by natural gas or biomass. At this time, no definitive decision has been made regarding the construction of nuclear plants. Decisions to build new power plants and successful completion of such construction projects are based on many factors including: § projected system load growth; § performance of existing generation fleet; § availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; § projections of fuel prices, availability and security; § the regulatory environment, including the ability to recover costs and earn an appropriate return on investment; § operational performance of new technologies; § the time required to permit and construct; § environmental impact; § both public and policymaker support, including support for siting of power plant and associated transmission; § siting and construction of transmission facilities; § cost and availability of construction equipment, materials and skilled labor; § nuclear decommissioning costs, insurance, and costs of security; § ability to obtain financing on favorable terms; and § availability of adequate water supply. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully and timely construct new generation facilities or to expand or modernize existing facilities within our projected budgets or that those expenditures will be recoverable through our base rates or other recovery mechanisms. As with any major construction undertaking, completion could be delayed or prevented, or cost overruns could be incurred, as a result of numerous factors, including shortages of material and labor, labor disputes, weather interferences, difficulties in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or complying with license or permit conditions, and unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems. These construction projects are long-term and may involve facility designs that have not been previously constructed or that have not been finalized when that project is commenced. Consequently, the projects potentially could be subject to significant cost increases for labor, materials, scope changes and changes in design. Unsuccessful construction, expansion or modernization efforts could be subject to additional costs and/or the write-off of our investment in the project or improvement. The construction of new power plants and associated expansion of our transmission system will require a significant amount of capital expenditures. We cannot provide certainty that adequate external financing will be available to support the construction. Additionally, borrowings incurred to finance construction may adversely impact our leverage, which could increase our cost of capital. For certain new baseload generation facilities, we may pursue joint ventures or similar arrangements with third parties in order to share some of the financing and operational risks, but we cannot be certain we will be able to successfully negotiate any such arrangement. Furthermore, joint ventures or joint ownership arrangements also present risks and uncertainties, including those associated with sharing control over the construction and operation of a facility and reliance on the other party’s financial or operational strength. Our assumptions regarding future growth and resulting power demand in our service territories may not be realized. Like other parts of the United States, our service territories and business have been negatively impacted by the current economic conditions. The timing and extent of the recovery of the economy cannot be predicted. We may increase our baseload capacity based on anticipated growth levels and have excess capacity if those levels are not realized. The resulting excess capacity may exceed the reserve margins established by the NCUC, SCPSC and FPSC to meet our obligation to serve retail customers and, as a result, may not be recoverable. 31 Nuclear In addition to the risks discussed above, the successful construction of a new nuclear power plant requires the satisfaction of a number of conditions. The conditions include, but are not limited to, the continued operation of the industry’s existing nuclear fleet in a safe, reliable and cost-effective manner, an efficient and successful licensing process and a viable program for managing spent nuclear fuel. We cannot provide certainty that these conditions will exist. While we have not made a final determination on nuclear construction, we have taken steps to keep open the option of building a plant or plants. We will continue to evaluate the ongoing viability of our nuclear construction projects based on certain criteria, including obtaining the COL, public, regulatory and political support; adequate financial cost-recovery mechanisms; and availability and terms of capital financing. Adverse changes in these criteria could result in project cost increases or project termination. PEF has entered into an EPC agreement for Levy. More than half of the contract price is fixed or firm with agreed upon escalation factors. Generally, the EPC contractor will not be obligated to pay liquidated damages for events or circumstances that adversely affect its ability to fulfill its obligations to the extent that the events or circumstances are beyond its reasonable control and are not caused by its or its subcontractors’ negligence or lack of due diligence and could not have been avoided by the use of its reasonable efforts. For termination without cause, the EPC agreement contains exit provisions with termination fees and costs, which may be significant, that vary based on the termination circumstance. Under the EPC agreement, we are responsible for a number of matters in connection with the construction, completion and start-up of Levy, including obtaining the COL; performance, oversight and review of certain surveillance and testing functions; and acceptance of turnover of systems from the EPC contractor. Because of anticipated schedule shifts, we are negotiating an amendment to the EPC agreement. If Levy is deferred or cancelled, PEF may incur additional contract suspension, termination and exit costs that would increase its unrecovered investment. The magnatitude of these contract suspension, termination and/or exit costs cannot be determined at this time. A new nuclear plant may be eligible for the federal production tax credits and risk insurance provided by EPACT. Multiple utilities have announced plans to pursue new nuclear plants. There is no guarantee that any nuclear plant constructed by us would qualify for these incentives. In addition, other COL applicants would be pursuing regulatory approval, permitting and construction at roughly the same time as we would. Consequently, there may be shortages of qualified individuals to design, construct and operate these proposed new nuclear facilities. Gas In addition to the risks discussed above, the successful construction of a gas-fired plant requires access to an adequate supply of natural gas. The gas pipeline infrastructure in eastern and western North Carolina is limited. Existing pipelines will have to be extended to the new plant locations prior to commencement of operations, which introduces the risks associated with a critical construction project not under our direct control. Power plants fueled by fossil fuels such as natural gas and fuel oil emit GHG, which may be subject to future regulation. Coal In addition to the risks discussed above, the successful modernization of a coal-fired power plant requires the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including, but not limited to, consideration of emissions that impact air and water quality and management of coal combustion products such as slag, bottom ash and fly ash. We are subject to renewable energy standards that may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to state renewable energy standards in North Carolina. North Carolina’s standards include use of energy from specified renewable energy resources or implementation of energy-efficiency measures totaling 12.5 percent by 2021. Florida energy law enacted in 2008 includes provisions for development of a renewable portfolio standard but the rulemaking process is not complete. We may be subject to additional state or federal level standards in the future that could require the Utilities to produce or buy a higher portion of their energy from renewable energy sources. Mandated state and federal standards could result in the use of renewable energy sources that are not cost- 32 effective in order to comply with requirements. If we are not able to receive retail rates reflecting our costs or investments to comply with the state or federal standards, our financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. There are inherent potential risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the shutdown of our nuclear units, which may present potential financial exposures in excess of our insurance coverage. PEC operates four nuclear units (three of which are jointly owned) and PEF jointly owns and operates one nuclear unit. In addition, we are exploring the possibility of expanding our nuclear generating capacity to meet future expected baseload generation needs. Our nuclear facilities are subject to operational, environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, maintaining adequate capital reserves for decommissioning, limitations on amounts and types of insurance available, potential operational liabilities and extended outages, and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks. We maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, damages from an accident or business interruption at our nuclear units could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. For PEF, it may incur liabilities to co-owners in the event of extended outages or operation at less than full capacity. If the Utilities are not allowed to recover the additional costs incurred either through insurance or regulatory mechanisms, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, set license conditions, shut down a nuclear unit, or take some combination of these actions, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require us to make substantial expenditures at our nuclear plants. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Our nuclear facilities have operating licenses that need to be renewed periodically. We anticipate successful renewal of these licenses. However, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in an extended process with higher licensing or compliance costs. With the prospect of construction of a number of new nuclear facilities across the country and an aging skilled workforce, there is increased competition within the energy sector for skilled technical workers for both the construction and operation of nuclear facilities. Our ability to successfully operate our nuclear facilities is dependent upon our continued ability to recruit and retain skilled technical workers. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations, and may impact or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to numerous environmental regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, and hazardous waste production, handling and disposal. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on existing power plants and compliance plans with regard to new and existing power plants. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, authorizations and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations and permits might result in the imposition of fines and penalties by regulatory authorities. We cannot provide assurance that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new environmental regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions from revised or additional regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our ratepayers. 33 In addition, we may be deemed a responsible party for environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body or private party. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all PRPs. While we accrue for probable costs that can be reasonably estimated, not all costs can be reasonably estimated or accrued and actual costs may materially exceed our accruals. Material costs in excess of our accruals could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our coal-fired plants produce coal combustion products, primarily ash. The EPA and a number of states are considering additional regulatory measures that may affect management, treatment, marketing and disposal of coal combustion products. PEC’s impoundment dams are subject to additional state regulation due to a North Carolina law enacted in 2009. Until the applicable state agency inspects each of the affected dams, we cannot predict if additional safety-related measures will be required. We are also evaluating the effect on groundwater quality from past and current operations, which may result in operational changes and additional measures. Revised or new laws or regulations under consideration may impose changes in solid waste classifications or additional environmental controls for groundwater protection, and future mitigation of related impacts could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our compliance with environmental regulations, including those to reduce emissions of NOx, SO2 and mercury from coal-fired power plants, requires significant capital expenditures that impact our financial condition. These costs are eligible for regulatory recovery through either base rates or cost-recovery clauses. These costs could be higher than currently expected and have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The operation of emission control equipment needed to comply with requirements set by various environmental regulations increases our operating costs and reduces the generating capacity of our coal-fired plants. O&M expenses significantly increase due to the additional personnel, materials and general maintenance associated with operation of the equipment. Operation of the emission control equipment requires the procurement of significant quantities of reagents, such as limestone and ammonia. Future increases in demand for these items from other utility companies operating similar equipment could increase our costs associated with operating the equipment. Additionally, the operation of emission control equipment may result in the development of collateral issues that require further remedial actions, resulting in additional expenditures and operating costs. We are subject to risks associated with climate change, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future legislation or regulation may impose significant restrictions on CO2 and other GHG emissions. We may incur significant costs to comply with such legislation or regulation. Physical risks associated with climate change could impact us. Growing state, federal and international attention to global climate change may result in the regulation of CO2 and other GHGs. Any future legislative or regulatory actions taken to address global climate change represent a business risk to our operations and the full impact of such initiatives on our operations cannot be determined at this time; however, we anticipate that it could result in significant cost increases over time, for which the Utilities would seek corresponding rate recovery. Reductions in CO2 emissions to the levels specified by some proposals could be materially adverse to our financial position or results of operations if associated costs of control or limitation cannot be recovered from ratepayers. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, potential climate change impacts in the southeastern United States could include warmer days and nights, increased total rainfall from heavy storms, increased tropical cyclone activity, sea level rise and increased drought conditions. An increase in the number of heat waves, periods of drought and sea level rise could result in changes in energy demand due to shifting populations and industry. Destruction caused by severe weather events such as hurricanes, tornadoes, severe thunderstorms and winter storms may result in lost operating revenues due to outages, property damage and other unexpected expenses. We could become subject to litigation related to the purported impacts of GHG emissions. A number of legal actions have been filed against other electric utilities asserting public and private nuisance, trespass and negligence claims. 34 Because weather conditions directly influence the demand for, our ability to provide, and the cost of providing electricity, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and can be negatively affected by changes in weather conditions and severe weather. Weather conditions in our service territories directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities necessary to provide electricity to our customers. As a result, our future overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions were mild. While we believe that the Utilities’ markets complement each other during normal seasonal fluctuations, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Sustained severe drought conditions could impact generation by PEC’s hydroelectric plants, as well as our fossil and nuclear plant operations, as these facilities use water for cooling purposes and for the operation of environmental compliance equipment. Furthermore, destruction caused by severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, snow and ice storms, can result in lost operating revenues due to outages; property damage, including downed transmission and distribution lines; and additional and unexpected expenses to mitigate storm damage. Our ability to recover significant costs resulting from severe weather events is subject to regulatory oversight, and the timing and amount of any such recovery is uncertain and may impact our financial conditions. We are subject to incurring significant costs resulting from damage sustained during severe weather events. While the Utilities have historically been granted regulatory approval to defer and amortize or collect from customers the majority of significant storm costs incurred, the Utilities’ storm cost-recovery petitions may not always be granted or may not be granted in a timely manner. If we cannot recover costs associated with future severe weather events in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover our actual costs, our financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Under a regulatory order, PEF maintains a storm damage reserve account for major storms with provisions for implementing an interim retail surcharge in the event future storms deplete the reserve and prudency reviews of storm costs by the FPSC. Storm reserve costs attributable to PEF’s wholesale customers may be amortized consistent with recovery of such amounts in wholesale rates, albeit at a specified amount per year, which could result in an extended recovery period. PEC does not maintain a storm damage reserve account and does not have an ongoing regulatory mechanism to recover storm costs. PEC has previously sought and received permission from the NCUC and the SCPSC to defer storm expenses and amortize them over five-year periods. Our revenues, operating results and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage in our service territories and may fluctuate with current economic conditions. We are also impacted by the demand and competitive state of the wholesale market. Our revenues, operating results and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage. Customer growth can be impacted by population growth as well as by economic factors, including but not limited to, job growth and housing market trends. The Utilities are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. As our service territories experience economic downturns, residential customer consumption patterns may change and our revenues may be negatively impacted. If our commercial and industrial customers experience economic downturns, their consumption of electricity may decline and our revenues can be negatively impacted. Like other parts of the United States, our service territories and business have been impacted by the current economic conditions. The timing and extent of the recovery of the economy cannot be predicted. Additionally, our customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income or individual energy conservation efforts. Wholesale revenues fluctuate with regional demand, fuel prices and contracted capacity. Our wholesale profitability is dependent upon market conditions and our ability to renew or replace expiring wholesale contracts on favorable terms. Based on economic conditions in effect when wholesale contracts expire, the Utilities may not be successful in renewing or replacing expiring contracts. 35 Fluctuations in commodity prices or availability may adversely affect various aspects of the Utilities’ operations as well as the Utilities’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to the effects of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, coal, fuel oil, nuclear fuel, electricity and other energy-related commodities, including emission allowances, as a result of our ownership of energy-related assets. We have hedging strategies in place to mitigate fluctuations in commodity supply prices, but to the extent that we do not cover our entire exposure to commodity price fluctuations, or our hedging procedures do not work as planned, there can be no assurances that our financial performance will not be negatively impacted by price fluctuations. Additionally, we are exposed to risk that our counterparties will not be able to perform their obligations. Should our counterparties fail to perform, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at prevailing market prices. In such event, we might incur losses in addition to the amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Certain of our hedge agreements may result in the receipt of, or posting of, derivative collateral with our counterparties, depending on the daily derivative position. Fluctuations in commodity prices that lead to our return of collateral received and/or our posting of collateral with our counterparties negatively impact our liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could lead to additional collateral posting requirements. We continually monitor our derivative positions in relation to market price activity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from, among other items: § weather conditions; § seasonality; § power usage; § illiquid markets; § transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; § technological changes; § availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; § demand for energy commodities; § natural gas, crude oil and refined products, nuclear fuel and coal production levels; § natural disasters, wars, terrorism, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and § federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. In addition, we anticipate significant capital expenditures for environmental compliance and baseload generation. The completion of these projects within established budgets is contingent upon many variables including the securing of labor and materials at estimated costs. The demand and prices for labor and materials are subject to volatility and may increase in the future. We are subject to the risk that cost overages may not be recoverable from ratepayers and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely impacted. Prices for emission allowance credits fluctuate. While allowances are eligible for annual recovery in PEF’s jurisdictions in Florida and PEC’s in South Carolina, no such annual recovery exists in North Carolina for PEC. Future changes in the price of allowances could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and PEC and, consequently, on our results of operations and cash flows. As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, the Parent is dependent on upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries, primarily the Utilities; its commercial paper and bank facilities; and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets. The Parent is a holding company and, as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own. The primary cash needs at the Parent level are our common stock dividend, interest and principal payments on the Parent’s senior unsecured debt and potentially funding a portion of the Utilities’ capital expenditures through equity contributions. The Parent’s ability to meet these needs is typically funded with dividends from the Utilities generated from their earnings and cash flows, and to a lesser extent, dividends from other subsidiaries; repayment of funds due to the Parent by its subsidiaries; the Parent’s bank facility; and/or the Parent’s ability to access the short-term and long-term debt and equity capital markets. Prior to funding the Parent, its subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, their respective debt service, preferred dividends and obligations to trade 36 creditors. Additionally, the Utilities could retain their free cash flow to fund their capital expenditures in lieu of receiving equity contributions from the Parent. Should the Utilities not be able to pay dividends or repay funds due to the Parent or if the Parent cannot access the commercial paper market, its bank facilities or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, the Parent’s ability to pay principal, interest and dividends would be restricted. The Parent could change its existing common stock dividend policy based upon these and other business factors. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets on favorable terms. Limits on our access to capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we would otherwise rely on for future growth. Our cash requirements are driven by the capital-intensive nature of our Utilities. In addition to operating cash flows, we rely heavily on commercial paper, long-term debt and equity. If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy will be adversely affected. Market disruptions or a downgrade of our credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing and may adversely affect our ability to access the financial markets. If we cannot fund our expected capital expenditures and debt maturities through normal operations or by accessing capital markets, our business plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely impacted. See discussion of our expected capital expenditures in MD&A – “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Expenditures.” We issue commercial paper to meet short-term liquidity needs. When financial and economic conditions result in tightened short-term credit markets, coupled with corresponding volatility in commercial paper durations and interest rates, we evaluate other options for meeting our short-term liquidity needs, which may include borrowing from our revolving credit agreements (RCAs), issuing short-term notes, issuing long-term debt and/or issuing equity. In addition, if our short-term credit ratings are downgraded below Tier 2 (A-2/P-2/F2) we could experience increased volatility in commercial paper durations and interest rates and our access to the commercial paper markets may be negatively impacted. In that case, we would evaluate other options for meeting our short-term liquidity needs as previously described. These alternative sources of liquidity may not be available or may not have comparable favorable terms and, thus, may impact adversely our business plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in our leverage or reductions in our cash flow could adversely affect our competitive position, business planning and flexibility, financial condition, ability to service our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock, and ability to access capital on favorable terms. As discussed above, we rely heavily on our commercial paper and long-term debt. Our credit agreements contain certain provisions and impose various limitations that could impact our liquidity, such as cross-default provisions and defined maximum total debt to total capital (leverage) ratios. Under these revolving credit facilities, indebtedness includes certain letters of credit and guarantees that are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As previously discussed, we are anticipating extensive capital needs for new generation, transmission and distribution facilities, and environmental compliance expenditures. Funding these capital needs could increase our leverage and present numerous risks including those addressed below. 37 In the event our leverage increases such that we approach the permitted ratios, our access to capital and additional liquidity could decrease. A limitation in our liquidity could have a material adverse impact on our business strategy and our ongoing financing needs. Additionally, a significant increase in our leverage or reductions in cash flow could adversely affect us by: § increasing the cost of future debt financing; § impacting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock at the current rate; § making it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing financial obligations; § increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; § requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt repayment, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; § limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; § requiring the issuance of additional equity; § placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt; and § causing a downgrade in our credit ratings. Any reduction in our credit ratings below investment grade would likely increase our financing costs, limit our access to additional capital and require posting of collateral, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the long-term target credit ratings for the Parent and the Utilities are above the minimum investment grade rating, we cannot provide certainty that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Such circumstances could include, among others, increases in leverage, adverse changes in other financial metrics, and adverse regulatory outcomes. Our debt indentures and credit agreements do not contain any “ratings triggers,” which would cause the acceleration of interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. Any downgrade could increase our borrowing costs, may adversely affect our access to capital and could result in the posting of additional collateral for derivatives in a liability position, which could negatively impact our financial results and business plans. Any reduction in our credit ratings below investment grade could also result in collateral posting requirements for certain of our natural gas transportation contracts. We note that the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities or those of PEC or PEF and that each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission the Utilities’ nuclear plants and under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected rates of return. Although a number of factors impact our funding requirements, a decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations for decommissioning the Utilities’ nuclear plants and under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefit plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. If we are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, our results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. Impairment of goodwill could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually and more frequently when indicators of impairment exist. All of our goodwill is allocated to our utility segments, and goodwill impairment tests are performed at the utility segment level. 38 We calculate the fair value of our utility segments by considering various factors, including valuation studies based primarily on income and market approaches. The calculations in both approaches are highly dependent on subjective factors such as management’s estimate of future cash flows, the selection of appropriate discount and growth rates from a marketplace participant’s perspective, and the selection of peer utilities and marketplace transactions for comparative valuation purposes. The estimated future cash flows are based on the utility segments’ business plans that assume the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, the timing of anticipated significant future capital investments, the anticipated earnings and returns related to such capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and renewal of certain contracts. These underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time. If these assumptions change or should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, the fair value of the utility segments could be significantly different in future periods, which could result in a future impairment charge to goodwill. Impairment of our recorded goodwill could result in volatility in our GAAP earnings and an increase in our leverage, which could trigger a downgrade of our credit ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and/or dilution through additional issuances of common stock. However, in the event of a goodwill impairment, we do not expect any such impairment to cause us to violate any financial or restrictive covenants contained in our indebtedness or other contractual arrangements. Our ability to fully utilize tax credits generated under Section 29/45K may be limited. This risk is not applicable to PEC and PEF. In accordance with the provisions of Section 29/45K, we have generated tax credits based on the content and quantity of synthetic fuels produced and sold to unrelated parties. This tax credit program expired at the end of 2007. The timing of the utilization of the tax credits is dependent upon our taxable income, which can be impacted by a number of factors. Additionally, in the normal course of business, our tax returns are audited by the IRS. If our tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be significant additional tax liabilities and associated interest for previously recognized tax credits, which could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. Although we are unaware of any currently proposed legislation or new IRS regulations or interpretations impacting previously recorded synthetic fuels tax credits, the value of credits generated could be unfavorably impacted by such legislation or IRS regulations and interpretations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 39 ITEM 