ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in the securities of the Progress Registrants involves risks, including the risks described below, that could affect the Progress Registrants and their businesses, as well as the energy industry generally. Most of the business information as well as the financial and operational data contained in our risk factors are updated periodically in the reports the Progress Registrants file with the SEC. Although the Progress Registrants have tried to discuss key risk factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and the Progress Registrants cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect their financial performance. Before purchasing securities of the Progress Registrants, you should carefully consider the following risks and the other information in this combined Annual Report, as well as the documents the Progress Registrants file with the SEC from time to time. Each of the risks described below could result in a decrease in the value of the securities of the Progress Registrants and your investment therein. Solely with respect to this ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” unless the context otherwise requires or the disclosure otherwise indicates, references to “we,” “us” or “our” are to each of the individual Progress Registrants and the matters discussed are generally applicable to each Progress Registrant. We are subject to fluid and complex government regulations that may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influence our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. We are subject to regulatory oversight with respect to, among other things, rates and service for electric energy sold at retail, retail service territory and issuances of securities. In addition, the Utilities are subject to federal regulation with respect to transmission and sales of wholesale power, accounting and certain other matters. We are also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate our business. We believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, we are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. On August 8, 2005, the EPACT was signed into law. This new federal law contains key provisions affecting the electric power industry. These provisions include tax changes for the utility industry, incentives for emissions reductions, federal insurance and incentives to build new nuclear power plants, repeal of PUHCA effective February 8, 2006, and certain protections for native retail load customers of utilities with an obligation to serve. It gives the FERC "backstop" transmission siting authority as well as increased utility merger oversight. The law also provides incentives and funding for clean coal technologies and initiatives to voluntarily reduce greenhouse gases and redesignates the Section 29 tax credit as a Section 45K general business credit. See Note 23D for additional information on the redesignation of the Section 29 tax credits. In addition, the law requires both the FERC and the DOE to study how utilities dispatch their resources to meet the needs of their customers. The results of these studies or any related actions taken by DOE could impact the Utilities’ system operations. The law requires the FERC to issue certain regulations implementing EPACT within 120 days of enactment. The FERC has commenced the rulemaking process and it is ongoing. We have reviewed the proposed rules and are participating in the public comment process. The FERC has issued a final rule regarding mergers and disposition of utility assets which requires FERC approval of: the sale or disposition of wholesale power contracts, or transmission or existing generation facilities with a value in excess of $10 million; the merger or consolidation of any or all of a public utility’s facilities with any other person; and the purchase or acquisition of any securities with a value in excess of $10 million of any other public utility. The FERC’s new rule implementing its new responsibilities resulting from the repeal of PUHCA provides that going forward, holding companies with an interest in a public utility must comply with the FERC’s document retention and accounting rules, maintain and make available to the FERC their books and records that are relevant to the public utility’s costs, and account for costs incurred by a public utility as a result of an affiliate transaction pursuant to the FERC’s policies. We cannot currently predict what impact issuance of the remaining final rules, or the interpretation and implementation of any new rules, will have on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 29 In response to rising fuel costs and the extensive hurricane-related power outages and costs experienced in the past two years in Florida, there is currently considerable discussion about energy issues at both the FPSC and Florida legislature. However, the outcome of these matters on PEF cannot be predicted. The FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the NCUC, the FPSC, and the SCPSC regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of these federal, state and local agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations, and which may impact or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to numerous environmental regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste production, handling and disposal. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant operations. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, authorizations and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related adjudication or litigation that may arise. In addition, we may be deemed a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. We cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all PRPs. There are proposals to address global climate change that would regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases. Any future regulatory actions taken to address global climate change represent a business risk to our operations. In 2005, we initiated a study to assess the impact of constraints on CO2 and other air emissions. We plan to issue this report by March 31, 2006. We have articulated principles that we believe should be incorporated into any global climate change policy. While we participate in the development of a national climate change policy framework, we will continue to actively engage others in our region to develop consensus-based solutions, as we did with the 2002 North Carolina Clean Smokestacks Act. Our compliance with environmental regulations requires significant capital expenditures that impact our financial condition. Under Florida law, these expenditures are eligible for recovery outside of base rates under an environmental cost recovery clause. There is no comparable treatment of these types of expenditures under North Carolina or South Carolina law. Clean air regulations require reduction of emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOx), SO2 and mercury from coal-fired power plants. We expect the future capital expenditures required to meet the emission limits, a portion of which are eligible for regulatory recovery, will be in excess of $1.0 billion each at PEC and PEF, respectively, through 2018, which corresponds to the latest emission reduction deadline. However, these costs could be higher than currently expected and have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The operation of emission control equipment to meet the emission limits will increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our coal-fired plants. Operation and maintenance costs will significantly increase due to the additional personnel, materials and general maintenance associated with the equipment. The emission control equipment will require the procurement of significant quantities of limestone and ammonia. Future increases in demand for these items from other utility companies operating the same equipment could increase the costs associated with operating the equipment. For additional discussion of environmental matters, see Note 22. 30 We cannot provide assurance that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations, which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Because weather conditions directly influence the demand for and cost of providing electricity, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends on our common stock can fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and can be negatively affected by changes in weather conditions and severe weather. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be affected by changing weather conditions. Weather conditions in our service territories, primarily North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities necessary to provide electricity to our customers and energy commodities that our nonregulated businesses sell. Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for power and market prices peak during the summer months. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter months. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of facilities we acquire and the terms of power sale contracts into which we enter. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are mild. While we believe that our North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida markets complement each other during normal seasonal fluctuations, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Furthermore, severe weather in these states, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, severe thunderstorms, snow and ice storms, can be destructive causing outages resulting in lost operating revenues, incurring property damage, downing power lines and requiring us to incur additional and unexpected expenses. Our ability to recover significant costs resulting from severe weather events is subject to regulatory oversight and the timing and amount of any such recovery is uncertain and may impact our financial conditions. We are subject to incurring significant costs resulting from severe weather. While PEF was granted regulatory approval in 2005 to recover significant storm costs incurred in 2004 for the four hurricanes that impacted our service territory, PEC’s and PEF’s storm cost recovery petitions may not always be granted. Under a regulatory order, PEF maintains a storm damage reserve account for major storms. Due to the significant costs incurred to recover from the 2004 hurricanes, PEF’s storm damage reserve accounts were largely depleted at December 31, 2005. PEF is currently considering alternatives for replenishing its storm damage reserve account such as issuing securitized bonds or otherwise seeking replenishment from retail ratepayers. Storm reserve costs attributable to wholesale customers may be amortized consistent with recovery of such amounts in wholesale rates, albeit at a specified amount per year resulting in an extended recovery period. PEC does not maintain a storm damage reserve account and does not have an on-going regulatory mechanism to recover storm costs. PEC has previously sought and received permission from the NCUC and the SCPSC to defer storm expenses and amortize them over five-year periods. PEC did not seek deferral of storm costs from the NCUC or SCPSC during 2005. If we cannot recover costs associated with future significant weather events in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover our actual costs, or if our storm reserve is inadequate, our financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our revenues, operating results and financial condition may fluctuate with the economy and its corresponding impact on our commercial and industrial customers as well as the demand and competitive state of the wholesale market. 31 Our business is impacted by fluctuations in the macroeconomy. For the year ended December 31, 2005, commercial and industrial customers represented approximately 42% and 33% of PEC’s and PEF’s billed electric revenues, respectively. As a result, changes in the macroeconomy can have negative impacts on our revenues. As our commercial and industrial customers experience economic hardships, our revenues can be negatively impacted. In recent years, in North and South Carolina, sales to industrial customers have been affected by downturns in the textile and chemical industries. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 19% and 9% of PEC’s and PEF’s billed electric revenues, respectively, were from wholesale sales. Wholesale revenues fluctuate with regional demand, fuel prices, and contracted capacity. Our wholesale profitability is dependent upon our ability to renew or replace expiring wholesale contracts on favorable terms and market conditions. In April 2004, the FERC issued two orders concerning utilities’ ability to sell wholesale electricity at market-based rates. In the first order, the FERC adopted two new interim screens for assessing potential generation market power of applicants for wholesale market-based rates, and described additional analyses and mitigation measures that could be presented if an applicant does not pass one of these interim screens. In July 2004, the FERC issued a second order that affirmed its April order and initiated a rulemaking to consider whether the FERC’s current methodology for determining whether a public utility should be allowed to sell wholesale electricity at market-based rates should be modified in any way. PEC and PEF do not have market-based rate authority for wholesale sales in peninsular Florida. Given the difficulty PEC believed it would experience in passing one of the interim screens, on September 6, 2005, PEC filed revisions to its market-based rate tariffs restricting PEC’s authority to sell power in the wholesale market at market-based rates to areas outside of PEC’s control area and peninsular Florida, and a new cost-based tariff for sales within PEC’s control area consistent with the FERC’s default cost-based rate methodologies for sales of one year or less. The FERC has accepted these revisions. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these changes, we do not anticipate that the current operations of the Utilities will be materially impacted by their inability to sell power at market-based rates in their respective control areas. Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs. Increased competition may also result from power industry consolidation. Increased competition could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of us and our utilities’ businesses. Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring efforts or from industry consolidation could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and consequently, on our results of operations and cash flows. Increased competition could result in increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of electricity. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy and gas service could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and our subsidiaries due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. Several significant mergers and acquisitions in the power industry were announced during 2005. We may experience increased competition in our nonregulated businesses as we compete with larger entities that may have more capital and financial resources and are able to leverage their economies of scale. Furthermore, if we decide to expand operations, we may encounter significant competition for future acquisition opportunities. Because we have not previously operated in a competitive retail environment, we cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. Due to several factors, however, there currently is little discussion of any movement toward deregulation in North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. We cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increased commodity prices may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to the effects of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, coal, fuel oil, electricity and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of our ownership of energy-related assets. Energy commodity price fluctuations impact PEC and PEF as well as our nonregulated businesses. While each state commission allows electric utilities to recover certain of these costs through various cost recovery clauses, there is the potential that a portion of these future costs could be deemed imprudent by the respective commissions. There is also a delay between the timing of when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered from the 32 ratepayers, which can adversely impact the cash flow of the Utilities. In addition, the under-recovery of fuel costs can also negatively impact our interest expense and leverage and rising fuel costs can also lead to higher electric utility rates which can negatively impact customer satisfaction. Our nonregulated energy businesses also purchase fuel commodities to fulfill their operating needs. Some of their wholesale power supply contracts are at fixed prices; consequently, higher commodity prices could result in decreased margins. Volatility in market prices for fuel and power may result from: § weather conditions; § seasonality; § power usage; § illiquid markets; § transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; § availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; § demand for energy commodities; § natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal production levels; § natural disasters, wars, terrorism, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and § federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Prices for SO2 emission allowance credits under the EPA’s emission trading program increased significantly during 2005. While SO2 allowances are eligible for annual recovery in PEF’s jurisdictions in Florida and PEC’s in South Carolina, no such annual recovery exists in North Carolina for PEC. Future increases in the price of SO2 allowances could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and PEC and consequently, on our results of operations and cash flows. As a holding company with no operations, the Parent is dependent on upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries, primarily our regulated utilities. As a result, our ability to meet our ongoing and future debt service and other financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to us. The Parent is a holding company and as such, has no operations of its own. The Parent’s ability to meet its financial obligations associated with the debt service obligations on $4.3 billion of holding company debt and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to the Parent. Prior to funding the Parent, its subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their respective debt service, preferred dividends and obligations to trade creditors. For the year ending December 31, 2005, the Utilities generated approximately 100 percent of consolidated cash from operations. Other sources of cash include the issuance of equity, short-term and long-term debt, asset sales and intercompany charges for capital costs. The rates that PEC and PEF may charge retail customers for electric power are subject to the authority of state regulators. Accordingly, our profit margins could be adversely affected if we do not control operating and capital investment costs. The NCUC, the SCPSC and the FPSC each exercises regulatory authority for review and approval of the retail electric power rates charged within its respective state. State regulators may not allow PEC and PEF to increase retail rates in the manner or to the extent requested by those subsidiaries. State regulators may also seek to reduce or freeze retail rates. Both PEC and PEF currently operate under rate freezes, in which rates can only be changed under certain circumstances. The costs incurred by PEC and PEF are generally not subject to being fixed or reduced by state regulators. There is a risk that the Utilities’ results of operations could be negatively impacted if the Utilities do not 33 manage their costs effectively. Our ability to maintain our profit margins depends upon stable demand for electricity and our efforts to manage our costs. There are inherent potential risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks that could result in fines or the shutdown of our nuclear units, which may present potential exposures in excess of our insurance coverage. PEC (four units; 3,485 MW) and PEF (one unit; 838 MW) own and operate five nuclear units that collectively represent approximately 4,323 MW, or 20%, of our regulated generation capacity for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate capital reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks. We maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that damages from an accident or business interruption at our nuclear units could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or to shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require us to make substantial capital expenditures at our nuclear plants. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our plants, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. From time to time, our facilities require licenses that need to be renewed or extended in order to continue operating. We do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses as required. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. Meeting the anticipated growth in our service territories requires a balanced solution that includes energy conservation and efficiency programs, development and deployment of new technologies and the potential need to increase our baseload generation within the next decade. Increasing our generation capacity could involve the construction of new generation facilities, including nuclear, for which we would have to comply with a significant number of federal and state regulations. There are uncertainties that we will be able to obtain needed licenses for construction of new generation facilities or successfully and timely complete their construction. In addition, there are uncertainties that the cost of new generation facilities and new programs will be recoverable through our base rates. We are currently evaluating our options for future baseload generation needs. Both nuclear and coal technologies are being explored in parallel paths. At this time, no definitive decision has been made regarding the construction of either nuclear or coal plants, or both. Additional capacity needs may be displaced by purchased power agreements, cogeneration contract extensions or other sources based on on-going economic and non-economic evaluations. If we decide to construct new generation facilities or expand existing facilities, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully and timely complete the projects. Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and/or the write-off of our investment in the project or improvement. Furthermore, we have no assurance that costs incurred to construct or expand generation facilities will be recoverable through our base rates. The decision to build a baseload power plant will be based on several factors including power market conditions, competing fuel prices, the regulatory environment, the status of permanent used nuclear fuel storage and the ability to obtain financing. The construction of a new baseload plant will require a significant amount of capital expenditures. We cannot provide certainty that adequate external financing will be available to support the construction. Additionally, any borrowings incurred to finance the construction expenditures may adversely impact our leverage and our results of operations. 34 The construction of a new nuclear power plant requires a number of conditions to be successful. The conditions include, but are not limited to: the continued operation of the industries’ existing nuclear fleet in a safe, reliable, and cost-effective manner; the use of standardized plants and an efficient licensing process; the ability to raise capital on reasonable terms; a viable program for managing spent nuclear fuel; and both public and policymaker support. We cannot provide certainty that these conditions will exist. We have announced that we are pursuing development of COL applications. Our announcement is not a commitment to build a nuclear plant. It is a necessary step to keep open the option of building a potential plant or plants. On January 23, 2006, we announced that PEC has selected the Harris site to evaluate for possible future nuclear expansion and we announced the selection of the Westinghouse Electric AP-1000 reactor design as the technology upon which to base the potential application submission. We currently expect to file the application for the COL for PEC’s Harris site in late September or early October 2007. We expect to file the application for the COL for an as-yet unspecified site in Florida in late 2007 or first quarter 2008. We plan to announce the selection of the Florida site in spring 2006. If we receive approval from the NRC, and if the decision to build is made, construction could begin as early as 2010, and a new plant could be online around 2016. We estimate that it will take approximately 36 months for the NRC to review the COL applications and grant approval. One consideration that would improve the economics of the nuclear option is whether the plant will be eligible for the federal production tax credits and risk insurance provided for by EPACT. EPACT provides for an annual tax credit of 1.8 cents/kilowatt hour (kWh) for nuclear facilities for the first eight years of operation. However, the credit is limited to the first 6,000 MW of new nuclear generation in the United States and has an annual cap of $125 million per unit. The credit allocation process among new nuclear plants has not been determined. There are other utilities that have announced plans to pursue new nuclear plants. There is no guarantee that any nuclear plant constructed by us would qualify for these additional incentives. Failure to qualify for these incentives could significantly impact the economics of building a nuclear facility. While we currently estimate that we will need to increase our baseload capacity, our assumptions regarding future growth and resulting power demand in our service territories may not be realized. If anticipated growth levels are not realized, we may increase our baseload capacity and have excess capacity. This excess capacity may exceed reserve margins established by the NCUC, SCPSC and FPSC to meet our obligation to serve retail customers and as a result, may not be recoverable in base rates. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of electric generating facilities by our subsidiaries and our ability to deliver electricity to our customers. Operating electric generating facilities and delivery systems involves many risks, including: § operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; § operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; § labor disputes; § fuel supply interruptions; and § catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, terrorist attacks, pandemic health events such as avian influenza or other similar occurrences. A decrease or elimination of revenues generated from our subsidiaries’ electric generating facilities and electricity delivery systems or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. Our inability to access capital may limit our ability to execute our business plan, or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth. We rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets, and lines of credit with commercial banks as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. If we are 35 not able to access these sources of liquidity, our ability to implement our strategy will be adversely affected. We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of our credit rating to below investment grade would increase our cost of borrowing and may adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Market disruptions create a unique uncertainty as they typically result from factors beyond our control. Such market disruptions could include: • an economic downturn; • the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; • capital market conditions generally; • allegations of corporate scandal at unrelated companies; • market prices for electricity and gas; • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or unrelated energy companies; or • the overall health of the utility industry. In addition, we believe that these market disruptions, unrelated to our business, could result in a ratings downgrade and, correspondingly, increase our cost of capital. Additional risks regarding the impact of a ratings downgrade are discussed below. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth. Increases in our leverage could adversely affect our competitive position, business planning and flexibility, financial condition, ability to service our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock, and ability to access capital on favorable terms. Our cash requirements arise primarily from the capital-intensive nature of our electric utilities. In addition to operating cash flows, we rely heavily on our commercial paper and long-term debt. At December 31, 2005, commercial paper and bank borrowings and long-term debt balances were as follows (in millions): Company Outstanding Commercial Paper Total Long-Term Debt, Net Progress Energy, unconsolidated (a) $ - $ 3,874 PEC 73 3,667 PEF 102 2,554 Other subsidiaries (b) - 351 Progress Energy, consolidated (c) $ 175 $ 10,446 (a) Represents solely the outstanding indebtedness of the Parent. (b) Includes the following subsidiaries: Florida Progress Funding Corporation ($270 million) and Progress Capital Holdings, Inc. ($81 million). (c) Net of current portion, which at December 31, 2005, was $513 million on a consolidated basis. At December 31, 2005, we classified $397 million, related to the retirement of $800 million of Progress Energy, Inc. 6.75% Senior Notes on March 1, 2006, as long-term debt. Settlement of this obligation is not expected to require the use of working capital in 2006 as we have the intent and ability to refinance this debt on a long-term basis. On January 13, 2006, Progress Energy, Inc. issued $300 million of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2016 and $100 million of Series A Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2010, receiving net proceeds of $397 million. These senior notes are unsecured. At December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate of three committed revolving credit agreements (RCAs) that supported our commercial paper programs totaling $2.030 billion. While our internal financial policy precludes us from issuing commercial paper in excess of our revolving credit lines, at December 31, 2005, we had $175 million reserved for outstanding commercial paper balance and a total of $150 million reserved for backing of letters of credit, leaving an additional $1.705 billion available for future borrowing under our revolving credit lines. At December 31, 2005, the actual amount of letters of credit issued was $33 million. 36 Our revolving credit lines impose various limitations that could impact our liquidity, such as defined maximum total debt to total capital (leverage) ratios and minimum coverage ratios. Under these revolving credit facilities, indebtedness includes certain letters of credit and guarantees which are not recorded on our consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2005, the required and actual ratios, pursuant to the terms of the credit agreements were as follows: Leverage Ratios Coverage Ratios Company Maximum Ratio Actual Ratio (a) Minimum Ratio Actual Ratio Progress Energy, Inc. 68% 60.7% 2.5:1 3.9:1 PEC 65% 55.2% n/a n/a PEF 65% 50.9% n/a n/a (a) Indebtedness as defined by the bank agreements includes certain letters of credit and guarantees that are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In the event our capital structure changes such that we approach the permitted ratios, our access to capital and additional liquidity could decrease. Furthermore, Progress Energy, Inc.’s RCA includes a provision under which lenders could refuse to advance funds to us in the event of a material adverse change in our financial condition. Loan draws for the payment of maturing commercial paper are excluded from this provision. A limitation in our liquidity could have a material adverse impact on our business strategy and our ongoing financing needs. Each of these credit agreements contains cross-default provisions for defaults of indebtedness in excess of the following thresholds: $50 million for Progress Energy, Inc. and $35 million each for PEC and PEF. Under these provisions, if the applicable borrower or certain subsidiaries of the borrower fail to pay various debt obligations in excess of their respective cross-default threshold, the lenders could accelerate payment of any outstanding borrowing and terminate their commitments to the credit facility. Progress Energy, Inc.’s cross-default provision applies only to Progress Energy, Inc. and its significant subsidiaries, as defined in the credit agreement (i.e., PEC, Florida Progress, PEF, Progress Capital Holdings, Inc. and PVI). PEC’s and PEF’s cross-default provisions only apply to defaults of indebtedness by PEC and its subsidiaries and PEF, respectively, not other affiliates of PEC and PEF. Additionally, certain of Progress Energy, Inc.’s long-term debt indentures contain cross-default provisions for defaults of indebtedness in excess of amounts ranging from $25 million to $50 million; these provisions only apply to other obligations of Progress Energy Inc., primarily commercial paper issued by the Parent, not its subsidiaries. In the event that these cross-default provisions are triggered, the debt holders could accelerate payment of approximately $4.3 billion in long-term debt. Any such acceleration would cause a material adverse change in the respective company’s financial condition. Certain agreements underlying our indebtedness also limit our ability to incur additional liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our floating rate debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: § increasing the cost of future debt financing; § impacting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock at the current rate; § making it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing financial obligations; § limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if we need it, for working capital, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; § increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; § requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; § limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; § placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and 37 § causing a downgrade in our credit ratings. 38 On February 11, 2005, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s) announced that it lowered the ratings of PEF, Progress Capital Holdings, Inc. and FPC Capital Trust I and changed their rating outlooks to stable from negative. Moody’s affirmed the ratings of Progress Energy and PEC. The rating outlooks continue to be stable at PEC and negative at Progress Energy. Moody’s stated that it took this action primarily due to declining cash flow coverages and rising leverage, higher operation and maintenance (O&M) costs, uncertainty regarding the timing of hurricane cost recovery, regulatory risks associated with the upcoming rate case in Florida and ongoing capital requirements to meet Florida’s growing demand. On November 22, 2005, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) announced that it revised its ratings outlook on Progress Energy from negative to stable, affirming the BBB corporate credit rating, and revising the short-term rating from A-3 to A-2. As a result of this revision, PEC and PEF’s outlooks and short-term ratings were also revised from negative to stable and A-3 to A-2, respectively. S&P stated that it took these actions primarily due to the resolution of several regulatory issues in Florida and expectations of increased likelihood that our financial performance will improve over the next two years. S&P also indicated that it has improved its business position for PEF to a ‘4’ (strong). The business position for PEC remains a ‘5’ (satisfactory) and the overall business position for Progress Energy remains at a ‘6’ (satisfactory). S&P ranks business position on a scale of ‘1’ (excellent) to ‘10’ (vulnerable). On December 6, 2005, S&P lowered the BBB rating on PEC and PEF’s senior unsecured notes to BBB-. The revision reflects the recognition that a significant amount of the Utilities’ assets (more than 30% of PEC's assets and 35% of PEF's assets) collateralize first-priority debt. The changes by S&P and Moody’s did not trigger any debt or guarantee collateral requirements, nor did they have any material impact on the overall liquidity of Progress Energy or any of its affiliates. Fitch Ratings took no actions on Progress Energy’s, PEC’s or PEF’s ratings in 2005. To date, Progress Energy’s, PEC’s and PEF’s access to the commercial paper markets has not been materially impacted by the rating agencies’ actions. Our debt indentures and credit agreements do not contain any “ratings triggers,” which would cause the acceleration of interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. If S&P lowers Progress Energy’s senior unsecured rating one ratings category to BB+ from its current rating, it would be a non-investment grade rating. The effect of a non-investment grade rating would primarily be increased borrowing costs. While our long-term target credit ratings for each entity are above the minimum investment grade ranking, we cannot provide certainty that any of Progress Energy’s current ratings, or those of PEC and PEF, will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade could increase our borrowing costs and may adversely affect our access to capital, which could negatively impact our financial results. We note that the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities or those of PEC or PEF and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. As a part of normal business, we enter into various agreements providing future financial or performance assurances to third parties. These agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditworthiness otherwise attributed to Progress Energy or our subsidiaries on a stand-alone basis, thereby facilitating the extension of sufficient credit to accomplish the subsidiaries’ intended commercial purposes. Our guarantees include performance obligations under power supply agreements, tolling agreements, transmission agreements, gas agreements, fuel procurement agreements and trading operations. Our guarantees also include standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees in support of nuclear decommissioning. At December 31, 2005, we have issued $1.78 billion of guarantees for future financial or performance assurance. We do not believe conditions are likely for significant performance under the guarantees of performance issued by or on behalf of affiliates. 39 The majority of contracts supported by the guarantees contain provisions that trigger guarantee obligations based on downgrade events to below investment grade (below BBB- or Baa3) by S&P or Moody’s, ratings triggers, monthly netting of exposure and/or payments and offset provisions in the event of a default. At December 31, 2005, no guarantee obligations had been triggered. If the guarantee obligations were triggered, the maximum amount of liquidity requirements to support ongoing operations within a 90-day period, associated with guarantees for Progress Energy’s nonregulated portfolio and power supply agreements was approximately $540 million. While we believe that we would be able to meet this obligation with cash or letters of credit, if we cannot, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. We use derivatives, including futures, forwards and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In the future, we could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities. Additionally, we are exposed to risk that our counterparties will not be able to perform their obligations. Should our counterparties fail to perform, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such event, we might incur losses in addition to the amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Our results of operations may be materially affected if the value of the Section 29/45K tax credits is reduced due to the high price of oil. This risk is not applicable to PEC and PEF. Recent unprecedented and unanticipated increases in the price of oil could limit the amount of Section 29/45K tax credits or eliminate them altogether. Section 29 provides that if the average wellhead price per barrel for unregulated domestic crude oil for the year (the Annual Average Price) exceeds a certain threshold value (the Threshold Price), the amount of Section 29/45K tax credits are reduced for that year. Also, if the Annual Average Price increases high enough (the Phase-out Price), the Section 29/45K tax credits are eliminated for that year. The Threshold Price and the Phase-out Price are adjusted annually for inflation. Although data for 2005 is not yet available, we do not expect the amount of our 2005 Section 29 tax credits to be adversely affected by crude oil prices. We cannot predict with any certainty the Annual Average Price for 2006 or beyond. Therefore, we cannot predict whether the price of oil will have a material effect on our synthetic fuel business after 2005. However, if during 2006 or 2007, oil prices remain at historically high levels or increase, our synthetic fuel business may be adversely affected for those years and, depending on the magnitude of such increases in oil prices, the adverse affect for those years could be material and could have an impact on our synthetic fuel production plans which, in turn, may have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 23D for additional information on the potential impact of crude oil prices on our synthetic fuel production. In addition, there is proposed federal legislation that would establish both the 2006 Annual Average Price and 2006 Phase-out Price based on the previous calendar year. If the proposed legislation becomes law, we do not anticipate that we will reach the minimum phase-out levels in 2006. However, we cannot predict what impact, if any, this proposed legislation would have on the value of the tax credits in 2007. We cannot provide any certainty that the proposed federal legislation will be enacted into law. We are currently producing synthetic fuel at a reduced level pending resolution of the proposed legislation. If the legislation is not enacted into law as currently written or oil prices remain at levels high enough to cause a phase-out of 2006 Section 29/45K tax credits or eliminate the tax credits completely, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition associated with the operating losses incurred from the amount of synthetic fuel produced during 2006. A decrease in future synthetic fuel production and cash flows could trigger impairment evaluations of our synthetic fuel and other related operating long-lived assets. Such evaluations could result in an impairment charge for these assets which have total carrying values of approximately $111 million at December 31, 2005. The majority of these assets will be fully depreciated by the end of 2007, the scheduled end of the Section 29/45K tax credit program. 40 There are risks involved with the operation of our nonregulated plants, including dependence on third parties and related counter-party risks, and a lack of operating history, all of which may make our nonregulated generation and overall operations less profitable and more unstable. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 3,100 MW of nonregulated generation in commercial operation. The operation of nonregulated generation facilities is subject to many risks, including those listed below. During the execution of our nonregulated generation strategy, these risks may intensify. These risks include: · We may enter into or otherwise acquire long-term contracts that take effect at a future date based upon our future expected nonregulated generation capacity. If our generating facilities do not operate as expected, we may not be able to meet our obligations under any such long-term contracts and may have to purchase power in the spot market at then-prevailing prices. If we are unable to secure favorable pricing in the spot market, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We may also become liable under any related performance guarantees then in existence. · Our nonregulated generation facilities depend on third parties through power purchase agreements, fuel supply and transportation agreements and transmission grid connection agreements. If such third parties breach their obligations to us, our revenues, financial condition, cash flow and ability to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding debts may be impaired. Any material breach by any of these parties of their obligations under the project contracts could adversely affect our cash flows. · We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas that we sell to the wholesale market. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered. Although the FERC has issued regulations designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electric power as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets. · Agreements with our counterparties frequently will include the right to terminate and/or withhold payments or performance under the contracts if specific events occur. If a project contract were to be terminated due to nonperformance by us or by the other party to the contract, our ability to enter into a substitute agreement having substantially equivalent terms and conditions is uncertain. · Operation of our facilities could be affected by many factors, including start-up problems, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, failure to operate at design specifications, labor disputes, changes in law, failure to obtain necessary permits or to meet permit conditions, government exercise of eminent domain power or similar events and catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes and droughts. · Our nonregulated generation facilities seek to enter into long-term power purchase agreements to sell all or a portion of their generating capacity. CCO currently owns six electricity generation facilities with approximately 3,100 MW of generation capacity, and it has contractual rights to an additional 2,500 MW of generation capacity from mixed fuel generation facilities through its agreements with 16 Georgia EMCs. CCO has contracts for its combined production capacity of approximately 86% for 2006, 81% for 2007 and 84% for 2008. The increased cooperative load in Georgia significantly increased CCO’s revenue and cost of sales from 2004 to 2005 at lower margins, as more fully discussed below. Following the expiration or early termination of our power purchase agreements, or to the extent we cannot otherwise secure contracts for our current and future generation capacity, our facilities will generally become merchant facilities. Our merchant facilities may not be able to find adequate purchasers, attain favorable pricing, or otherwise compete effectively in the wholesale market. Additionally, numerous legal and regulatory limitations restrict our ability to operate a facility on a wholesale basis. 41 Our energy marketing and trading operations are subject to risks that could reduce our revenues and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition; some of these risks, such as weather-related risks, are beyond our control. Volatile commodity prices could reduce our margins. Significant revenue reductions or cost increases could trigger future impairment evaluations and potential impairment charges. We actively seek to manage the market risk inherent in our energy marketing operations. We employ best practices risk management monitoring and control techniques to manage the risks inherent in the business. Nonetheless, adverse changes in energy and fuel prices may result in losses in our earnings or cash flows and adversely affect our financial position. Our marketing and risk management procedures do not completely eliminate risk. As a result, our operating results and financial position are sensitive to the market risk factors discussed below. Our fleet of nonregulated power plants sells energy into the spot market, other competitive power markets or on a longer-term contractual basis. We may also enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas and coal as part of our power marketing and energy trading operations. Our business may also include entering into tolling contracts, long-term contracts that supply customers’ full electric requirements or other contractual structures. Over the past two years, we have entered into full requirements power contracts to supply the total power requirement of several electric cooperatives. These contracts do not provide a guaranteed rate of return on our capital investments through mandated rates. While these contracts are partially hedged through fixed price power and gas purchases, our revenues and results of operations from these contracts still depend to some degree upon prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and surrounding competitive markets. These market prices can fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Future adverse changes in market conditions or changes in business conditions could trigger future impairment evaluations of goodwill, long-lived assets or other assets, which could result in impairment charges. In particular, we believe that over the past few years, the wholesale energy market in the southeastern United States, particularly Georgia, has been overbuilt and, accordingly, believe that the supply of peaking and mid-market generation exceeds demand. While recent market activity indicates that supply and demand are slowly coming closer to equilibrium, we believe that spot prices as well as contractual pricing will provide us with a reduced rate of return on our capital investment in our nonregulated plants and our revenues and results of operations from this market will be lower than originally expected until demand catches up with supply. We have no assurance that the current over-supply of wholesale power will be available to meet the Utilities’ anticipated future need for additional baseload generation. We have entered into wholesale power agreements with electric cooperatives in Georgia. Under these full-requirements supply contracts, we receive a fixed price for the power supplied to the cooperatives. The cooperative load is dependent on the weather and economy of its service area. We use a combination of callable resources from the cooperatives, open market purchases and our own generating assets to serve this load. The risks in serving full-requirements supply contracts at a fixed price include both the variability in commodity prices and the volatility of the cooperative energy demand. While we strive to mitigate the risks associated with these contracts though various strategies, we cannot provide certainty that our risk management techniques will be effective. Furthermore, the FERC, which has jurisdiction over wholesale power rates, as well as independent system operators that oversee some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets. As discussed previously, fuel prices also may be volatile, and the price we can obtain for power sales may not change at the same rate as our fuel costs changes. These factors could reduce our margins and therefore diminish our revenues and results of operations. We actively manage the market risk inherent in our energy marketing operations. Nonetheless, adverse changes in energy and fuel prices may result in losses in our earnings or cash flows and adversely affect our balance sheet. Our marketing and risk management procedures may not work as planned. As a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact that our marketing, trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. In addition, to the extent that we do not cover the entire exposure of our assets or our positions to market price volatility, or our hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could cause our sales and net income to be volatile. 42 In accordance with accounting standards for goodwill and long-lived assets, we have continued to monitor the carrying value of our goodwill and long-lived assets of our CCO operations. Our analyses have continued to support the carrying value of the $64 million of goodwill and the $1.4 billion of long-lived and intangible assets at December 31, 2005. However, as part of our evaluation of certain business opportunities in the first quarter of 2006, we performed an interim impairment test for the $64 million of goodwill, which indicated the fair value of our reporting unit consisting of our Effingham, Monroe, Walton and Washington nonregulated generation plants (Georgia Region) was less than its carrying value. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142), we are currently performing the second step of the impairment test, which compares the implied fair value of the goodwill with the recorded goodwill. While the results of the second step of the impairment test are currently unknown, the effects could range from no change to the recorded goodwill value to a potential write-off of $64 million. Future adverse changes in market conditions or changes in business conditions, including the manner in which the long-lived assets are deployed, could require future impairment evaluations of these or other assets, which could result in an impairment charge. Our nonregulated businesses are involved in operations that are subject to significant operational and financial risks that may reduce our revenues and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to operational risk resulting from our natural gas drilling, coal mining, terminal and barge and fuel delivery operations. Our coal mining and natural gas drilling operations are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay deliveries or increase the cost of mining or drilling at particular locations for varying lengths of time. Such conditions include unexpected maintenance problems, key equipment failures and variations in geologic conditions. The states in which we operate coal mines have state programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. Financial risks include our exposure to commodity prices, primarily fuel prices. We actively manage the operational and financial risks associated with these businesses. Nonetheless, adverse changes in fuel prices and operational issues beyond our control may result in losses in our earnings or cash flows and adversely affect our balance sheet. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 43 ITEM 