Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating Web.com and our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties set forth below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the risks discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. In the future, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had $700.9 million of outstanding long-term debt. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors. If our operations do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may need to seek additional capital to make these payments or undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets or reducing or delaying capital investments and acquisitions. We cannot assure you that such additional capital or alternative financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain additional capital or alternative financing on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. One of our business strategies is to acquire complementary services, technologies or businesses and we have a history of such acquisitions. Under applicable accounting, we allocate the total purchase price of a particular acquisition to an acquired company’s net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but are inherently uncertain. Going forward, the following factors, among others, could result in material charges that would adversely affect our financial results: • impairment of goodwill; • charges for the amortization of identifiable intangible assets and for stock-based compensation; • accrual of newly identified pre-merger contingent liabilities that are identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and • charges to income to eliminate certain of our pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Additional costs may include costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in our performance may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Due to our evolving business model, and the unpredictability of our evolving industry, our operating results are difficult to predict. We expect to experience fluctuations in our operating and financial results due to a number of factors, such as: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ requirements; • the renewal rates and renewal terms for our services; • changes in our pricing policies; • the introduction of new services and products by us or our competitors; • our ability to hire, train and retain members of our sales force; • the rate of expansion and effectiveness of our sales force; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; • general economic conditions; • additional investment in our services or operations; • ability to successfully identify acquisition targets and integrate acquired businesses and technologies; and • our success in maintaining and adding strategic marketing relationships. These factors and others all tend to make the timing and amount of our revenue unpredictable and may lead to greater period-to-period fluctuations in revenue than we have experienced historically. Additionally, in light of current global and U.S. economic conditions, we believe that our quarterly revenue and results of operations are likely to vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. The results of one quarter may not be relied on as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or technologies, which may result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consume resources that may be necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire complementary services, technologies or businesses. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; and • incur debt that could have terms unfavorable to us or that we might be unable to repay. Business acquisitions also involve the risk of unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including securing the services of key employees. Incurring unknown liabilities or the failure to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could seriously harm our business. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS We rely heavily on the reliability, security, and performance of our internally developed systems and operations, and any difficulties in maintaining these systems may result in service interruptions, decreased customer service, or increased expenditures. The software and workflow processes that underlie our ability to deliver our web services and products have been developed primarily by our own employees. The reliability and continuous availability of these internal systems are critical to our business, and any interruptions that result in our inability to timely deliver our web services or products, or that materially impact the efficiency or cost with which we provide these web services and products, would harm our reputation, profitability, and ability to conduct business. In addition, many of the software systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products, either of which could entail considerable effort and expense. If we fail to develop and execute reliable policies, procedures, and tools to operate our infrastructure, we could face a substantial decrease in workflow efficiency and increased costs, as well as a decline in our revenue. We have a risk of system and internet failures, which could harm our reputation, cause our customers to seek reimbursement for services paid for and not received, and cause our customers to seek another provider for services. We must be able to operate the systems that manage our network around the clock without interruption. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our network infrastructure, equipment, and customer files against damage from human error, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Our networks are currently subject to various points of failure. For example, a problem with one of our routers (devices that move information from one computer network to another) or switches could cause an interruption in the services that we provide to some or all of our customers. In the past, we have experienced periodic interruptions in service. We have also experienced, and in the future we may again experience, delays or interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of internet users, current and former employees, or others. Any future interruptions could: • cause customers or end users to seek damages for losses incurred; • require us to replace existing equipment or add redundant facilities; • damage our reputation for reliable service; • cause existing customers to cancel their contracts; or • make it more difficult for us to attract new customers. If our security measures are breached, our services may be perceived as not being secure, and our business and reputation could suffer. Our web services involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ proprietary information. It is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Although we employ data encryption processes, an intrusion detection system, and other internal control procedures to assure the security of our customers’ data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. We have expended significant time and money on the security of our facilities and infrastructure. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, and as a result our customers’ data becomes available to unauthorized parties, we could incur liability and our reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS If internet usage does not grow or if the internet does not continue to be the standard for ecommerce, our business may suffer. Our success depends upon the continued development and acceptance of the internet as a widely used medium for ecommerce and communication. Rapid growth in the uses of, and interest in, the internet is a relatively recent phenomenon and its continued growth cannot be assured. A number of factors could prevent continued growth, development and acceptance, including: • the unwillingness of companies and consumers to shift their purchasing from traditional vendors to online vendors; • the internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it, and its performance and reliability may decline as usage grows; • security and authentication issues may create concerns with respect to the transmission over the internet of confidential information; and • privacy concerns, including those related to the ability of websites to gather user information without the user’s knowledge or consent, may impact consumers’ willingness to interact online. Any of these issues could slow the growth of the internet, which could limit our growth and revenues. If we cannot adapt to technological advances, our web services and products may become obsolete and our ability to compete would be impaired. Changes in our industry occur very rapidly, including changes in the way the internet operates or is used by SMBs and their customers. As a result, our web services and products could become obsolete quickly. The introduction of competing products employing new technologies and the evolution of new industry standards could render our existing products or services obsolete and unmarketable. To be successful, our web services and products must keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards, address the ever-changing and increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers, and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop new web services or products, or enhancements to our web services or products, on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if new web services or products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business would be seriously harmed. Providing web services and products to SMBs designed to allow them to internet-enable their businesses is a new and emerging market; if this market fails to develop, we will not be able to grow our business. Our success depends on a significant number of SMB outsourcing website design, hosting, and management as well as adopting other online business solutions. The market for our web services and products is relatively new and untested. Custom website development has been the predominant method of internet enablement, and SMBs may be slow to adopt our template-based web services and products. Further, if SMBs determine that having an online presence is not giving their businesses an advantage; they would be less likely to purchase our web services and products. If the market for our web services and products fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if our web services and products fail to achieve widespread customer acceptance, our business would be seriously harmed. Our failure to build brand awareness quickly could compromise our ability to compete and to grow our business. As a result of the highly competitive nature of our market, and the likelihood that we may face competition from new entrants with well established brands, we believe our own brand name recognition and reputation are important. If we do not continue to build brand awareness quickly, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to companies whose brands are more recognizable than ours. A portion of our web services are sold on a month-to-month basis, and if our customers are unable or choose not to subscribe to our web services, our revenue may decrease. A portion of our web service offerings are sold pursuant to month-to-month subscription agreements and our customers generally can cancel their subscriptions to our web services at any time with little or no penalty. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS While we cannot determine with certainty why our subscription renewal rates are not higher, we believe there are a variety of factors, which have in the past led, and may in the future lead, to a decline in our subscription renewal rates. These factors include the cessation of our customers’ businesses, the overall economic environment in the United States and its impact on SMBs, the services and prices offered by us and our competitors, and the evolving use of the internet by SMBs. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers demand renewal terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decrease, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We were not profitable for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and we may not become or stay profitable in the future. Although we generated net income for the year ended December 31, 2009, we were not profitable for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and may not be profitable in future years. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $292.5 million. We expect that our expenses relating to the sale and marketing of our web services, technology improvements and general and administrative functions, as well as the costs of operating and maintaining our technology infrastructure, will increase in the future. Accordingly, we will need to increase our revenue to be able to again achieve and, if achieved, to later maintain profitability. We may not be able to reduce in a timely manner or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our operating results and our level of profitability. Weakened global economic conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions, which may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Global financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or our industry may harm us. The United States and other key international economies have been impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These conditions affect spending and could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our service, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, or affect renewal rates, all of which could harm our operating results. Our existing and target customers are SMBs. We believe these businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. For instance, a financial crisis affecting the banking system or financial markets or the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business would result in a tightening in the credit markets, which could limit our customers’ access to credit. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our web services and products. If SMBs experience economic hardship, or if they behave more conservatively in light of the general economic environment, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources to develop their online presences, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our services and products and could cause our revenue to decline. If we fail to comply with the established rules of credit card associations, we will face the prospect of financial penalties and could lose our ability to accept credit card payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial majority of our revenue originates from online credit card transactions. For example, under current credit card industry practices, we are liable for fraudulent and disputed credit card transactions because we do not obtain the cardholder’s signature at the time of the transaction, even though the financial institution issuing the credit card may have authorized the transaction. Under credit card association rules, penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the association. Any such potential penalties would be imposed on our credit card processor by the association. Under our contract with our processor, we are required to reimburse our processor for such penalties. As of December 31, 2012, our compliance with the established rules is within the guidelines established by the credit card associations. However, we face the risk that one or more credit card associations may, at any time, assess penalties against us or terminate our ability to accept credit card payments from customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS The failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Web.com and an acquired company, if any, in the future within the expected timeframe would adversely affect the combined company’s future results. The success of any future acquisition will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits, including annual net operating synergies, from combining the businesses of Web.com and the acquired company. To realize these anticipated benefits, the combined company must successfully integrate the businesses of Web.com and an acquired company. This integration will be complex and time consuming. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company’s failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: • lost sales and customers as a result of customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; • complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; • integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality services and products; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisition; and • performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the acquisition and integrating the companies’ operations. Integrating Web.com and an acquired company may divert management’s attention away from the combined company’s operations. Successful integration of Web.com’s and an acquired company’s operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on the combined company’s management and internal resources. Challenges of integration include the combined company’s ability to incorporate acquired products and business technology into its existing product offerings, and its ability to sell the acquired products through Web.com’s existing or acquired sales channels. Web.com may also experience difficulty in effectively integrating the different cultures and practices of the acquired company, as well as in assimilating its’ broad and geographically dispersed personnel. Further, the difficulties of integrating the acquired company could disrupt the combined company’s ongoing business, distract its management focus from other opportunities and challenges, and increase the combined company’s expenses and working capital requirements. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm the combined company’s business, financial condition and operating results. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition. Acquisitions involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. We expect that acquisitions may result in financial and operational benefits, including increased revenue, cost savings and other financial and operating benefits. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to realize increased revenue, cost savings or other benefits from any acquisition, or, to the extent such benefits are realized, that they are realized timely or to the same degree as we anticipated. Integration may also be difficult, unpredictable, and subject to delay because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on product roadmaps or other strategic matters. We may integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance, many of which may be dissimilar. Difficulties associated with integrating an acquisition’s service and product offering into ours, or with integrating an acquisition’s operations into ours, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company and the market price of our common stock. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business depends in part on our ability to continue to provide value-added web services and products, many of which we provide through agreements with third parties, and our business will be harmed if we are unable to provide these web services and products in a cost-effective manner. A key element of our strategy is to combine a variety of functionalities in our web service offerings to provide our customers with comprehensive solutions to their online presence needs, such as internet search optimization, local yellow pages listings, and eCommerce capability. We provide many of these services through arrangements with third parties, and our continued ability to obtain and provide these services at a low cost is central to the success of our business. For example, we currently have agreements with several service providers that enable us to provide, at a low cost, internet yellow pages advertising. However, these agreements may be terminated on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, and without penalty. If any of these third parties were to terminate their relationships with us, or to modify the economic terms of these arrangements, we could lose our ability to provide these services at a cost-effective price to our customers, which could cause our revenue to decline or our costs to increase. Our data centers are maintained by third parties. A disruption in the ability of one of these service providers to provide service to us could cause a disruption in service to our customers. A substantial portion of the network services and computer servers we utilize in the provision of services to customers are housed in data centers owned by other service providers. In particular, a significant number of our servers are housed in data centers in Atlanta, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida; and Sterling, Virginia. We obtain internet connectivity for those servers, and for the customers who rely on those servers, in part through direct arrangements with network service providers and in part indirectly through the owners of those data centers. We also utilize other third-party data centers in other locations. In the future, we may house other servers and hardware items in facilities owned or operated by other service providers. A disruption in the ability of one of these service providers to provide service to us could cause a disruption in service to our customers. A service provider could be disrupted in its operations through a number of contingencies, including unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions, electrical disruptions, and other extreme conditions. Although we believe we have taken adequate steps to protect our business through contractual arrangements with our service providers, we cannot eliminate the risk of a disruption in service resulting from the accidental or intentional disruption in service by a service provider. Any significant disruption could cause significant harm to us, including a significant loss of customers. In addition, a service provider could raise its prices or otherwise change its terms and conditions in a way that adversely affects our ability to support our customers or could result in a decrease in our financial performance. We face intense and growing competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be seriously harmed. The market for our web services and products is highly competitive and is characterized by relatively low barriers to entry. Our competitors vary in terms of their size and what services they offer. We encounter competition from a wide variety of company types, including: • website design and development service and software companies; • internet service providers and application service providers; • internet search engine providers; • local business directory providers; • website domain name providers and hosting companies; and • eCommerce platform and service providers. In addition, due to relatively low barriers to entry in our industry, we expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future from both established and emerging companies. Increased competition may result in reduced gross margins, the loss of market share, or other changes which could seriously harm our business. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and formations of alliances among industry participants. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, greater brand recognition and, we believe, a larger installed base of customers. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services and products than we can. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our revenue could increase less than anticipated or decline and our business could be harmed. Our business could be materially harmed if the administration and operation of the internet no longer rely upon the existing domain system. The domain registration industry continues to develop and adapt to changing technology. This development may include changes in the administration or operation of the internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing internet traffic without the use of the existing domain system. The widespread acceptance of any alternative systems could eliminate the need to register a domain to establish an online presence and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be affected by new governmental regulations regarding the internet To date, government regulations have not materially restricted use of the internet in most parts of the world. The legal and regulatory environment pertaining to the internet, however, is uncertain and may change. New laws may be passed, existing but previously inapplicable laws may be deemed to apply to the internet, or existing legal safe harbors may be narrowed, both by U.S. federal or state governments and by governments of foreign jurisdictions. These changes could affect: • the liability of online resellers for actions by customers, including fraud, illegal content, spam, phishing, libel and defamation, infringement of third-party intellectual property and other abusive conduct; • other claims based on the nature and content of internet materials; • user privacy and security issues; • consumer protection; • sales and other taxes, including the value-added tax of the European Union member states; • characteristics and quality of services; and • cross-border ecommerce. The adoption of any new laws or regulations, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations to the internet, could hinder growth in use of the internet and online services generally, and decrease acceptance of the internet and online services as a means of communications, ecommerce and advertising. In addition, such changes in laws could increase our costs of doing business, subject our business to increased liability or prevent us from delivering our services over the internet, thereby harming our business and results of operations. We could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. We may become involved in claims, such as lawsuits and investigations, involving but not limited to general business, patents, or employee matters. Such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. In addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or cost-effectively, which may cause us to lose market share or otherwise harm our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect and preserve the proprietary aspects of our technology, web services, and products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market services and products similar to those offered by us, which could decrease demand for our web services and products. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our proprietary assets without our authorization. While we do rely on patents acquired from the Web.com acquisition, we do not currently rely on patents to protect all of our core intellectual property. To protect, control access to, and limit distribution of our intellectual property, we generally enter into confidentiality and proprietary inventions agreements with our employees, and confidentiality or license agreements with consultants, third-party developers, and customers. We also rely on copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be inadequate. Enforcing our rights to our technology could be costly, time-consuming and distracting. Additionally, others may develop non-infringing technologies that are similar or superior to ours. Any significant failure or inability to adequately protect our proprietary assets will harm our business and reduce our ability to compete. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new services and products or enhance our existing web services, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. The global financial crisis, which included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit and substantial reductions or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, may make it difficult for us to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired. The Company’s ability to use its net operating loss (NOL) carry forwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited if taxable income does not reach a sufficient level, or as a result of a change in control which could limit available NOLs. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has Federal net operating loss carry forwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $300.4 million (excluding $30.8 million related to excess tax benefits for stock-based compensation tax deductions in excess of book compensation which will be credited to additional paid-in capital when such deductions reduce taxes payable, as determined on a “with-and-without” basis) available to offset future taxable income which expire between 2020 and 2032. The NOLs are subject to various limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Accordingly, the Company estimates that at least $246.8 million of the NOLs will be available during the carry forward period based on our existing Section 382 limitations. As of December 31, 2012, our valuation allowance includes $117.4 million of these NOLs as it is not more likely than not that this portion of the NOLs will be realized based on the expected reversals of our existing deferred tax liabilities and current Section 382 limits. Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income generated that may be offset with pre-ownership change NOLs of the corporation that experiences an ownership change. The limitation imposed by Section 382 of the Code for any post-ownership change year generally would be determined by multiplying the value of such corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by built-in gains or reduced by built-in losses in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. If the Company experiences any future “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code, the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs could be further limited depending on several factors, including but not limited to, the amount of taxable income generated during any post-ownership change year and the annual limitation discussed above. Similar results could apply to our state NOLs because the states in which we operate generally follow Section 382. Additionally, the Company’s ability to use its NOLs will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. The NOLs may expire before the Company can generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the NOLs. Any growth could strain our resources and our business may suffer if we fail to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth. Growth in our business may place a strain on our management, administrative, and sales and marketing infrastructure. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, our business could be disrupted, and our ability to operate our business profitably could suffer. Growth in our employee base may be required to expand our customer base and to continue to develop and enhance our web service and product offerings. To manage growth of our operations and personnel, we would need to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. This would require additional personnel and capital investments, which would increase our cost base. The growth in our fixed cost base may make it more difficult for us to reduce expenses in the short term to offset any shortfalls in revenue. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results, which could cause our stock price to fall or result in our stock being delisted. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports. We will need to devote significant resources and time to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley with respect to internal control over financial reporting. In addition, Section 404 under Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we assess and our auditors attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirement for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2013 will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our company and our operating subsidiaries. We expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex as we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. To effectively manage this complexity, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and jeopardize our listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, either of which would harm our stock price. We are dependent on our executive officers, and the loss of any key member of this team may compromise our ability to successfully manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. Our future performance depends largely on the continuing service of our executive officers and senior management team, especially that of David Brown, our Chief Executive Officer. Our executives are not contractually obligated to remain employed by us. Accordingly, any of our key employees could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty and may go to work for one or more of our competitors after the expiration of their non-compete period. The loss of one or more of our executive officers could make it more difficult for us to pursue our business goals and could seriously harm our business. Our growth will be adversely affected if we cannot continue to successfully retain, hire, train, and manage our key employees, particularly in the telesales and customer service areas. Our ability to successfully pursue our growth strategy will depend on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees across our business. We have many key employees throughout our organization that do not have non-competition agreements and may leave to work for a competitor at any time. In particular, 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS we are substantially dependent on our telesales and customer service employees to obtain and service new customers. Competition for such personnel and others can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, integrate, or retain additional highly qualified personnel in the future. In addition, our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue will depend, in large part, on our success in effectively training sufficient personnel in these two areas. New hires require significant training and in some cases may take several months before they achieve full productivity, if they ever do. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we have our facilities. If we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, or hiring, training and integrating new employees, or if our current or future employees perform poorly, growth in the sales of our services and products may not materialize and our business will suffer. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a decrease in earnings. Current accounting rules require that goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives may not be amortized, but instead must be tested for impairment at least annually. These rules also require that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We have substantial goodwill and other intangible assets, and we would be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. Any impairment charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or under Delaware law might discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed for cause and only with the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders; • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS 