ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. We operate in a market environment that is difficult to predict and that involves significant risks and uncertainties, many of which will be beyond our control. Refer also to “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS It is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects because we have a limited operating history and a rapidly evolving business. We were incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in July 1999. Our limited operating history and rapidly evolving business make it difficult to evaluate our prospects or to accurately predict our future revenue or results of operations. Our revenue and income potential are unproven, and our business model is constantly and rapidly evolving. In particular, the Internet is constantly changing and we may need to modify our business model to adapt to these changes. The music industry is under extreme pressure to reduce costs. The major music labels are suffering from significant sales and profit deterioration and wherever possible are reducing expenditures. This has negatively impacted the amount of business that MediaDefender has conducted with these customers and this trend is expected to continue. Our inability to retain and, as necessary, strengthen our executive management team would be detrimental to the success of our business. We rely heavily on a small group of senior executives and retaining their services is important to our future success. As we continue to grow the business, the executive management team will face increasing challenges and the possible need to supplement or expand the existing team to enable us to put in place a necessary succession plan. Any failures in this regard could impact, among other factors, our revenues, growth and profitability. We have substantially reduced operating cash as a result of the debt restructuring, (see Recent Developments). To obtain sufficient cash resources to affect the payment to the Senior Note holders and the conversion of the balance of the Senior Debt and the Subordinated Notes, we incurred approximately $1.250 million in principal amount of indebtedness. We utilized substantial amounts of the Company’s operating cash to accomplish the debt restructuring and will need to fund interest on the credit facilities, future capital expenditures and general working capital requirements out of ongoing operations. If we are unable to meet our cash requirements out of cash flow from operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative financing or be able to raise additional capital in the current economic environment. The success of our Internet piracy prevention segment depends heavily on the continued success of MediaDefender’s content protection technology. If current MediaDefender customers, which include both major motion picture studios and record labels, determine that the benefits of MediaDefender’s technology do not justify the expense, or other competitive technologies are superior than those provided by MediaDefender, demand for its IPP technology would decline and our operating results would be significantly harmed. 15 Table of Contents Global sales of recorded music have recently declined and this trend may continue in the future. Based on data compiled by Nielsen SoundScan, total Internet album sales decreased by 8.6% in 2008 to 27.1 million units as compared to 30.1 million units in 2007. According to the RIAA, the decline, in sales had been due in part, to widespread copying and illegal Internet downloading of music. If the overall trend continues, it may affect our e-commerce business and have a material effect on our revenues. We may not be able to develop or obtain sufficiently compelling content to attract and retain our target audience. For our media and e-commerce segments to be successful, we must provide content and services that attract consumers who will purchase music and related merchandise online. We may not be able to provide consumers with an acceptable mix of products, services, information and community to attract them to our websites or to encourage them to remain on our websites for an extended period of time. If our audience determines that our content does not reflect its tastes, then our audience size could decrease or the demographic characteristics of our audience could change and we may be unable to react to those changes effectively or in a timely manner. Any of these results would adversely affect our ability to attract advertisers and sell music and other related merchandise. We depend on a limited number of customers and if we were to lose any of these customers, our business could be adversely affected. During 2008, no one customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our media revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 65% of MediaDefender’s consolidated revenues were from three customers. Of those three customers, the respective customers’ percentages of revenue were 32%, 21% and 12%. In January 2008, MediaDefender was notified by a customer accounting for 12% of 2007 revenue, that they were discontinuing service and were evaluating the use of other methods to offset the negative impact of piracy. In June 2008, the Company was advised that another customer that accounted for 18% of MediaDefender’s 2007 annual revenues was substantially curtailing its use of MediaDefender’s anti-piracy services subsequent to the expiration of its current contract with MediaDefender on June 30, 2008, citing uncertainty with respect to the effectiveness and cost/benefit of anti-piracy services. Should MediaDefender, lose any of its remaining major customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. During 2007, there were four customers constituting 68% of MediaDefender’s consolidated revenues, one customer accounted for 21%, two customers each were at 18% and one customer accounted for 12%. If we do not build and maintain strong brands, we may not be able to attract a significant number of users to our websites. To attract users we must develop a brand identity for ARTISTdirect and increase public awareness of the ARTISTdirect network; however, to conserve cash we have not been able to spend large amounts on offline and online advertising and promotional efforts to increase brand awareness, traffic and revenue. Accordingly, our marketing activities may not result in increased revenue and, even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. Moreover, despite these efforts we may be unable to increase public awareness of our brands, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The market for online promotion and distribution of music and related merchandise is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The market for the online promotion and distribution of music and related merchandise is highly competitive and rapidly changing. There are a significant number of websites promoting and distributing music and related merchandise that compete for the attention and spending of consumers, advertisers and users. We face competitive pressures from numerous actual and potential competitors. Our competitors include America Online, MSN, Yahoo!, Amazon.com, MTV, myspace.com, mp3.com, billboard.com and other websites and traditional music companies. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and devote greater resources to develop, promote and sell their products or services than we can. Consumers, artists, talent management companies and other music-related vendors or advertisers may perceive websites maintained by our existing and potential competitors as being superior to ours. In addition, increased competition could result in reduced advertising rates and margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. 16 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of suppliers for music merchandise, fulfillment and distribution and if we cannot secure alternate suppliers, our business may be harmed. We rely to a large extent on timely distribution by third parties. During 2008, we relied on Alliance Entertainment to fulfill and distribute our orders for CDs and DVDs. Our contract with Alliance ended in July 2008 and we continue to operate our e-commerce business on a monthly basis in the event that this arrangement is terminated without a suitable replacement our e-commerce business could be adversely affected. Our media and e-commerce segments are subject to seasonality, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our online sales. These seasonal patterns will cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. In particular, a disproportionate amount of our online sales have been realized during the fourth calendar quarter and during the summer months, traditionally when artists go on tour. Due to our limited operating history, it is difficult to predict the seasonal pattern of our online sales and the impact of such seasonality on our business and operating results. Our seasonal online sales patterns may become more pronounced, strain our personnel, warehousing, and order shipment activities and cause our operating results to be significantly less than expected for any given period. We may be subject to system disruptions, which could reduce our revenue. Our ability to attract and retain artists, users, advertisers and merchants for our online network depends on the performance, reliability and availability of our websites and network infrastructure. Our own staff performs the maintenance and operation of substantially all of our Internet communications hardware and servers. We have periodic maintenance windows, and we experience outages from time to time caused by temporary problems in our own systems or software. While we have implemented procedures designed to improve the reliability of our systems, these interruptions may continue to occur from time to time. Our users also depend on third party Internet service providers and website operators for access to our websites. These entities have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures in the future which are unrelated to our systems, but which could nonetheless adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur expenses to enforce our rights. We rely upon the registered trademark rights in the United States for our commercial use of the ARTISTdirect, Ultimate Band List and other brand names and their respective associated domain names, and the ARTISTdirect logo. We seek to protect our trademarks by registration and copyrights and other proprietary rights through confidentiality requirements and other means, but these actions may be inadequate. It may be possible that some of our innovations may not be protectable. We have trademark applications pending in several jurisdictions, but our registrations may not be accepted or may be preempted by third parties and/or we may not be able to register our trademarks in all jurisdictions in which we intend to do business. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, or disclosure of trade secrets, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as those in the United States. Confidentiality may be compromised intentionally or accidentally by contractors, customers, other third parties or our employees. If third parties were to use or otherwise misappropriate our copyrighted materials, trademarks or other proprietary rights without our consent or approval, our competitive position could be harmed, or we could become involved in litigation to enforce our rights. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our content, trademarks and other proprietary rights could be very expensive, difficult or impossible, particularly given the global nature of the Internet, and we may not be able to determine the existence or extent of any unauthorized use. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop independently equivalent or superior technology or intellectual property rights. 17 Table of Contents Our access to copyrighted content depends upon the willingness of content owners to make their content available. The music content available on the ARTISTdirect network is typically comprised of copyrighted works owned or controlled by multiple third parties. Most of the content on our artist-specific websites is either owned or licensed by the artist. On other parts of the ARTISTdirect network, depending on the nature of the content and how we use the music content, we typically license such rights from publishers, record labels, performing rights societies or artists. We frequently either do not have written contracts or have short-term contracts with copyright owners, and, accordingly, our access to copyrighted content depends upon the willingness of such parties to continue to make their content available. If the fees for music content increase substantially or if significant music content becomes unavailable, our ability to offer music content could be materially limited. We have not obtained a license for some of the content offered on the ARTISTdirect network, including links to other music-related sites and thirty-second streamed song samples, because we believe that a license is not required under existing law. However, this area of law remains uncertain and may not be resolved for a number of years. When this area of law is resolved, we may be required to obtain licenses for such content, alter or remove the content from our websites and be forced to pay potentially significant financial damages for past conduct. We continue to discuss the potential for license arrangements with many of the major music publishers. If our online security measures fail, we could lose visitors to our sites and could be subject to claims for damage from our users, content providers, advertisers and merchants. Our relationships with consumers would be adversely affected and we may be subject to claims for damages if the security measures that we use to protect their personal information, especially credit card numbers, are ineffective. We rely on security and authentication technology that we license from third parties to perform real-time credit card authorization and verification with our bank. We cannot predict whether events or developments will result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect a customer’s personal information. Our infrastructure may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, physical or electronic computer break-ins, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Internet service providers have experienced, and may continue to experience, interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees and others. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Security breaches relating to our activities or the activities of third-party contractors that involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information could damage our reputation and our relationships with our content providers, advertisers and merchants. We also could be liable to our content providers, advertisers and merchants for the damages caused by such breaches or we could incur substantial costs as a result of defending claims for those damages. We may need to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or to address problems caused by such security. Our security measures may not prevent disruptions or security breaches. We may be subject to liability if private information provided by our users were misused. Our privacy policy discloses how we use individually identifiable information that we collect. This policy is displayed and accessible throughout the ARTISTdirect network. Despite this policy, however, if third persons were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our users’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. We could also be subject to liability for claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, or other misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in costly and time-consuming litigation. While we attempt to be fully compliant with our privacy policy, our efforts may not be entirely successful. In addition, at times we rely upon outside vendors to maintain data-collection software, and there can be no assurance that they will at all times comply with our instructions to comply with our privacy policy. If our methods of complying with our privacy policy are inadequate, or our business practices be found to differ from our privacy policy, we may face litigation with the FTC, California and other State’s governmental authorities or individuals, which would adversely affect our business. It is also possible that users or visitors could try to recover damages in a civil action as well. 18 Table of Contents We may be sued for content available or posted on our websites or products sold through our websites or for linking and framing of third-party websites. We may be liable to third parties for content published on our websites and other websites where our syndicated content appears if the music, artwork, text or other content available violates their copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights or if the available content is defamatory, obscene or pornographic. Similar claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against website operators in the past. We also may be liable for content uploaded or posted by our users on our websites, such as digitally distributed music files, postings on our message boards, chat room discussions and copyrightable works. In addition, we could have liability to some of our content licensors for claims made against them for content available on our websites. We also could be exposed to these types of claims for content that may be accessed from our websites or via links to other websites or for products sold through our website. While we have resolved all of these types of claims made against us in the past, we may not be able to do so in the future. Any litigation as a result of defending these types of claims could result in substantial costs and damages. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims or the costs of their defense or payment of damages. We link to and “frame” third-party websites of our artists without express written permission to do so. In addition, in the past we have provided a search feature to allow users to find music residing elsewhere on the Internet. Those practices are controversial, and have, in instances not involving us, resulted in litigation. Various claims, including trademark and copyright infringement, unfair competition, and commercial misappropriation, as well as infringement of the right of publicity may be asserted against us as a result. The law regarding linking and framing remains unsettled; it is uncertain as to how existing laws, especially trademark and copyright law, will be applied by the judiciary to the Internet. Also, Congress is increasingly active in passing new laws related to the Internet, and there is uncertainty as to the impact of future potential laws, especially those involving domain names, databases and privacy. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our stock price is volatile and could decline in the future. The price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future. The stock market, in general, and the market price for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme stock price fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Many companies in the technology and related industries have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. The limited trading market may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on a limited basis on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol “ARTD.OB.” The quotation of our common stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: · investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; · market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and · a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” since it meets one or more of the definitions in Rule 3a51-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend the stock but must trade in it on an unsolicited basis. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. We expect to incur additional accounting related expenses associated with compliance with Section 404. The securities issued by the Company in connection with the restructuring of our senior and subordinated debt could have a negative impact on the market price of our stock. In connection with the Debt Restructuring and debt conversion, 45,732,492 shares of common stock were issued to the Senior and Subordinated Note holders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued in connection with the Debt Restructuring and debt conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Additionally, the existence of these shares could be perceived as representing a negative overhang on the market for our stock. Changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect reported results of operation. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these accounting standards, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations, by us or by our regulatory agencies, may occur that could adversely affect the Company’s reported financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 