ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are material to an understanding of our company. Any of the following risks as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and cause the value of our stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that are currently deemed immaterial, also may become important factors. We have limited operating funds. The Company has incurred substantial losses in recent periods. Losses for the twelve months ended May 31, 2011 were $162,719 and losses for the years ended May 31, 2010 and 2009 were $26,583,731 and $4,856,356, respectively. Management believes that current operations will be sufficient to meet its anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements. However, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of factors, including our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations, the amount of our cash reserves, the amount and terms of our existing debt arrangements, the availability of sufficient collateral and the prospects of our business. Our stock is no longer traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market but instead is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares, may potentially lead to future market declines and may increase our costs related to registration statements. 4 An investor may find it difficult to sell our common shares or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities, potentially leading to declines in our share price. This may cause us to have difficulty obtaining future financing. The company’s stock may not continue to be publicly traded, or the company may elect to “go dark” and stop filing reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Either of these may make it difficult for investors to sell shares. Additionally, we are now not eligible to use short form registration statements with the respect to the sale of our securities. This could substantially increase our costs of registering securities in the future, if we are so required in connection with financing transactions. Our common stock may become subject to certain “Penny Stock” rules which may make it a less attractive investment. Since the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act if our net tangible assets fall below $2 million or our average revenue falls below $6,000,000 for three years. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, must satisfy special sales practice requirements. For these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. The price of our common shares historically has been volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell our common shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The market price of our common shares has been highly volatile in the past, and may continue to be volatile in the future. For example, since June 1, 2004, the closing sale price of our common shares as quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market prior to May 22, 2009 and since such date on the OTCBB has fluctuated between $8.00 and $2,140.00 per share. The following factors may significantly affect the market price of our common shares: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · announcement of new products, product enhancements, joint ventures and other alliances by our competitors or us; · technological innovations by our competitors or us; · general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries; · the issuance of new common shares that dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders; and · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We have and may continue to issue securities with rights superior to those of our common stock, which could materially limit the ownership rights of existing stockholders. We have and may continue to offer debt or equity securities in private and/or public offerings in order to raise working capital and to refinance our debt. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue an unlimited number of Class A Preferred Shares, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our board of directors without shareholder approval. The designation and issuance of Class A Preferred Shares in the future could create additional securities that would have dividend, liquidation and voting preferences prior in right to the outstanding common shares. The board of directors is also authorized to issue and unlimited number of common shares and has the right to determine the terms and rights of any debt securities without obtaining further approval of the stockholders. It is likely that any debt securities or preferred stock that we sell would have terms and rights superior to those of our common stock and may be convertible into common stock. Any sale of securities could adversely affect the interests or voting rights, impede a change of control and result in substantial dilution to the existing holders of our common stock. Additionally, a sale of securities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not become profitable. Our ability to reduce our losses or earn a profit will be adversely affected if revenue falls or grows more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Failure to achieve or maintain profitability would materially adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 5 Our large shareholders may influence certain decisions regarding the Company. As of August 5, 2011, CCM Master Qualified Fund beneficially owns approximately 36.24% of our common shares and Magnetar Capital Master Fund beneficially owns approximately 17.98% of our common shares. To the extent that CCM Master Qualified Fund in particular, and other of our large shareholders in general, continue to own such a substantial portion of our outstanding common shares, even though less than a majority, they will have significant influence over all matters submitted to our shareholders and exercise significant control over our business policies and affairs. Any of our large shareholders may have interests that conflict with or are different from our own and those of our other shareholders. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other business combination that some shareholders might consider beneficial. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technologies and brand names. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could provide third parties with access to our technologies without payment. If this were to occur, our proprietary technologies would lose value and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. The measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or protect us if misappropriation occurs. Policing unauthorized use of our technologies and other intellectual property is difficult, particularly because of the global nature of the internet. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. Third parties could claim that we infringe upon their proprietary technologies. Our products, services, content and brand names may be found to infringe valid copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In the event of a successful infringement claim against us and our failure or inability to modify our technologies or services, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, we may not be able to offer our services. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements, modify our technologies or services or prevent us from using important technologies or services, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in law or regulation may have an adverse impact. Uncertainty and new regulations relating to the internet could increase our costs of doing business, prevent us from providing our services, slow the growth of the internet or subject us to liability, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Changes in the law or regulation relating to the availability of tax incentives and grants may hurt our ability to sell services related to these incentives. . There are currently few laws and regulations directly governing access to, or commerce on, the Internet. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, the legal and regulatory environment that pertains to the internet is uncertain and continues to change. New and existing laws may cover issues which include: · user privacy; · pricing controls; · consumer protection; · libel and defamation; · copyright and trademark protection; · characteristics and quality of services; · sales and other taxes; and · other claims based on the nature and control of Internet materials. The Canadian Federal Government enacted privacy legislation which requires us to appoint an individual responsible for the administration of personal information, to implement policies and practices to protect personal information, to provide access to information and to deal with complaints. We must obtain individual consents for each collection, use or retention of personal information. We implemented procedures to comply with this new privacy legislation. The privacy legislation increases our cost of doing business due to the administrative burden of these laws, restricts our activities in light of the consent requirement and potentially subjects us to monetary liability for breach of these laws. 6 Breaches of our network security could be costly. If unauthorized persons penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We may be required to spend capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. In addition, because we host data for our clients, we may be liable to any of those clients that experience losses due to our security failures. While we have implemented measures to strengthen and improve our intrusion protection system, this is not an absolute guarantee that security breakdowns will not occur. As a result, a material security breach could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common shares may decline. Because we have international operations, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. We expect to continue to expand our U.S. and Canadian operations through both organic growth and acquisitions and may spend significant financial and managerial resources to do so. In addition, we intend to expand our talent management solution offerings on a broader international scale and are presently enhancing our products with further multi-lingual and multi-currency capabilities. Our international operations are now and will be subject to certain risks, including: · changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and trade barriers; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the impact of recessions in economies outside of Canada; · the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and any unexpected changes therein; · political or economic constraints on international trade or instability; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our business may be adversely affected if internet service providers fail to provide satisfactory service to our clients to enable them to use our services and access job seeker candidates on-line. Failure of internet service providers or on-line service providers to provide access to the internet to our clients and job seekers would prevent them from accessing our web board, which would cause our business to suffer. Many of the internet service providers, on-line service providers and other web site operators on which we depend have experienced significant service slowdowns, malfunctions, outages and capacity limitations. If users experience difficulties using our services due to the fault of third parties, our reputation and brand name could be harmed. Failure of the internet infrastructure to support current and future user activity may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure will continue to effectively support the demands placed on it as the internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, greater frequency of use and increased bandwidth requirements of users. In the past, the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays. The internet is also subject to actions of terrorists or hackers who may attempt to disrupt specific web sites or Internet traffic generally. Any future outages or delays could affect the willingness of employers to use our on-line recruitment offerings and of job seekers to post their resumes on the internet. Although we have never experienced an internet interruption that has had a material adverse effect on our business, if any such event were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not expand and upgrade our systems and hardware in a timely manner in order to accommodate growth in our business, which could adversely affect our business. We must expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware in order to accommodate growth in our business. While we have recently updated and refreshed our data center capabilities and upgraded the necessary equipment there is no assurance that such changes and upgrades will accommodate growth in our business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 7 We depend on our key employees to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain our key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of our new Board members, our new senior management team and other key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key employees. If any of our key employees leave before suitable replacements are found, there could be an adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that suitable replacements could be hired without incurring substantial additional costs, or at all. 