ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth as follows and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that pertain to our Company. The realization of such risks could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, business or the market for our common shares. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks or address them on a continuing basis. We have limited operating funds, and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional capital to operate the business. We have experienced net losses which have caused an accumulated deficit of approximately $132,000,000 as of May 31, 2008. In addition, we have consumed net cash used in operating activities of approximately $12,500,000 for the year ended May 31, 2008. We will require additional funds to sustain and expand our current business, and to continue implementing our business plan. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its report, which includes an explanatory paragraph for a going concern uncertainty on our financial statements as of May 31, 2008. Our ability to continue as a going concern is heavily dependent upon our ability to obtain additional capital to sustain operations. Currently, we have no commitments to obtain additional capital, and there can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The Company has a material weakness in its internal accounting controls. In the 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company noted that it had identified a material weakness in its internal accounting controls because of insufficient staffing in its accounting department. The Company took remedial action to correct this weakness, but, as of the date of the 2008 audit, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer determined that the material weakness had not been remediated and therefore has continued. The reason for this decision is that during the Company’s annual audit, a material weakness arose due to numerous adjustments to the Company’s financial statements that were not detected by the Company’s accounting staff. See Item 9A. By definition, a material weakness means that there is a significant deficiency that, by itself, or in combination with other significant deficiencies, results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Additionally, the existence of a material weakness precludes management from concluding that internal control over financial reporting is effective. We may not become profitable. Since our inception, we have incurred losses which have been substantial in relation to our operations. As of May 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $132,000,000. We reported net losses of approximately $52,600,000 and $13,800,000 for the years ended May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues for fiscal 2008 and 2007 were approximately $27,600,000 and $29,300,000, respectively. Our ability to reduce our losses will be adversely affected if we continue to acquire companies reporting losses, if revenue grows slower than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Failure to achieve or maintain profitability would materially adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We expect our operating expenses to moderate due to the scalability of our business model. Our business could suffer if financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on a number of factors, including our ability to generate positive cash flow, cash required for future anticipated capital expenditures, the development of new services or technologies and our projected operational needs. We recentlyundertook cost reductions in an effort to meet our working capital requirements and capital expenditure requirements through at least May 31, 2009. We are not sure whether these cost reductions, together with our anticipated generation of cash flow will be sufficient to meet these requirements.I It is possible that we may need to raise additional funds sooner than expected in order to fund working capital expansion, develop new, and enhance existing services, or acquire complementary businesses or technologies or if our revenues are less or our expenses are greater than we expect. Our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of factors, including our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations, the amount of our cash reserves, the amount and terms of our existing debt arrangements, the availability of sufficient collateral and the prospects of our business. If financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, it may impair our ability to: 15 · fund current operations; · keep up with technological advances; · pursue acquisition opportunities; · develop product enhancements; · make capital expenditures; · respond to business opportunities; · address competitive pressures or adverse industry developments; or · withstand economic or business downturns. Future financings may be on terms adverse to shareholder interests. In the past we have issued, and in the future we may issue, equity to raise additional funds. If we issue additional securities, our existing shareholders may be further diluted and holders of those new securities may have dividend, liquidation, voting and other rights senior to those of the holders of our common shares. Current economic downturns may adversely affect the demand for our services. The general level of current economic activity has significantly affected the demand for employment and recruitment services in our Career Networks segment, as well as, sales of Enterprise software. If the general level of economic activity continues to be slow, our clients may not require additional personnel and may delay or cancel plans that involve recruiting new personnel using our services and technology. Consequently, the time from initial contact with a potential client to the time of sale could increase and the demand for our services could decline, resulting in a loss of revenue harming our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, it is expected that in times of economic growth, demand for our career transition services may decline. Future economic downturns may adversely affect the demand for our services. Historically, the general level of economic activity has significantly affected the demand for employment and recruitment services in our Career Networks segment, as well as, sales of Enterprise software. If the general level of economic activity slows, our clients may not require additional personnel and may delay or cancel plans that involve recruiting new personnel using our services and technology. Consequently, the time from initial contact with a potential client to the time of sale could increase and the demand for our services could decline, resulting in a loss of revenue harming our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, it is expected that in times of economic growth, demand for our career transition services may decline. We may not be able to grow our client base and revenue because of competition we face. Our future success will depend to a large extent on our ability to grow and maintain our client base and revenue. This requires that we offer services that are superior to the services being offered by the competition that we face and that we price our services competitively. The market for human capital management, or HCM, services is highly fragmented and competitive, with numerous companies offering products or services that compete with one or more of the services that we offer. We compete for a portion of employers’ human resource budgets with many types of competitors, as employers typically utilize a variety of sources for managing their human capital needs, including: 16 client-server-based software services; web-based and hosted service providers with a variety of human capital solutions; traditional offline recruiting firms; traditional offline advertising, such as print media; resume processing companies; web-based recruitment companies; and Internet job posting companies. In addition, many employers are developing or may develop their own software to satisfy their recruitment needs. We also compete with traditional offline and web-based outplacement service companies and human resource, or HR, service providers. While we do not believe that any of our competitors offer the full suite of services that we provide, there are a number of companies that have products or services that compete with one or more of the services we provide. For instance, companies that compete with our recruiting systems services include Taleo Corporation, BrassRing, Webhire and Kenexa. Companies such as Monster Worldwide, Execunet and Netshare have products or services that compete with our applicant sourcing and exchange services. We also compete with vendors of enterprise resource planning software, such as Peoplesoft, Oracle and SAP. In the area of outplacement services, we compete with companies such as ITS Personal Marketing and WSA Corp. Companies such as LifeCare, Next Jump and SparkFly compete with our employee portal. Oracle, SAP, Workscape and Authoria are our main competitors for our benefit products and Siebel, Kronos, Callidus, Softscape, Success Factors and Authoria compete with our compensation and performance product lines. We expect competition to increase and intensify in the future, with increased price competition developing for our services. A number of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical and marketing resources and name recognition than we do, which could give them a competitive advantage. Our competitors may develop products or services that are equal or superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than ours. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, we may not be able to expand or maintain our market share and our ability to penetrate new markets may be adversely affected. If we experience client attrition, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our Enterprise Workforce Services clients generally enter into subscription agreements covering various periods for at least one year and typically for an average of three years. We have no assurance that these clients will maintain a long-term relationship with us. If these clients fail to renew or cancel their subscriptions with us, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. To the extent we experience significant client attrition; we must attract additional clients to maintain revenue. We may not be able to strengthen and maintain awareness of our brand name. We believe that our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully develop, strengthen and maintain the recognition and reputation of our Workstream brand name. In order to strengthen and maintain our Workstream brand recognition and reputation, we will need to increase our investment in our marketing efforts and continue to maintain high standards for actual and perceived quality, usefulness, reliability, security and ease of use of our services. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our Workstream brand name, particularly after incurring significant expenses in promoting our Workstream brand name, or encounter legal obstacles which prevent our continued use of our Workstream brand name, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common shares could decline. Moreover, even if we continue to provide quality service to our clients, factors outside of our control, including actions by organizations that are mistaken for us and factors generally affecting our industry, could affect our Workstream brand and the perceived quality of our services. 17 Our failure to enter into strategic relationships with third parties may harm our business. If we are unable to enter into or maintain certain strategic relationships, our business will suffer. These relationships generally include those with job posting boards and other on-line recruitment services such as Monster.com and Yahoo!hotjobs pursuant to which our clients can post their job openings on such boards. These relationships allow us to expand the services that we provide our clients without our having to spend significant capital resources developing or acquiring such services. Because many of these third parties compete with each other, the existence of a relationship with any particular third party may limit or preclude us from entering into a relationship with that third party’s competitors. In addition, some of the third parties with which we seek to enter into relationships may view us as a competitor and refuse to do business with us. Any loss of an existing relationship or failure to establish new relationships may adversely affect our ability to improve our services, offer an attractive service in the new markets that we enter, or expand the distribution of our services. We may encounter difficulties with acquisitions, which could harm our business. From fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2006, we made several acquisitions of other companies and businesses as part of our efforts to expand our operations, and we may continue to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products and businesses. While we have no current intention of making acquisitions, the risks we may encounter in completing any such acquisitions include: · difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; · difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; · potential exposure to product liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products; · diversion of management time and attention and other resources; · loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; · difficulty and expense of managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances; · our due diligence processes may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, and legal and financial contingencies, among other things; · potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; · the incurrence of amortization expenses; · possible future goodwill impairment if the financial results and subsequent forecasted financial results are lower than those estimated at the time of the acquisition; and · possible dilution to our shareholders. In the past, we have acquired financially distressed businesses which had lost customers prior to our acquisition due in part to their financial instability. While we are generally successful in retaining the remaining customers of these businesses after we acquire them, we may be unable to recover customers already lost by these financially distressed businesses. We have also frequently used our common shares to pay the purchase price for acquisitions. Our common shares may not remain at a price at which they can be used for acquisitions without further diluting our existing shareholders, and potential acquisition candidates may not view our stock attractively. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. These difficulties may increase our expenses, and our ability to achieve profitability may be adversely affected. 18 Michael Mullarkey, our Chairman, may have interests that are different than other shareholders and may influence certain actions. As of May 31, 2008, Michael Mullarkey, our Executive Chairman, beneficially owned approximately 8.52% of our outstanding common shares. As on November 1, 2008, Mr. Mullarkey beneficially owned approximately 19.91% of our outstanding common shares. Mr. Mullarkey’s interests as a major shareholder may conflict with his fiduciary duties as a director. Mr. Mullarkey’s interests may influence how he votes on certain matters that require shareholder approval. Mr. Mullarkey may influence the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval including the election of our directors, delaying or preventing a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and preventing changes in control or management. Because we have international operations, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. We expect to continue to expand our U.S. and Canadian operations through both organic growth and acquisitions and may spend significant financial and managerial resources to do so. In addition, we intend to expand our talent management solution offerings on a broader international scale and are presently enhancing our products with further multi-lingual and multi-currency capabilities. Our international operations are now and will be subject to certain risks, including: · changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and trade barriers; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the impact of recessions in economies outside of Canada; · the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and any unexpected changes therein; · political or economic constraints on international trade or instability; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We may lose business if we are unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, services and features. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products, services, or enhancements to, or new features for, existing products or services, in a timely and successful manner, we may lose sales opportunities. The market for our services is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements, the introduction of new products and services, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. The adoption of new technologies or new industry standards may render our products obsolete and unmarketable. The process of developing new services or technologies is complex and requires significant continuing efforts. We may experience difficulties or funding shortages that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of enhancements or new products and services. Moreover, new products, services or features which we introduce may not adequately address the needs of the marketplace or achieve significant market acceptance. Currently our common shares trade at prices below $1.00. If this continues in the future, our common shares could be subject to delisting by NASDAQ. Our common stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the Boston Stock Exchange. On November 20, 2007, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) notifying the Company that for 30 consecutive trading days prior to the date of the letter, the minimum bid price per share of the Company's listed securities had been below the minimum bid price per share of $1.00 as required for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Capital Market. 19 On May 20, 2008, we received a notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market informing the Company that pursuant to NASDAQ’s previous communication of November 20, 2007, the Company had not regained compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) related to the minimum closing bid price of the Company’s common shares by May 19, 2008. The notice stated that because the Company met all initial inclusion criteria for the Capital Market set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c) (except for the bid price) on May 19, 2008, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), the Company will now be provided an additional 180 calendar day compliance period, or until November 17, 2008, to regain compliance. To regain compliance anytime before November 17, 2008, the bid price of the Company’s common shares must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. However, on October 16, 2008, the NASDAQ announced that, effective immediately, it was suspending the enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. The suspension will remain in effect through January 16, 2009 and, as a result, we will now have until February 18, 2009 to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bud price requirements. Under the NASDAQ’s requirements, a stock can be delisted and not allowed to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market if the closing bid price of the stock over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $1.00. The Boston Stock Exchange does not maintain a similar minimum price requirement. We intend to seek shareholder approval to authorize a reverse split of our common shares in order to raise our stock price and gain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, However, there is no assurance that our shareholders will approve the reverse stock split or that such split, if approved, will be sufficient to allow us to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00. No assurance can be given that the closing bid price of our common shares will satisfy the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirements and thus continue to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Although our common shares may remain listed on the Boston Stock Exchange, if our common shares are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, there may be a limited market for our shares, trading our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease even further. If our common shares are not listed on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ Capital Market, potential investors may be prohibited from or be less likely to purchase our common shares, limiting the trading market for our stock even further. We are currently not in compliance with the NASDAQ’s reporting requirements and may face delisting if it does not regain compliance. Currently, we are not in compliance with the requirements for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because of our failure to file our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2008 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2008. We filed an appeal of a delisting notice delivered to us by the NASDAQ with the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel requesting continued listing of our common shares until the Panel’s review and determination. A hearing before the Panel to consider the appeal occurred on October 30, 2008. We are awaiting a determination by the Panel on our matter. The suspension of trading and delisting remains stayed pending such appeal. Subsequent to our hearing, the NASDAQ announced that effective as of October 30, 2008, the NASDAQ is providing a company that is delinquent in its periodic filing obligations with the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance pursuant to which the staff may grant an exception for up to 180 calendar days from the due date of the filing for the company to evidence compliance. A company that regains compliance within that time would not receive a delisting determination. We expect that the Panel’s determination will take into consideration such pronouncement. If we are unable to regain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), our common shares will likely be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. As described above, if our common shares are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, there may be a limited market for our shares, trading our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease even further. If our common shares are not listed on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ Capital Market, potential investors may be prohibited from or be less likely to purchase our common shares, limiting the trading market for our stock even further. 20 We may become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, which may decrease the liquidity of our common shares and negatively impact the ability of purchasers of our common shares to sell our common shares in the secondary market. SEC regulations generally define a penny stock as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We are not currently subject to the penny stock rules because our common shares qualify for two separate exceptions to the SEC’s penny stock rules. The first exception from the penny stock rules for which we qualify is an exception for companies that have an equity security that is quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Since our common shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are not subject to the penny stock rules. The second exception from the penny stock rules for which we qualify is an exception for companies that have average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years. Our revenue for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was approximately $27,600,000, $29,300,000, and $28,100,000, respectively, resulting in average revenue of approximately $28,300,000. If our common shares are delisted or removed from the NASDAQ Capital Market and if we fail to meet the average revenue exception to the penny stock rules, our common shares may become subject to the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common shares. For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to purchase. In addition, unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. If our common shares were considered penny stock, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common shares and the ability of our shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market would be limited. As a result, the market liquidity for our common shares would be severely and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that trading in our securities will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future which would negatively affect the market for our common shares. The price of our common shares historically has been volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell our common shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The market price of our common shares has been highly volatile in the past, and may continue to be volatile in the future. For example, since June 1, 2004, the closing sale price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market has fluctuated between $0.15 and $5.35 per share. The following factors may significantly affect the market price of our common shares: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · announcement of new products, product enhancements, joint ventures and other alliances by our competitors or us; · technological innovations by our competitors or us; · general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries; and · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. (See Risk Factor “Our common shares currently trade at prices below $1.00 and could be subject to delisting by NASDAQ.”) The power of our board of directors to designate and issue shares of stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common shares. Subject to NASDAQ limitations, we are authorized to issue an unlimited number of common shares, which may be issued by our board of directors for such consideration as they may consider sufficient without seeking shareholder approval. The issuance of additional common shares in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of current shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation also authorize us to issue an unlimited number of Class A Preferred Shares, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our board of directors without shareholder approval. The designation and issuance of Class A Preferred Shares in the future could create additional securities that would have dividend, liquidation and voting preferences prior in right to the outstanding common shares. These provisions could also impede a change of control. 21 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. We believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes for fiscal years 2007 and 2008. Generally, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if for any taxable year 75% of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. These consequences may include having gains realized on the sale of our common shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our common shares. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technologies and brand names. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could provide third parties with access to our technologies without payment. If this were to occur, our proprietary technologies would lose value and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. The measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or protect us if misappropriation occurs. Policing unauthorized use of our technologies and other intellectual property is difficult, particularly because of the global nature of the internet. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. Third parties could claim that we infringe upon their proprietary technologies. Our products, services, content and brand names may be found to infringe valid copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In the event of a successful infringement claim against us and our failure or inability to modify our technologies or services, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, we may not be able to offer our services. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements, modify our technologies or services or prevent us from using important technologies or services, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may become subject to burdensome government regulation which could increase our costs of doing business, restrict our activities and/or subject us to liability. Uncertainty and new regulations relating to the internet could increase our costs of doing business, prevent us from providing our services, slow the growth of the internet or subject us to liability, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet. There are currently few laws and regulations directly governing access to, or commerce on, the Internet. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, the legal and regulatory environment that pertains to the internet is uncertain and continues to change. New and existing laws may cover issues which include: · user privacy; · pricing controls; · consumer protection; · libel and defamation; · copyright and trademark protection; 22 · characteristics and quality of services; · sales and other taxes; and · other claims based on the nature and control of Internet materials. The Canadian Federal Government enacted privacy legislation which requires us to appoint an individual responsible for the administration of personal information, to implement policies and practices to protect personal information, to provide access to information and to deal with complaints. We must obtain individual consents for each collection, use or retention of personal information. We implemented procedures to comply with this new privacy legislation. The privacy legislation increases our cost of doing business due to the administrative burden of these laws, restricts our activities in light of the consent requirement and potentially subjects us to monetary liability for breach of these laws. Computer viruses or software errors may disrupt our operations, subject us to a risk of loss and/or expose us to liability. Computer viruses may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or software errors in new services or products not detected until after their release could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized or if errors are detected in our software after it is released, our reputation and brand name could be materially damaged and we could lose clients. We may experience reduced revenue, loss of clients and harm to our reputation and brand name in the event of system failures. We may experience reduced revenue, loss of clients and harm to our reputation and brand name in the event of unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures. Our servers and software must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic. If we are unable to add additional software and hardware to accommodate increased demand, we could experience unanticipated system disruptions and slower response times. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses and similar events. We have centralized all of our application hosting in a secure, state-of-the-art datacenter facility and we have invested substantial funds in procuring the necessary equipment. While this initiative should enhance our ability to meet performance and security requirements under our customer service level agreements, there is no assurance that this will cover all eventualities. We have also established redundant systems and implemented disaster recovery procedures, they also may not be sufficient for all situations. We have occasionally experienced delays in providing our customers access to their data in the past, and we believe these system interruptions could continue to occur from time to time in the future. Any catastrophic failure at our network operations center could prevent us from serving our clients for a number of days, or possibly weeks, and any failure of our internet service provider may adversely affect our network’s performance. Most of our system interruptions are due to heavy internet traffic and minor equipment failures which generally result in our customers being unable to access their data for a few seconds or several minutes. Our clients may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them or results in slower response times. Our subscription agreements generally provide that our customers will be able to access their data during certain guaranteed times. If we fail to meet the service levels specified under our subscription agreements as a result of repeated outages, the customer can terminate its agreement with us. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our system or interruptions in our services. Breaches of our network security could be costly. If unauthorized persons penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We may be required to spend capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. In addition, because we host data for our clients, we may be liable to any of those clients that experience losses due to our security failures. While we have implemented measures to strengthen and improve our intrusion protection system and have achieved independent auditor certification under a SAS 70 Type I and II best practices evaluation, this is not an absolute guarantee that security breakdowns will not occur. As a result, a material security breach could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common shares may decline. 23 Our business may be adversely affected if internet service providers fail to provide satisfactory service to our clients to enable them to use our services and access job seeker candidates on-line. Failure of internet service providers or on-line service providers to provide access to the internet to our clients and job seekers would prevent them from accessing our web board, which would cause our business to suffer. Many of the internet service providers, on-line service providers and other web site operators on which we depend have experienced significant service slowdowns, malfunctions, outages and capacity limitations. If users experience difficulties using our services due to the fault of third parties, our reputation and brand name could be harmed. Failure of the internet infrastructure to support current and future user activity may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure will continue to effectively support the demands placed on it as the internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, greater frequency of use and increased bandwidth requirements of users. In the past, the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays. The internet is also subject to actions of terrorists or hackers who may attempt to disrupt specific web sites or Internet traffic generally. Any future outages or delays could affect the willingness of employers to use our on-line recruitment offerings and of job seekers to post their resumes on the internet. If any of these events occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not expand and upgrade our systems and hardware in a timely manner in order to accommodate growth in our business, which could adversely affect our business. We must expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware in order to accommodate growth in our business. While we have recently updated and refreshed our data center capabilities and upgraded the necessary equipment there is no assurance that such changes and upgrades will accommodate growth in our business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on our key employees to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain our key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of certain of our Board members’ senior management and other key employees, including in particular, Michael Mullarkey, our Chairman and Steve Purello, our President and Chief Executive Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key employees. If any of our key employees leave before suitable replacements are found, there could be an adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that suitable replacements could be hired without incurring substantial additional costs, or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 