Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered by investors before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed as a consequence of any of the following risks and uncertainties. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations, or result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly, are difficult to predict and may not meet our guidance or third party expectations. Our net revenue and operating results have in the past, and may in the future, vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year over year due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the macroeconomic environment. These factors limit our ability to accurately predict our operating results on a quarterly basis and include factors discussed throughout this “Risk Factors” section, including the following: • Macroeconomic conditions in our market, both domestic and international, as well as the level of discretionary IT spending; • The timing, size and mix of orders from customers, including the timing of large orders, and nonlinear sales and shipping patterns; • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services; • Evolving condition in the markets in which we compete; • Variability and unpredictability in the rate of growth in the markets in which we compete; • Our ability to continue to increase our market share consistent with past rates of increase; • Our variable sales cycles, which may lengthen as the complexity of products and competition in our market increases and in response to macroeconomic conditions; • The level of competition in our markets, including the effect of new entrants, consolidation, technological innovation and substantial price discounting; • Market acceptance of our new products and product enhancements and our services; • Product announcements, introductions, transitions and enhancements by us or our competitors, which could result in deferrals of customer orders; • Technological changes in our markets; • The quality and level of our execution of our business strategy and operating plan; • The level of industry consolidation among our competitors and customers; • The impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; • Changes in accounting rules and policies; and • The need to recognize certain revenue ratably over a defined period or to defer recognition of revenue to a later period. A high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing overhead, service and support, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions are generally fixed in nature in the short term. As a result, if our net revenue is less than forecasted, such expenses cannot effectively be reduced to compensate for the revenue shortfall and our quarterly operating results will be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results should not necessarily be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. In the past our quarterly results have on occasion failed to meet our quarterly guidance and the expectations of public market analysts or investors, and it is likely that this will occur in the future. If this occurs our stock price likely will decline, and may decline significantly. Such a decline may also occur even when we meet our published guidance, but our results or future guidance fail to meet third party expectations. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and certain of our competitors have greater resources and experience. Our products and services currently focus on the markets for Secure Web Gateway and WAN Optimization products and services, and we recently introduced a product directed to the telecommunications carrier infrastructure provider (“Carrier Infrastructure”) market. We also have announced our intention to deliver the functionality of our Secure Web Gateway products and services on a subscription basis over the Internet, a model frequently referred to as “cloud computing” and typically directed at the enterprises smaller than those that we typically sell to. Each of these markets is intensely competitive, and the intensity of this competition is expected to increase, particularly given current economic pressures and industry consolidation. As well, the market for cloud computing services is one characterized by extreme competition and one that we have not traditionally sold into. Sales to the service provider markets are especially volatile and typically have longer sales cycles. Competition in these markets may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of market share and inability to gain market share, any one of which could seriously impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, including those resulting from consolidation in our historical and new markets and we cannot be certain that the competitive pressures we face will not seriously impact our business. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories; significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources; significantly greater name recognition; and a larger installed base of customers than we do. Such competitors also may have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of our industry and the markets in which we compete and intend to compete. As a result, those competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, promotion and sale of their products than we can. They also may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other providers, thereby increasing their ability to provide a broader suite of products, and potentially causing customers to defer purchasing decisions. Finally, they may engage in aggressive pricing strategies or discounting. Any of the foregoing may limit our ability to compete effectively in the market and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic uncertainty and adverse macroeconomic conditions may harm our business. Our revenues and margins are dependent on various economic factors, including rates of inflation, currency fluctuations, energy costs, levels of consumer sentiment and other macroeconomic factors, which may impact levels of business spending. These conditions may adversely affect corporate spending for IT products and services in specific geographies or more broadly, and could result in: • a significant reduction in our net revenue, gross margin and operating margin; • increased price competition for our products and services; • risk of excess and obsolete inventory; • higher overhead costs as a percentage of net revenue; • difficulty in accurately forecasting demand for our products and services; 16 Table of Contents • insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers and channel partners, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; and • insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are generally fixed in nature, particularly in the short term, which could limit our ability to mitigate any negative impact on our profit margins. We rely significantly on third party sales channel partners to sell our products. Substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and value-added resellers. During fiscal 2010, approximately 98% of our revenue was generated through our channel partners, and 54% of our revenue was generated through 3 channel partners. We depend upon these partners to generate sales opportunities and to independently manage the sales process for opportunities with which they are involved. In order to increase our net revenue, we will need to maintain our existing sales channel partners and to add new sales channel partners and effectively train and integrate them with our sales process. As well, our planned entry into new markets, such as cloud computing, potentially will require that we add new channel partners and educate and transition existing channel partners to effectively address these markets. If we are unsuccessful in those efforts, this will limit our ability to grow our business and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our products are complex, and there can be no assurance that the sales training programs that are offered to our sales channel partners will always be effective. In addition, our sales channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services for reasons unrelated to training. Most of our sales channel partners do not have minimum purchase or resale requirements, and may cease selling our products at any time. They may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of products competitive to ours. There is no assurance that we will retain these sales channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement sales channel partners in the future. The loss of one or more of our key sales channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results within that area, as new sales channel partners typically require extensive training and take several months to achieve acceptable productivity. We also depend on some of our sales channel partners to deliver first line service and support for our products. Any significant failure on their part to provide such service and support could impact customer satisfaction and future sales of our products. While we require that our third party sales channel partners comply with applicable regulatory requirements, they could engage in behavior or practices that expose us to legal or reputational risk. Our gross margin is affected by a number of factors, and we may not be able to sustain it at present levels. Our gross margin percentage has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: • market acceptance of our products and fluctuations in demand; • the timing, size and mix of customer orders and product implementations; • increased price competition and changes in product pricing; • actions taken by our competitors; • new product introductions and enhancements; • manufacturing and component costs; • availability of sufficient inventory to meet demand; • purchase of inventory in excess of demand; 17 Table of Contents • our execution of our strategy and operating plans; • changes in our sales model; • geographies in which sales are made; and • revenue recognition rules. For example, we have in the past entered into large revenue transactions with certain customers that, because of the product mix and discounting, have decreased our gross margin percentage. We may, in the future, enter into similar transactions. As well, our lower end appliances typically have lower margins than our higher end appliances, and therefore large orders for our lower end appliances could negatively impact our overall gross margin percentage. Macroeconomic and competitive developments could put further pressure on our gross margin. We expect that our entry into the cloud computing business will put negative pressure on our gross margins, both as a consequence of our need to invest in infrastructure and the ratable recognition of subscription revenue for such services when received. Even if we achieve our net revenue and operating expense objectives, our net income and operating results may be below our expectations and the expectations of investors and analysts if our gross margins are below expectations. We must continue to develop market awareness of our company and our products and services. We have focused our business strategy and investments on the markets for Secure Web Gateway and WAN optimization products and services during the past fiscal year. We are now moving into new markets, including the Carrier Infrastructure market and the market for the delivery of Secure Web Gateway functionality as a service, with our planned cloud computing service. Market awareness is essential to our continued growth and our success in the markets in which we compete and intend to compete. If our advertising and marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our participation in these markets, the need for our products and services, and the value and capabilities of our specific products and services, we may not be able to achieve sustained growth. Moreover, if the markets for our products and services fail to grow as we anticipate, we may not be able to sell as many of our products and services as we currently project, which would reduce our anticipated net revenue and could result in a decline in our stock price. We must anticipate market needs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements to rapidly meet those needs. To maintain our competitive position in markets characterized by rapid rates of technological advancement, we must correctly anticipate market requirements and invest our research and development resources to meet those requirements. We have recently restructured our product operations into product groups or “business units” and the organic growth of our business is dependent on the success of this new operating model. As well, the introduction of new products by others, market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete or make it easier for other products to compete with our products. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to: • develop and maintain competitive products; • enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • bring products to market on a timely basis at competitive prices; • identify and respond to emerging technological trends in the market; and • respond effectively to new technological changes or new product announcements by others. 18 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that we will accurately predict the direction in which the markets in which we compete or intend to compete will evolve. Failure on our part to anticipate the direction of our markets and to develop products, enhancements and service offerings that meet the needs of those markets will significantly impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our internal investments in research and development may not yield the benefits we anticipate. The success of our business is predicated on our ability to create new products and technologies and to anticipate future market requirements and applicable industry standards. We presently are investing in two new product groups, one targeted at carrier infrastructure products and the other directed at providing our Secure Web Gateway functionality as a cloud computing service. To accomplish these investments, we intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to our research and development function. We will likely recognize costs associated with these investments earlier than the anticipated benefits. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The process of developing new technologies is time consuming, complex and uncertain, and requires commitment of significant resources well in advance of being able to fully determine market requirements and industry standards. Furthermore, we may not be able to timely execute new product or technical initiatives because of errors in product planning or timing, technical difficulties that we cannot timely resolve, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors bringing products to market before we do and a consequent decrease in our market share and net revenue. Our inability to timely and cost-effectively introduce new products and product enhancements, or the failure of these new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance and comply with industry standards, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our introduction of new products and product enhancements could result in the obsolescence of previously purchased or committed inventory, which would reduce our net income. Our acquisitions may not provide the benefits we anticipate and may disrupt our existing business. In the past, we have acquired other businesses, including our acquisitions of Packeteer, Inc., and Permeo Technologies, Inc., our acquisition of certain assets of the NetCache business from Network Appliance, Inc., and in fiscal 2010, our acquisition of a majority interest in S7, an IT research and development outsourcing firm located in Bangalore, India. It is likely we will acquire additional businesses or assets in the future. There is no guaranty that such acquisitions will yield the benefits we anticipate. The success of any acquisition is impacted by a number of factors, and may be subject to the following risks: • inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • loss of key employees; and • substantial transaction costs. Acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: • dilution of our current stockholders’ percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; • assumption of additional liabilities; • incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; • adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to make large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of restructuring and other related expenses; • liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; 19 Table of Contents • creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense or impairment charges; and • incurrence of tax expense related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development cost sharing arrangements and legal structure. The occurrence of any of the above risks could seriously impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may assert that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past and may in the future claim that our current or future products or services infringe their intellectual property rights, and these claims, even if without merit, could harm our business by increasing our costs, reducing our net revenue or by creating customer concerns that result in delayed or reduced sales. This is particularly true in the patent area, as an increasing number of U.S. patents covering computer networking and Internet technology have been issued in recent years. Patent owners, including those that do not commercially manufacture or sell products, may claim that one or more of our products infringes a patent they own. We expect that companies in the Internet and networking industries will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. The defense or settlement of any such claims, even if unmeritorious, could be time-consuming and costly. As well, such claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or to develop non-infringing technology. As well, injunctive relief could be entered against us or trade restrictions could be imposed. Any of the foregoing could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations expose us to risks. We currently have operations in a number of foreign countries. In fiscal 2010, 55.5% of our total net revenue was derived from customers outside of the Americas; thus, our business is substantially dependent on economic conditions and IT spending in markets outside the Americas. As well, in fiscal 2010, we commenced moving certain of our research and development and other operations offshore to lower cost geographies. The expansion of our international operations and entry into additional international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, and subjects us to certain inherent risks including: • technical difficulties and costs associated with product localization; • challenges associated with coordinating product development efforts among geographically dispersed areas; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may inadequately protect our intellectual property rights; • our limited experience in establishing a sales and marketing presence, and research and development operations, together with the appropriate internal systems, processes and controls, in certain geographic markets; • longer payment cycles for sales in certain foreign countries; • seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and at other times in various countries; • the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences or changes in applicable tax laws; • import and export restrictions and tariffs and other trade protection initiatives; 20 Table of Contents • potential failures of our foreign employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust laws, trade regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • compliance with foreign laws and other government controls, such as those affecting trade, privacy, the environment and employment; • management, staffing, legal and other costs of operating an enterprise spread over various countries; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which we currently do not hedge against; • political or economic instability, regulatory changes, and war or terrorism in the countries where we are doing business; and • fears concerning travel or health risks that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services in any country in which the business sales culture encourages face-to-face interactions. To the extent we are unable to effectively manage our international operations and these risks, our international sales may be adversely affected, we may incur additional and unanticipated costs, and we may be subject to litigation or regulatory action. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business. We provide forecasts of our requirements to our supply chain partners on a rolling 12-month basis. If our forecast exceeds our actual requirements, a supply chain partner may assess additional charges or we may have liability for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margin. If our forecast is less than our actual requirements, the applicable supply chain partner may have insufficient time or components to produce or fulfill our product requirements, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products or fulfillment of orders for our products, and result in delays in shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and deferral or loss of revenue. As well, we may be required to purchase sufficient inventory to satisfy our future needs in situations where a component or product is being discontinued. In fiscal 2010, we eliminated the stocking rights of distributors, so we now must rely on our own inventory of products to satisfy customer orders. If we fail to accurately predict our requirements, we may be unable to fulfill those orders or we may be required to record charges for excess inventory. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on single and, in some cases, limited source suppliers for several key products and components of products. We have limited sources of supply for certain key components of our products, which exposes us to the risk of component shortages or unavailability. In addition, we are unable to rapidly change quantities and delivery schedules because the procurement of certain components is subject to lengthy lead times and the qualification of additional or alternate sources is time consuming, costly and difficult. In the event our business growth exceeds our projections, or required components are otherwise in scarce supply, we may be subject to shortages, delays or unavailability of such components, or potential price increases, which may be substantial. If we are unable to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices in order to timely build our products, customer shipments may be delayed. This would adversely affect both our relationships with those customers and our net revenue. Alternatively, we may pay increased prices, which would impact our gross margin. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and third party logistics providers to design and manufacture our products and to fulfill orders for our products. We depend primarily on original design manufacturers (each of which is a third party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platform for our products. We 21 Table of Contents also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture and fulfill our products. These supply chain partners are not committed to design or manufacture our products, or to fulfill orders for our products, on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. Also, from time to time, we may be required to add new supply chain partner relationships or new manufacturing or fulfillment sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed if we fail to effectively manage our supply chain partner relationships; if one or more of our design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; or if one or more of our third party logistics providers experiences delays or disruptions or otherwise fails to meet our fulfillment schedules; or if we are required to add or replace design manufacturers, contract manufacturers, third party logistics providers or fulfillment sites. In addition, these supply chain partners have access to certain of our critical confidential information and could wrongly disclose such information. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed outside the United States, primarily in China, and is, therefore, subject to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. If manufacturing or logistics in these foreign countries is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military or government actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If the protection of our proprietary technology is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technology. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to create proprietary technology and to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in that technology, as well as our ability to defend against adverse claims of third parties with respect to our technology and intellectual property. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, and patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, including countries where we sell products and have operations, do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and unauthorized third parties, including current and future competitors, may independently develop similar or superior technology, duplicate or reverse engineer aspects of our products, or design around our patented technology or other intellectual property. As of April 30, 2010, we had 105 issued U.S. patents, 73 pending U.S. patent applications (provisional and non-provisional), 3 foreign issued patents and 4 pending foreign patent applications. There can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue or that the patent examination process will not result in our narrowing the claims applied for. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to detect any infringement of our existing or future patents (if any) or, if infringement is detected, that our patents will be enforceable or that any damages awarded to us will be sufficient to adequately compensate us for the infringement. There can be no assurance or guarantee that any products, services or technologies that we are presently developing, or will develop in the future, will result in intellectual property that is subject to legal protection under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction and that produces a competitive advantage for us. We must attract, assimilate and retain key personnel on a cost-effective basis. We depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel on an ongoing basis. Our success will depend in part on our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We presently compensate our 22 Table of Contents key and high performing employees in part through awards of equity in the company, including stock options and restricted stock units. Increases in shares available for issuance under our 2007 stock incentive plan require stockholder approval. As occurred in October 2009, we may not obtain the necessary stockholder approval, which could limit our future ability to grant equity awards to employees for the purposes of retention of those employees. The majority of our U.S.-based employees, including our senior management personnel, are employed on an “at-will” basis, which may make it easier for key employees to move to new employment. Our inability to timely hire replacement or additional employees may impact our operations, since new hires, particularly sales personnel, frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. This may affect our ability to grow our net revenue. In addition, we may increase our hiring in locations outside of the U.S., such as in connection with our research and development facility in India, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risks. Our ability to sell our products depends on the quality of our support and services offerings. Our end user customers look to us and, as applicable, to our channel partners to ensure that our products are properly configured and installed, and efficiently and effectively operate within their networks. To the extent we or our channel partners fail to effectively assist our end user customers in their efforts to deploy and operate our products, or fail to timely and adequately address product problems, it may adversely affect our ability to sell our products to those customers in the future and could harm our business and product reputation and impact other sales. Failure to maintain high quality support and services may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product quality problems may result in delayed market acceptance, additional costs, reduced sales or litigation. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected operating errors or quality problems, particularly when first introduced or as new versions or upgrades are released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors or quality problems may not be found in new products or new versions until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and loss of or delay in market acceptance and sales opportunities. This could materially adversely affect our operating results. These errors and quality problems could also cause us to incur significant repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. We may also incur significant costs in connection with a product recall and any related indemnification obligations, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, many of our products operate on our internally developed operating system, and any error in the operating system may affect those products. We have experienced errors or quality problems in the past in connection with new products and enhancements to existing products. We expect that errors or quality problems will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments, which could seriously harm our business. Since our end user customers install our appliances directly into their network infrastructures, any errors, defects or other problems with our products could negatively impact their networks or other Internet users, resulting in financial or other losses. While we typically seek by contract to limit our exposure to damages, it is possible that such limitations might not exist or might not be enforced in the event of a product liability claim. Moreover, a product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend or settle, and could seriously harm the reputation of our business and products. We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business and may suffer other losses if we are unable to improve our systems and processes. Our growth, including growth through the acquisition of Packeteer, together with evolving regulatory requirements and changes in financial accounting and reporting standards, has placed increased demands on our 23 Table of Contents management and our business infrastructure. We need to continue to improve our systems and processes to effectively manage our operations and growth, including our growth into new geographies. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner. As well, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. Our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may bring legal actions against us. In the past third parties have brought legal actions against us and other parties to whom we provided indemnification. We incurred substantial costs to defend those lawsuits and related legal proceedings. It is likely that in the future other parties may bring legal actions against us. Such actions, even if without merit, could harm our business. Any material litigation or arbitration inevitably results in the diversion of the attention of our management and other relevant personnel. To the extent uninsured, such claims further require the expenditure of our resources for defense costs for us and for parties to whom we may have indemnification obligations. We also may be required to pay material amounts in settlement costs or damages. As well, if the matter relates to intellectual property infringement, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or to develop non-infringing technology, and injunctive relief could be entered against us. Customer concerns with respect to material litigation can result in delayed or lost sales. Any of the foregoing could seriously harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. To forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. In addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. If tax authorities challenge the relative mix of U.S. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We rely on technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used with our products. We rely on technology that we license from third parties, including third party commercial software and open source software that is used with certain of our products. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms, we will face delays in releases of our software or we will be required to delete this functionality from our software until equivalent technology can be licensed or developed and integrated into our current product. In addition, the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights might require us to engage in litigation regarding these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various governmental regulations that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to various governmental regulations, including U.S. and foreign import and export control laws and various environmental regulations, including the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electric Equipment (RoHS) regulations adopted by the European Union. In addition, our products contain encryption technology and various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in applicable regulations or enforcement may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We issued convertible notes to fund our acquisition of Packeteer, which could impact our liquidity. We issued zero coupon convertible senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $80 million that mature in 2013, in order to acquire Packeteer. If these notes are not converted prior to maturity we will be required to repay the principal amount, which could impact our liquidity. As well, the notes contain certain conditions of default and, should a default occur, the holders of the notes may be able to require early payment of the notes. We may be unable to raise additional capital. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and short term investments will enable us to meet our liquidity and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if cash is required for unanticipated needs, including payment of our zero coupon convertible senior notes in the event of default or in connection with a proposed acquisition of a company or technology, we may need additional capital during that period. The development and marketing of new products and our investment in sales and marketing efforts require a significant commitment of resources. If the market for our products develops at a slower pace than anticipated, we could be required to raise additional capital. We cannot guarantee that, should it be required, sufficient debt or equity capital will be available to us under acceptable terms, if at all. If we were unable to raise additional capital when required, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event. Our business operations are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. In addition, a substantial portion of our facilities, including our headquarters, are located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. We do not carry earthquake insurance for earthquake-related losses. Despite our implementation of network security 25 Table of Contents measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. To the extent that such events disrupt our business or adversely impact our reputation, such events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our stock is volatile, and is likely to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such volatility in the trading price of our stock can occur in response to general market conditions, changes in the IT or technology market generally or changes in the specific markets in which we operate, and cause an increase or decline in our stock price without regard to our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could decline quickly and significantly if we fail to achieve our guidance or if our performance fails to meet the expectation of public market analysts or investors. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, among others: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in macroeconomic conditions; • the introduction of new products by our competitors; • our ability to keep pace with changing technological requirements; • changes in market valuations of information technology companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, or other significant transactions; • loss of customers who represent a significant portion of our revenues; • additions or departures of key personnel; • fluctuations in stock market volumes; • investor confidence in our stock, technology stocks and the stock market in general; • speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations or business; and • regulatory or litigation matters. It is not uncommon for securities class actions or other litigation to be brought against a company after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, and we have been subject to such litigation in the past. Such actions could result in management distraction and expense and could result in a decline in our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 