Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer material adverse effects due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not known to us or that we now consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. For a summary of statements that may include forward-looking statements and of factors that may influence our actual results, see “Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements” on pages (ii) and (iii) above. If the current growth in the global economy and in the electronics industry is weaker or shorter than expected, demand in the electronic components and modules industry may decline again, which could lead to increased price erosion and adversely affect our results of operations. After a prolonged downturn in the global economy in general and the electronic components and modules industry in particular, we experienced a global upturn in the first half of fiscal year 2004, accompanied by a generally positive trend in demand for electronic components and modules from all industries and regions. However, this recovery slowed quickly and was followed by a further downturn, especially in our home market Europe, lasting until the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. During the periods of economic downturn, we suffered from declining demand in the electronic components and modules industry, which caused a significant drop in our average sales prices, resulting in a reduction in our gross margins and operating profits. Although demand for electronic components and modules stabilized somewhat in the second half of fiscal year 2005 and was strong throughout fiscal year 2006, the future development of the global economy and the demand of the electronic components and modules industry remain uncertain, which makes it more difficult for us to predict our future sales and manage our operations. If the current economic recovery is weaker or shorter than expected, such developments may recur, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to combat the impact of downward price trends and may incur additional restructuring costs in future. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. Pricing pressure was notably pronounced in fiscal years 2002 and 2003 as demand declined. Even though prices stabilized in the second half of fiscal year 2004, there was substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using our components and modules. In the first half of fiscal year 2005, orders for electronic components and modules dropped again due to weak demand in the industry, causing price pressure. This trend was intensified by an unfavorable USD/euro exchange rate. As demand stabilized somewhat in the second half of fiscal year 2005 and was strong throughout 2006, pressure on prices for electronic components and modules eased. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. For a more complete discussion of the competitive factors affecting our major markets, see Item 4. “Information on the Company – Competition.” In response to the competition in the electronic components and modules market, we have taken significant steps to streamline our operations and have incurred substantial restructuring costs, including, in fiscal year 2006, significant restructuring charges in connection with the sale of our tantalum capacitors business and the discontinuation of our UltraCap activities in that year. We may incur additional restructuring costs in future. Our cash flow from operations may not be adequate to finance all of our planned investments. We have planned capital expenditures over the next several years to raise productivity, to enable us to develop new products and, in some cases, to expand our capacity. We describe these expenditures in more detail in Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Capital Expenditures.” To the extent our cash flow from operations is not adequate to finance these expenditures, we may rely on debt financing to meet a portion of our remaining investment needs. If -4- Table of Contents we cannot obtain this debt financing on favorable terms, then we may forego or delay some of these expenditures, which could hinder the development of our business and our competitiveness. Our profitability will suffer if the return on the investments financed through debt is less than the costs of financing these expenditures. Exchange rate fluctuations could affect our ability to price our products competitively. The persistent weakness of the U.S. dollar vis-à-vis the euro has had a negative effect on our results of operations in recent fiscal years since the market prices for our products are essentially dollar-based around the world, even within the euro zone. Additionally, our business will suffer if we are unable to compensate for any competitive advantage competitors based in Japan, the United States or Asia (especially China) may derive from having a substantial portion of their costs based in a currency other than the euro if this currency should weaken vis-à-vis the euro. In recent years, we have tried to reduce our exchange rate exposure by relocating our value chain and materials-sourcing activities from Central Europe to countries with lower labor costs and currencies that are more or less closely tied to the U.S. dollar. If our competitors benefit from weakening currencies by offering their products at prices that are lower than ours, we may need to reduce our prices to make our products competitive, lowering our profit margins. This was the case in particular in fiscal year 2004 as well as in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, when the increasing devaluation of the U.S. dollar and Yen against the euro intensified price erosion for our products. In fiscal year 2006, the devaluation of the U.S. dollar and Yen against the euro continued to give our Japanese and U.S. competitors cost and competitive advantages and resulted in increased price pressure for us. If the weakness of the U.S. dollar and Yen continues, it could intensify price erosion for our products further and our competitive position and profitability may suffer. In 2006, the strength of the Brazilian real (up almost 20% against the euro since 2005) also negatively impacted us, in particular resulting in lower profitability in our capacitors and inductors segment. Cyclical changes in our customers’ industries have resulted, and may in future result, in significant fluctuations in demand for our products, increasing our unit costs and reducing our profitability. Most of our customers are in cyclical industries. Their requirements for electronic components and modules fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors. During periods of increasing demand they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products has peaked and begins to decline, as happened in the second half of fiscal year 2004 and in the first half of fiscal year 2005, they tend to decrease rapidly or even cancel orders for our products while they use up accumulated stocks. During the first half of 2005 in particular, persistent price erosion reduced our profitability because reduction of these inventories lasted unexpectedly long and we were not able to utilize production capacity as planned. In fiscal year 2006, pressure on component and module prices eased from quarter to quarter as demand for electronic components and modules remained strong throughout the year. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions and customer industries. Significant fluctuations in sales of our products increase our unit costs and reduce our potential profitability by making it more difficult for us to predict our production, raw materials and shipping needs. We are also vulnerable to general economic events or trends beyond our control, and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. We must continue to develop innovative products and production techniques to combat downward price pressure for our products and to meet market requirements. EPCOS operates primarily in markets that are subject to very rapid technological change. Sustaining and improving our profitability depends a great deal on our ability to develop new products quickly and successfully to customer specifications. Pressure on the prices of our products increases with the age of the product. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced severe price pressure in the last fiscal years. We have traditionally avoided downward pricing trends in part by offering products with new technologies or applications that offer our customers advantages over older products. We also seek to maintain profitability by developing products to our customers’ specifications that are not readily available from competitors’ stocks. Developing and marketing these products requires continuous efforts and high start-up costs that may not be recouped if those new products or production techniques are not successful. If we are unable to develop innovative products and production techniques, our competitive position and profitability will suffer. Additionally, if EPCOS is not able to respond as quickly as competitors to new market trends or technologies, we may lose market share. -5- Table of Contents Our efforts to expand our business in Asia and elsewhere may lead to increased competition with Matsushita and harm our growth and our cooperation with them. Matsushita is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of electronic components and modules. We expect to face increased competition with Matsushita as we continue our expansion in Asia, where Matsushita has especially strong market positions. Increased competition with Matsushita may harm our growth. Although we have entered into cross license and technical cooperation agreements to govern our cooperation with Matsushita, the possibility of more intense competition between the two companies may also hinder cooperation. Difficulties in this relationship may harm our ability to jointly develop some of our products resulting in higher research and development expenses. Losing the services of members of our management board or our other highly qualified and experienced employees could harm our competitiveness. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of experienced members of management who are able to implement our business strategy. We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we unexpectedly lose the services of any members of management or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of knowledge of our business or through less competitive products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market innovative products. If management is not able to implement our strategy, we may not be able to realize our goals and our results of operations may suffer. Shortages and price increases in some of our raw materials as well as defective incoming raw materials may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. For some of our product lines, we require raw materials that only a limited number of suppliers can provide in sufficient quality or amount to meet our needs. The most significant of these materials include silver/palladium powder and foils for ceramic capacitors, ceramic packaging materials and wafers made of lithium niobate, lithium tantalate and quartz for SAW components. We describe our use of these materials in more detail in Item 4. “Information on the Company – Description of Business – Raw Materials and Sources of Supply.” In fiscal year 2006, we experienced a significant increase in prices for raw materials, in particular for copper wire and aluminum foil, burdening the profitability of our capacitors and inductors segment. If we are not able to pass on the price increase of our raw materials to our customers, our results of operations may suffer. To reduce the risk of supply interruptions or price increases of our significant raw materials, we generally try to maintain alternative sources and seek to reduce our needs of those that are expensive or subject to shortages through technical innovation. Despite these measures, we could experience shortages in the availability of these and other raw materials or a higher volume of defective incoming raw materials that would increase our costs, limit our business volume and hurt our margins. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability and increase our costs. Our operations are subject to many environmental laws and regulations wherever we operate governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. In the past, we have incurred costs in connection with liability for remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Directives and regulations of the European Union call for minimizing the energy consumption of electronic products throughout the product’s lifetime or regulating the use of certain substances are under preparation or already in force. Other foreign countries including China have announced their intention to establish the same kind of regulations. These laws and regulations could adversely affect our manufacturing costs or product sales because they may force us to change production processes or use more costly materials for our products. In particular, the EU regulation on the registration, evaluation, and authorization of chemical substances (REACH) may result in a restriction of the use of raw materials that are important for our production and may cause suppliers to withdraw such raw materials as the costs imposed by REACH may exceed the level of economic production. Thus REACH could adversely affect our manufacturing costs or product sales because it may force us to change production processes, the design of our products or to use more costly materials. For further details, see Item 8. “Financial Information – Legal Matters – Environment.” -6- Table of Contents As with other companies engaged in similar activities, a risk of environmental liability is inherent in our current and historical manufacturing activities. Future additional environmental compliance or remediation obligations could adversely affect our business through increased production costs from implementing environmentally compliant manufacturing facilities. By restricting or prohibiting the distribution of our current products, environmental regulations could also harm our business by forcing us to increase research and development expenditures and by shortening the useful sales lives of our products. We might be faced with product liability or warranty claims, either directly or indirectly through our customers. Despite extensive quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. Such defects could, in turn, lead to defects in our customers’ products that incorporate our products. The occurrence of defects in our products could give rise to warranty claims against us or to liability for damages caused by such defects to our customers or to the customers of our customers. Such defects could also lead to liability for consequential damages. Defects in our products could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. A decline in the value of the euro could reduce the value of your investment and any dividends you receive. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the dollar and the euro have affected and will continue to affect the dollar equivalent of the euro price per share and the dollar value of any cash dividends. If the value of the euro relative to the dollar declines, the market price of the ADSs is likely to be adversely affected. Any decline in the value of the euro would also adversely affect the dollar amounts received by ADS holders on the conversion of any cash dividends paid in euro on the shares. Because U.S. investors may be unable to participate in future rights offerings, your percentage shareholding may be diluted. Except in limited circumstances, German public companies must offer preemptive rights to existing shareholders when issuing new shares. For reasons relating to U.S. securities laws or other factors, U.S. investors may not be able to participate in rights issues we may choose to make and may face dilution as a result. Rights of shareholders in a German corporation may differ from rights of shareholders in a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. EPCOS is a public company organized under the laws of Germany. The rights of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by German law. These rights may differ in some respects from the rights of shareholders in corporations organized in jurisdictions other than Germany. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce the securities laws of other jurisdictions, or to prevail in a claim against the Company based on those laws. Because we and most of our directors and officers are located in Germany, it may be difficult for you to sue these persons in the United States or to enforce judgments by U.S. courts against them. We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany and most of our directors and executive officers are residents of Germany. In addition, most of our assets owned and those of the aforesaid individuals are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to effect service of process upon us or any of the aforesaid persons within the United States with respect to matters arising under the U.S. federal securities laws or to enforce against us or any of such persons judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We have been advised by counsel that it is doubtful as to whether original actions of liabilities predicated on the U.S. federal securities laws may be enforced in Germany and that in Germany both recognition and enforcement of U.S. court judgments with respect to the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws are solely governed by the provisions of the German Civil Procedure Code (Zivilprozessordnung or ZPO). In some cases, especially when the relevant statutory provisions of German law do not recognize the international jurisdiction of a U.S. court or the judgment conflicts with certain basic principles of German law (e.g., the prohibition against punitive damages and limited pre-trial discovery), a U.S. judgment might not be recognized by a German court. Service of process in U.S. proceedings on persons in Germany, however, is regulated by a multilateral treaty guaranteeing service of writs and other legal documents in civil cases if the current address of the defendant is known. -7- Table of Contents 