ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth as follows and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that pertain to our Company. The realization of such risks could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, business or the market for our common shares. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks or address them on a continuing basis. We have limited operating funds, and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional capital to operate the business. The opinion of our independent registered public accountants on the audited financial statements as of and for the year ended May 31, 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph regarding substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced substantial losses in recent years and, as a result, have a stockholders deficit of $5,799,422 as of May 31, 2009. Losses for the years ended May 31, 2009 and 2008 were $4,856,356 and $52,616,875, respectively. The Company's ability to continue as a going concern depends, primarily, upon its ability to successfully refinance approximately $20.2 million of its senior secured notes payable (the “Notes”), including accrued interest thereon that went into default on May 22, 2009 due to the Company’s suspension of trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market as a result of its stockholders deficit. Our ability to continue as a going concern is also dependent upon our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its negotiations with the existing Note Holders and other parties or that the terms of any such refinancing or conversions will not result in the issuance, or potential issuance, of a significant amount of equity securities that will cause substantial dilution to the Company’s stockholders. If the Company is not successful in refinancing the Notes or in otherwise entering into a financing, sale, or business transaction that infuses sufficient cash resources into the Company in the near future, any collection actions by the Note Holders could have a material adverse affect on the liquidity and financial condition of the Company and its ability to secure additional financing and continue as a going concern. Our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of factors, including our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations, the amount of our cash reserves, the amount and terms of our existing debt arrangements, the availability of sufficient collateral and the prospects of our business. If financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, it may impair our ability to: · fund current operations; · keep up with technological advances; · pursue acquisition opportunities; · develop product enhancements; · make capital expenditures; · respond to business opportunities; · address competitive pressures or adverse industry developments; or · withstand economic or business downturns. Our stock is no longer traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market but instead is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares, may potentially lead to future market declines and may increase our costs related to registration statements. On May 20, 2009, the Company received a notice from the NASDAQ Hearings Panel stating that the Panel had determined to delist the Company’s common stock from The NASDAQ Stock Market due to its failure to regain compliance with NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Rule 5550(b)(1) within the 180 day extension period granted after the initial failure notice in November 2008. NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(b)(1) required the Company to have a $35 million market capitalization, a minimum $2.5 million in stockholders' equity or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. 11 The Panel indicated that absent a stay by the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council, the trading of the Company’s common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market would be suspended at the open of trading on Friday, May 22, 2009. We did not appeal the decision. Therefore, the NASDAQ Stock Market suspended the trading of our common stock on May 22, 2009 and delisted our common stock on August 5, 2009. Since June 3, 2009, our common stock has been dually quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), an electronic quotation service maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), and the Pink Sheets electronic over-the-counter securities market. The common shares continue to trade under the symbol “WSTM.” As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of our common shares or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities, potentially leading to declines in our share price. This may cause us to have difficulty obtaining future financing. Additionally, we are now not eligible to use short form registration statements with the respect to the sale of our securities. This could substantially increase our costs of registering securities in the future, if we are so required in connection with financing transactions. Our common stock may become subject to certain “Penny Stock” rules which may make it a less attractive investment. Since the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act if our net tangible assets fall below $2 million or our average revenue falls below $6,000,000 for three years. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that make and individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors in our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. The price of our common shares historically has been volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell our common shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The market price of our common shares has been highly volatile in the past, and may continue to be volatile in the future. For example, since June 1, 2004, the closing sale price of our common shares as quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market prior to May 22, 2009 and since such date on the OTCBB has fluctuated between $0.02 and $5.35 per share. The following factors may significantly affect the market price of our common shares: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · announcement of new products, product enhancements, joint ventures and other alliances by our competitors or us; · technological innovations by our competitors or us; · general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries; and · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We may issue securities with rights superior to those of our common stock, which could materially limit the ownership rights of existing stockholders. We may offer debt or equity securities in private and/or public offerings in order to raise working capital and to refinance our debt. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue an unlimited number of Class A Preferred Shares, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our board of directors without shareholder approval. The designation and issuance of Class A Preferred Shares in the future could create additional securities that would have dividend, liquidation and voting preferences prior in right to the outstanding common shares. The board of directors is also authorized to issue and unlimited number of common shares and has the right to determine the terms and rights of any debt securities without obtaining further approval of the stockholders. It is likely that any debt securities or preferred stock that we sell would have terms and rights superior to those of our common stock and may be convertible into common stock. Any sale of securities could adversely affect the interests or voting rights, impede a change of control and result in substantial dilution to the existing holders of our common stock. Additionally, a sale of securities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 12 The Company had a material weakness in its internal accounting controls. Under Item 9A(T), we note that our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of May 31, 2009 because of our inability to test the information technology controls due to the restructuring of our IT department and relocation and consolidation of our corporate headquarters in Canada and Florida to new facilities at the end of our fiscal year. A material weakness is a control deficiency that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by employees in the normal course of their assigned functions. The Company is in the process of executing its plan to mitigate this material weakness during fiscal 2010. Despite the existence of this material weakness, we believe the financial information presented herein is materially correct and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We may not become profitable. Since our inception, we have incurred losses which have been substantial in relation to our operations and, as a result, have a stockholders deficit of $5,799,422 as of May 31, 2009. Losses for the years ended May 31, 2009 and 2008 were $4,856,356 and $52,616,875, respectively. Revenues for fiscal 2009 and 2008 were approximately $21,500,000 and $27,600,000, respectively. Our ability to reduce our losses will be adversely affected if we continue to acquire companies reporting losses, if revenue grows slower than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Failure to achieve or maintain profitability would materially adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We expect our operating expenses to moderate due to the scalability of our business model. Current and future economic downturns may adversely affect the demand for our services. The general level of current economic activity has significantly affected the demand for employment and recruitment services in our Career Networks segment, as well as sales of Enterprise software. If the general level of economic activity continues to be slow, our clients may not require additional personnel and may delay or cancel plans that involve recruiting new personnel using our services and technology. Consequently, the time from initial contact with a potential client to the time of sale could increase and the demand for our services could decline, resulting in a loss of revenue harming our business, operating results and financial condition. Alternatively, in times of economic growth, demand for our career transition services may decline. We may not be able to grow our client base and revenue because of competition we face. Our future success will depend to a large extent on our ability to grow and maintain our client base and revenue. This requires that we offer services that are superior to the services being offered by the competition that we face and that we price our services competitively. The market for human capital management, or HCM, services is highly fragmented and competitive, with numerous companies offering products or services that compete with one or more of the services that we offer. We compete for a portion of employers’ human resource budgets with many types of competitors, as employers typically utilize a variety of sources for managing their human capital needs, including: · client-server-based software services; · web-based and hosted service providers with a variety of human capital solutions; · traditional offline recruiting firms; · traditional offline advertising, such as print media; · resume processing companies; · web-based recruitment companies; and · Internet job posting companies. 13 In addition, many employers are developing or may develop their own software to satisfy their recruitment needs. We also compete with traditional offline and web-based outplacement service companies and human resource, or HR, service providers. While we do not believe that any of our competitors offer the full suite of services that we provide, there are a number of companies that have products or services that compete with one or more of the services we provide. For instance, companies that compete with our recruiting systems services include Taleo Corporation, Kenexa/BrassRing and Webhire. Companies such as Monster Worldwide, Execunet and Netshare have products or services that compete with our applicant sourcing and exchange services. We also compete with vendors of enterprise resource planning software, such as Peoplesoft, Oracle and SAP. In the area of outplacement services, we compete with companies such as ITS Personal Marketing and Chandler Hill. Companies such as LifeCare, Next Jump and SparkFly compete with our employee portal. Oracle, SAP, Workscape and Authoria are our main competitors for our benefit products and Siebel, Kronos, Callidus, Softscape, Success Factors and Authoria compete with our compensation and performance product lines. We expect competition to increase and intensify in the future, with increased price competition developing for our services. A number of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical and marketing resources and name recognition than we do, which could give them a competitive advantage. Our competitors may develop products or services that are equal or superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than ours. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, we may not be able to expand or maintain our market share and our ability to penetrate new markets may be adversely affected. If we experience client attrition, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our Enterprise Workforce Services clients generally enter into subscription agreements covering various periods for at least one year and typically for an average of three years. We have no assurance that these clients will maintain a long-term relationship with us. If these clients fail to renew or cancel their subscriptions with us, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. To the extent we experience significant client attrition, we must attract additional clients to maintain revenue. We may not be able to strengthen and maintain awareness of our brand name. We believe that our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully develop, strengthen and maintain the recognition and reputation of our Workstream brand name. In order to strengthen and maintain our Workstream brand recognition and reputation, we will need to increase our investment in our marketing efforts and continue to maintain high standards for actual and perceived quality, usefulness, reliability, security and ease of use of our services. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our Workstream brand name, particularly after incurring significant expenses in promoting our Workstream brand name, or encounter legal obstacles which prevent our continued use of our Workstream brand name, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common shares could decline. Moreover, even if we continue to provide quality service to our clients, factors outside of our control, including actions by organizations that are mistaken for us and factors generally affecting our industry, could affect our Workstream brand and the perceived quality of our services. Our failure to enter into strategic relationships with third parties may harm our business. If we are unable to enter into or maintain certain strategic relationships, our business will suffer. These relationships generally include those with job posting boards and other on-line recruitment services such as Monster.com and Yahoo!hotjobs, pursuant to which our clients can post their job openings on such boards. These relationships allow us to expand the services that we provide our clients without our having to spend significant capital resources developing or acquiring such services. Because many of these third parties compete with each other, the existence of a relationship with any particular third party may limit or preclude us from entering into a relationship with that third party’s competitors. In addition, some of the third parties with which we seek to enter into relationships may view us as a competitor and refuse to do business with us. Any loss of an existing relationship or failure to establish new relationships may adversely affect our ability to improve our services, offer an attractive service in the new markets that we enter, or expand the distribution of our services. Michael Mullarkey, our Chairman, may have interests that are different than other shareholders and may influence certain actions. As of September 4, 2009, Michael Mullarkey, our Executive Chairman, beneficially owned approximately 19.57% of our outstanding common shares. Mr. Mullarkey’s interests as a major shareholder may conflict with his fiduciary duties as a director. Mr. Mullarkey’s interests may influence how he votes on certain matters that require shareholder approval. Mr. Mullarkey may influence the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval including the election of our directors, delaying or preventing a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and preventing changes in control or management. 14 Because we have international operations, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. We expect to continue to expand our U.S. and Canadian operations through both organic growth and acquisitions and may spend significant financial and managerial resources to do so. In addition, we intend to expand our talent management solution offerings on a broader international scale and are presently enhancing our products with further multi-lingual and multi-currency capabilities. Our international operations are now and will be subject to certain risks, including: · changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and trade barriers; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the impact of recessions in economies outside of Canada; · the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and any unexpected changes therein; · political or economic constraints on international trade or instability; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We may lose business if we are unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, services and features. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products, services, or enhancements to, or new features for, existing products or services, in a timely and successful manner, we may lose sales opportunities. The market for our services is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements, the introduction of new products and services, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. The adoption of new technologies or new industry standards may render our products obsolete and unmarketable. The process of developing new services or technologies is complex and requires significant continuing efforts. We may experience difficulties or funding shortages that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of enhancements or new products and services. Moreover, new products, services or features which we introduce may not adequately address the needs of the marketplace or achieve significant market acceptance. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technologies and brand names. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could provide third parties with access to our technologies without payment. If this were to occur, our proprietary technologies would lose value and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. The measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or protect us if misappropriation occurs. Policing unauthorized use of our technologies and other intellectual property is difficult, particularly because of the global nature of the internet. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. Third parties could claim that we infringe upon their proprietary technologies. Our products, services, content and brand names may be found to infringe valid copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In the event of a successful infringement claim against us and our failure or inability to modify our technologies or services, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, we may not be able to offer our services. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention, require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements, modify our technologies or services or prevent us from using important technologies or services, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 We may become subject to burdensome government regulation which could increase our costs of doing business, restrict our activities and/or subject us to liability. Uncertainty and new regulations relating to the internet could increase our costs of doing business, prevent us from providing our services, slow the growth of the internet or subject us to liability, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet. There are currently few laws and regulations directly governing access to, or commerce on, the Internet. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, the legal and regulatory environment that pertains to the internet is uncertain and continues to change. New and existing laws may cover issues which include: · user privacy; · pricing controls; · consumer protection; · libel and defamation; · copyright and trademark protection; · characteristics and quality of services; · sales and other taxes; and · other claims based on the nature and control of Internet materials. The Canadian Federal Government enacted privacy legislation which requires us to appoint an individual responsible for the administration of personal information, to implement policies and practices to protect personal information, to provide access to information and to deal with complaints. We must obtain individual consents for each collection, use or retention of personal information. We implemented procedures to comply with this new privacy legislation. The privacy legislation increases our cost of doing business due to the administrative burden of these laws, restricts our activities in light of the consent requirement and potentially subjects us to monetary liability for breach of these laws. Computer viruses or software errors may disrupt our operations, subject us to a risk of loss and/or expose us to liability. Computer viruses may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or software errors in new services or products not detected until after their release could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized or if errors are detected in our software after it is released, our reputation and brand name could be materially damaged and we could lose clients. We may experience reduced revenue, loss of clients and harm to our reputation and brand name in the event of system failures. We may experience reduced revenue, loss of clients and harm to our reputation and brand name in the event of unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures. Our servers and software must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic. If we are unable to add additional software and hardware to accommodate increased demand, we could experience unanticipated system disruptions and slower response times. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses and similar events. We have centralized all of our application hosting in a secure, state-of-the-art datacenter facility and we have invested substantial funds in procuring the necessary equipment. While this initiative should enhance our ability to meet performance and security requirements under our customer service level agreements, there is no assurance that this will cover all eventualities. We have also established redundant systems and implemented disaster recovery procedures, they also may not be sufficient for all situations. We have occasionally experienced delays in providing our customers access to their data in the past, and we believe these system interruptions could continue to occur from time to time in the future. Any catastrophic failure at our network operations center could prevent us from serving our clients for a number of days, or possibly weeks, and any failure of our internet service provider may adversely affect our network’s performance. Most of our system interruptions are due to heavy internet traffic and minor equipment failures which generally result in our customers being unable to access their data for a few seconds or several minutes. Our clients may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them or results in slower response times. Our subscription agreements generally provide that our customers will be able to access their data during certain guaranteed times. If we fail to meet the service levels specified under our subscription agreements as a result of repeated outages, the customer can terminate its agreement with us. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our system or interruptions in our services. 16 Breaches of our network security could be costly. If unauthorized persons penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We may be required to spend capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. In addition, because we host data for our clients, we may be liable to any of those clients that experience losses due to our security failures. While we have implemented measures to strengthen and improve our intrusion protection system and have achieved independent auditor certification under a SAS 70 Type I and II best practices evaluation, this is not an absolute guarantee that security breakdowns will not occur. As a result, a material security breach could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common shares may decline. Our business may be adversely affected if internet service providers fail to provide satisfactory service to our clients to enable them to use our services and access job seeker candidates on-line. Failure of internet service providers or on-line service providers to provide access to the internet to our clients and job seekers would prevent them from accessing our web board, which would cause our business to suffer. Many of the internet service providers, on-line service providers and other web site operators on which we depend have experienced significant service slowdowns, malfunctions, outages and capacity limitations. If users experience difficulties using our services due to the fault of third parties, our reputation and brand name could be harmed. Failure of the internet infrastructure to support current and future user activity may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure will continue to effectively support the demands placed on it as the internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, greater frequency of use and increased bandwidth requirements of users. In the past, the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays. The internet is also subject to actions of terrorists or hackers who may attempt to disrupt specific web sites or Internet traffic generally. Any future outages or delays could affect the willingness of employers to use our on-line recruitment offerings and of job seekers to post their resumes on the internet. If any of these events occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not expand and upgrade our systems and hardware in a timely manner in order to accommodate growth in our business, which could adversely affect our business. We must expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware in order to accommodate growth in our business. While we have recently updated and refreshed our data center capabilities and upgraded the necessary equipment there is no assurance that such changes and upgrades will accommodate growth in our business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on our key employees to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain our key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of certain of our Board members, senior management and other key employees, including in particular, Michael Mullarkey, our Chairman, and Steve Purello, our President and Chief Executive Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key employees. If any of our key employees leave before suitable replacements are found, there could be an adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that suitable replacements could be hired without incurring substantial additional costs, or at all. 