Risk Factors” at Part I, Item 1A, and in “Narrative Description of Business,” at Part I, Item 1, section (c), in this annual report on Form 10-K, as well as in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in Applied’s 2010 annual report to shareholders. PLEASE READ THOSE DISCLOSURES CAREFULLY. 3 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. In this annual report on Form 10-K, “Applied” refers to Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., an Ohio corporation. References to “we,” “us,” “our,” and “the company” refer to Applied and its subsidiaries. The company is one of North America’s leading industrial distributors, supplying customers in a wide range of industries with products including bearings, power transmission components, fluid power components and systems, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and general maintenance and mill supply products. We also provide customized fluid power, mechanical, and rubber shop services, as well as storeroom management services and maintenance training. Customers use our products primarily to maintain and to repair their machinery and equipment. We also sell for original equipment manufacturing uses. We offer technical application support for our products and provide solutions to help customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs. Although we do not generally manufacture the products we sell, we do assemble and repair various products and systems. Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in this business since 1923, when Joseph M. Bruening formed The Ohio Ball Bearing Company. Applied reincorporated in Ohio in 1988. Our Internet address is www.applied.com. The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from the investor relations area of our website: • Applied’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, together with Section 16 insider beneficial stock ownership reports, all as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission • Applied’s Code of Business Ethics • Applied’s Board of Directors Governance Principles and Practices • Applied’s Director Independence Standards • Charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Executive Organization & Compensation Committees of Applied’s Board of Directors The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents (a) General Development of Business. Information regarding developments in our business can be found in Applied’s 2010 annual report to shareholders under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 5 — 11. This information is incorporated here by reference. Subsequent to fiscal 2010 year-end, Applied acquired two businesses listed below for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $32 million. These businesses, except as otherwise noted, are not reflected in the information included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. • On July 31, 2010, Applied acquired UZ Engineered Products, a distributor of fasteners, fittings, lubricants, electrical components, welding supplies, cutting tools, and other specialty maintenance items to government and industrial customers in the United States and Canada. The business operates from one location in Cleveland, Ohio. • On August 3, 2010, Applied acquired SCS Supply Group, a distributor of bearings, mechanical and electrical power transmission components, fluid power components, and industrial supplies, serving a diverse mix of customers from eight locations in Ontario, Canada. (b) Financial Information about Segments. We have identified two reportable segments, service center-based distribution and fluid power businesses. The service center-based distribution segment provides customers with a wide range of industrial products through a network of service centers stretching across North America. The fluid power businesses segment consists of specialized regional companies that distribute fluid power components and operate shops to assemble fluid power systems and perform equipment repair. The fluid power businesses primarily sell products and services directly to customers rather than through the service centers. Both segments offer technical support and provide solutions to help customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs. Segment financial information can be found in the 2010 annual report to shareholders in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 31 — 32. That information is incorporated here by reference. (c) Narrative Description of Business. Overview. Our field operating structure is built on two platforms — service center-based distribution and fluid power businesses: 5 Table of Contents • Service Center-Based Distribution. We distribute a wide range of industrial products through service centers across North America. Customers primarily purchase our products for scheduled maintenance of their machinery and equipment and for emergency repairs. In addition, we operate regional fabricated rubber shops, which modify and repair conveyor belts and make hose assemblies in accordance with customer requirements, and rubber service field crews, which install and repair belts and rubber linings at customer locations. The service center-based distribution business accounts for a substantial majority of our field operations and 81% of our 2010 sales dollars. The business operates in the United States using the Applied Industrial Technologies trade name. We also are known as Bearing & Transmission and Groupe GLM in Canada, Applied México in Mexico, and Rafael Benitez Carrillo in Puerto Rico. • Fluid Power Businesses. Our specialized fluid power businesses primarily market products and services to customers within the businesses’ geographic regions. In the United States, the businesses also market products and services through our service center network. In addition to distributing fluid power components, the businesses assemble fluid power systems and components, perform equipment repair, and offer technical advice to customers. Customers include firms purchasing for maintenance, repair, and operational needs, as well as for original equipment manufacturing applications. Our fluid power businesses include the following: United States International A&H Fluid Technologies ESI Power Hydraulics Atelier P.V. Hydraulique (Canada) Air Draulics Engineering Elect-Air HyPower (Canada) Air-Hydraulic Systems Engineered Sales Pro-Hydraulique (Canada) Applied Engineered Systems FluidTech Vycmex (Mexico) Bay Advanced Technologies HydroAir Hughes Carolina Fluid Components Kent Fluid Power DTS Fluid Power Power Systems Dees Fluid Power Spencer Fluid Power Products. We are one of North America’s leading distributors of bearings, power transmission components, fluid power components and systems, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and general maintenance and mill supply products. Fluid power products include hydraulic, pneumatic, lubrication, and filtration components and systems. These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor. The suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support. Authorizations to represent particular suppliers and product lines may vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power businesses. We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for decades. The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely affect our business. 6 Table of Contents Our product suppliers generally confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with original equipment manufacturers. The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor. There is no assurance this practice will continue and its discontinuance could adversely affect our business. Net sales by product category for the most recent three fiscal years is detailed in the 2010 annual report to shareholders in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements on page 32. That information is incorporated here by reference. Services. Our associates advise and assist customers in selecting and applying products, and in managing inventory. We consider this advice and assistance to be an integral part of our sales efforts. Beyond mere logistical distribution services, we offer product and process solutions involving multiple technologies. These solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs. By providing high levels of service, product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships. Our service center sales associates include customer sales and service representatives and account managers, as well as product and industry specialists. Customer sales and service representatives receive, process, and expedite customer orders, provide product information, and assist account managers in serving customers. Account managers make on-site calls to current and potential customers to provide product information, identify customer requirements, make recommendations, and assist in implementing equipment maintenance and storeroom management programs, as well as automated dispensing systems. Account managers also measure and document the value of the cost savings and increased productivity we help generate. Product and industry specialists assist with applications in their areas of expertise. We maintain product inventory levels at each service center tailored to the local market. These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items specific to local customer demand. Seven distribution centers replenish service center inventories and also may ship products directly to customers. Having product in stock helps us satisfy customers’ immediate needs. Timely delivery of products is an integral part of our service, particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs. Service centers and distribution centers use the most effective method of transportation available to meet customer needs. These methods include our own delivery vehicles, dedicated third-party transportation providers, as well as surface and air common carrier and courier services. Customers can also pick up items at our service centers. Our information systems enhance our customer service. Customers turn to our website at www.applied.com to search for products in a comprehensive electronic catalog, research product attributes, view prices, check inventory levels, place orders, and track order status. We also transact with customers through electronic data interchange (EDI) and interface with customers’ technology platforms and plant maintenance systems. 7 Table of Contents In addition to our electronic capabilities, we serve customers with our paper catalog, a comprehensive resource for nearly 38,000 industrial products. We supplement the service center product offering with our MaintenancePro® fee-based technical training seminars. These courses provide customer personnel with information on maintenance, troubleshooting, component application, and failure analysis in the areas of hydraulics and pneumatics, lubrication, bearings, and power transmission. In addition to distributing products, we offer shop services in select geographic areas. Our fabricated rubber shops modify and repair conveyor belts and provide hose assemblies (also available at select service centers and distribution centers) in accordance with customer requirements. Field crews install and repair belts and rubber lining, primarily at customer locations. Among the other services we offer, either performed by us directly or by third party providers, are the rebuilding or assembly of speed reducers, pumps, valves, cylinders, and electric and hydraulic motors, and custom machining. Our specialized fluid power businesses generally operate independently of the service centers, but as product distributors, share the same focus on customer service. Product and application recommendations, inventory availability, and delivery speed are all critical to the businesses’ success. The fluid power businesses distinguish themselves from most component distributors by offering engineering, design, system fabrication, installation, and repair services. These services can represent a significant portion of the overall value provided to customers. Each business has account managers with extensive technical knowledge, who handle sophisticated projects, including original equipment manufacturing applications. The businesses also provide technical support to our service centers and their customers. With the businesses acquired from Fluid Power Resource in August 2008, we expanded our capabilities in providing the following value-added services: fluid power system integration; manifold design, machining, and assembly; and the integration of hydraulics with electronics for complete machine design. Markets. We purchase from over 2,000 product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, automotive, chemical processing, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, mining, primary metals, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government agencies. Customers range from the largest concerns in North America, with whom we may have multiple-location relationships, to the smallest. We are not significantly dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our net sales. Competition. We consider our business to be highly competitive. In addition, our markets present few economic or technological barriers to entry, contributing to a high fragmentation of 8 Table of Contents market share in our industry. Longstanding supplier and customer relationships, geographic coverage, name recognition, and our associates’ knowledge and experience do, however, support our competitive position. Competition is based generally on breadth and quality of product and service offerings, product availability, price, ease of product selection and ordering, online capability, catalogs, and having a local presence. In the fluid power businesses, product manufacturer authorizations are often more selective and can be a more significant competitive factor, along with market reputation and product application knowledge. Our principal competitors are other bearing, power transmission, industrial rubber, fluid power, linear motion, and general maintenance and safety product distributors, and, to a lesser extent, mill supply and catalog companies. These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations. We also compete with original equipment manufacturers and their distributors in the sale of maintenance and replacement components. Some competitors have greater financial resources than we do. The identity and number of our competitors vary throughout the geographic and product markets we serve. Although we are one of the leading distributors in North America for the primary categories of products we carry, our market share for those products in any given geographic area may be relatively small compared to the portion of the market served by original equipment manufacturers and other distributors. Backlog Orders and Seasonality. Because of our product resources and distribution network, we do not have a substantial backlog of orders, nor are backlog orders material at any given time to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid power businesses. Our business has exhibited minor seasonality — in particular, sales per day during the first half of our fiscal year have tended in the past to be slightly lower compared with the second half due, in part, to the impact of customer plant shutdowns and holidays. Patents, Trademarks, Trade Names, and Licenses. Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial TechnologiesÒ, AppliedÒ, and AITÒ, is an important contributing factor to our sales. Patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business. Raw Materials and General Business Conditions. Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions. We would be adversely affected by the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers, or by any recession or depression that has an adverse effect on North American industrial activity generally or on key customer industries. Number of Employees. At June 30, 2010, we had 4,468 employees. Working Capital. Our working capital position is discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in the 2010 annual report to shareholders on pages 7 — 8. 9 Table of Contents We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories. Significant amounts of inventory are carried to meet customers’ delivery requirements. We generally require payments for sales on account within 30 days. Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements. We believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry. Environmental Laws. We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. (d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas. Information regarding our foreign operations, including information about revenues and long-lived assets, is included in the 2010 annual report to shareholders in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements on page 32 and in “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” on page 11. That information is incorporated here by reference. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Certain risks are identified in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 5 — 11 in Applied’s 2010 annual report to shareholders, and that information is incorporated here by reference. Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations. Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the economic factors that affect them. Many of the primary markets for the products and services we sell are subject to cyclical fluctuations that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce. Consequently, demand for our products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same economic factors that affect demand for and production of customers’ goods and materials. When, as occurred in the recent economic downturn, customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand or tight credit conditions, their need for our products and services diminishes. Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability and the durability of customer relationships. Credit losses increase too. Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for distributors, as well as customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities. In addition, our industry confronts the longer-term secular trend of manufacturing customers moving production overseas to reduce costs. Our ability to continue to serve such 10 Table of Contents customers may be impaired and the size of our overall market opportunity in North America could be adversely affected. Consolidation occurring in our customers’ and suppliers’ industries could adversely affect our business and financial results. In recent years, we have witnessed increased consolidation among our product suppliers and customers. As customer industries consolidate, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from higher volume contracts, which could adversely impact the amount and volatility of our earnings. Consolidation among customers can trigger changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially moving large blocks of business among competing industrial distributors and contributing to volatility in our sales. In addition, consolidation increases the risk of larger customers seeking to purchase industrial products directly from manufacturers rather than through distributors. Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases. Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in supplier distribution programs could adversely affect our sales and earnings. Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of various products to meet customer demand. Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding, but are terminable by either party. The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to meet demand, financial problems, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers’ production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that particular products will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand, especially if demand outpaces supply in an economic recovery. In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors generally, or Applied in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us. For example, key suppliers could change any of the following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing products; the geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier support programs; or product purchase or stocking expectations. An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational distributors of industrial machinery parts, equipment, and supplies. Competition is largely focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price. Some existing competitors have, and potential market entrants may have, greater financial or other resources than we do. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market share by reducing prices, we may need to lower our prices for products or services, thereby adversely affecting financial results. 11 Table of Contents The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in response to declining customer demand. Certain of our product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors, including us, incentives for purchasing their products. The programs often pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during the program period. In some cases, in order to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier. When customer demand for our products declines, we may be less willing to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability. Volatility in product and energy costs can affect our profitability. In recent years, cost increases in commodity materials, such as steel and energy, led product manufacturers to increase the prices of products we distribute. In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is comprised of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities. All of these costs have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Our ability to pass along to customers the increases in our costs depends on market conditions. Raising our prices could result in decreased sales volume, which could significantly reduce our profitability. When costs fall, market prices can fall too, again potentially affecting profitability. Future acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth. We may not be able to identify or to complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their anticipated benefits. Many industries we serve are mature. As a result, our growth in recent years has resulted substantially from the acquisition of other businesses. While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete acquisitions. In addition, existing or future competitors may increasingly seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable opportunities. We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations. However, substantial costs, delays, or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions into our operations could adversely affect our business or financial results. We could face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, information systems, personnel, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, sales increases, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the time frame we expect. Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: our ability to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory effectively, and to consolidate facilities; the incurrence of significant integration costs or charges in order to achieve those benefits; and our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer relationships, and employees. In addition, future acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial resources. 12 Table of Contents Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of future financing. Although the recent credit market turmoil has not had a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds has tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt have increased. Obtaining additional or replacement financing may be more difficult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility would likely be higher than under our current facilities. Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us. For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the following sections of Applied’s 2010 annual report to shareholders: “Liquidity and Capital Resources” on pages 7 — 8, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” on page 11, and notes 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 21 — 22. Our growth outside the United States increases our exposure to global economic and political conditions. Foreign operations contributed 13% of our sales in 2010. If we continue to grow outside the U.S., the risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business, and currency fluctuations will increase. In particular, our results are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates for the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso. Our ability to transact business has become increasingly reliant on our information systems. We depend on information systems to process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations, and provide superior service to customers. A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems could materially impair fundamental business processes and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings. In addition, key business transaction systems are homegrown, which could limit our flexibility to access new functionality and to adapt to new business requirements. Our business depends on our ability to retain and to attract qualified sales and customer service personnel. There are significant costs associated with hiring and training sales and customer service professionals. We greatly benefit from having employees who are familiar with the products we sell and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier relationships. We could be adversely affected by a shortage of available skilled workers or the loss of a significant number of our sales or customer service professionals, including through retirement as the workforce ages. An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers could adversely impact our business. Our business depends on maintaining operations at our headquarters and distribution centers. A serious, prolonged interruption due to power outage, telecommunications outage, terrorist attack, earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We are subject to litigation risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from business transactions. These may, for example, relate to 13 Table of Contents product liability claims, commercial disputes, or employment matters. In addition, we could face claims over other matters, such as claims arising from our status as a government contractor or corporate or securities law matters. The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings may result in higher operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition to the risks identified above, other risks to our future performance include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature, brands, quality, or cost sold by Applied; • changes in customer procurement policies and practices; • changes in the market prices for products and services relative to the costs of providing them; • changes in operating expenses; • organizational changes within the company; • adverse regulation and legislation, both enacted and under consideration, including with respect to health care and federal tax policy (e.g., affecting the use of the LIFO inventory accounting method and the taxation of foreign-sourced income); • the variability and timing of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions; • volatility of our stock price and the resulting impact on our consolidated financial statements; • changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our financial reporting and increase compliance costs; and • instability in the U.S., Canadian, or Mexican banking systems, which could affect our access to, or result in loss of, cash deposits at commercial banks or investments in money market funds. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 