Item 1a. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our securities. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our common stock. For purposes of these risk factors, the terms "we," "our" and "us" refer to iStar Financial Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in general economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our business. Our success is generally dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. and, in particular, the geographic areas in which a substantial number of our investments are located. The recent recessionary changes in national economic conditions and in the economic conditions of the regions in which we conduct operations have had an adverse effect on our business. In addition, the commercial real estate industry and financial markets in general have been negatively impacted by volatility in the capital markets, significant declines in asset values and lack of liquidity. These factors have resulted in numerous negative implications to our business, including the inability of our customers to access capital to repay their obligations to us resulting in material increases in non-performing loans, our inability to execute asset sales, declines in the market price of our common stock, and the reduction in two of our three unsecured corporate credit ratings to below investment grade, leading to increases in our financing costs and an inability to access the unsecured debt markets. These market and economic factors have combined to and may continue to adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to pay dividends. Limitations on our liquidity and ability to raise capital may adversely affect us. We generally must distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income to our stockholders to maintain our qualifications as a REIT. As a result, those earnings will not be available to fund investment activities. Therefore, sufficient liquidity is critical to the management of our balance sheet and our ability to meet our financing commitments and scheduled debt payments. Historically, our primary sources of liquidity have been our bank credit facilities, issuances of debt and equity securities in capital markets transactions, repayments of our loans and sales of assets. However, liquidity in the currently dislocated capital markets has been severely constrained since the beginning of the credit crisis, increasing our cost of funds and effectively eliminating our access to the unsecured debt marketsour primary source of debt financing. We have sought, and will continue to seek, to raise capital through means other than unsecured debt financing, such as secured debt financing, asset sales, joint ventures and other third party capital arrangements. Continued disruption in the global credit markets or further deterioration in those markets may have a material adverse effect on our ability to repay or refinance our borrowings. Although we currently expect our sources of capital to be sufficient to meet our near term liquidity needs, there can be no assurance that our liquidity requirements will continue to be satisfied. We have suffered adverse consequences as a result of our credit ratings being downgraded. Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. Recently, our unsecured corporate credit ratings were reduced to below investment grade by two of the major national credit rating agencies, primarily due to concerns over worsening credit metrics in our loan portfolio. These reductions in our credit ratings, together with the current dislocation in the capital markets in general, have increased our borrowing costs, limited our access to the capital markets and caused restrictive covenants in our public debt instruments to become operative. Further, these downgrades could result in a decision by the lenders under our existing bank credit facilities not to extend such credit facilities after their expiration. These reductions in our credit ratings have increased our cost of 16 funds which has reduced our earnings and adversely impacted our liquidity and competitive positions. Further downgrades could have additional adverse consequences on our business. Covenants in our indebtedness could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to borrow under our unsecured credit facilities, secured credit facility, and secured term loan is dependent on maintaining compliance with various covenants, including minimum net worth levels as well as specified financial ratios such as fixed charge coverage, unencumbered assets to unsecured indebtedness, and leverage. All of the covenants on the facilities are maintenance covenants and, if breached, could result in an acceleration of our facilities if a waiver or modification is not agreed upon with the requisite percentage of the unsecured lending group and the lenders on the other facilities. Our publicly held debt securities also contain covenants for fixed charge coverage and unencumbered assets to unsecured indebtedness. The fixed charge coverage ratio in our publicly held securities is an incurrence test. If we do not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio, our ability to incur additional indebtedness will be restricted. The unencumbered asset to unsecured indebtedness covenant is a maintenance covenant and, if breached and not cured within applicable cure periods, could result in acceleration of our publicly held debt unless a waiver or modification is agreed upon with the requisite percentage of the bondholders. Based on our unsecured credit ratings at December 31, 2008, the financial covenants in our publicly held debt securities, including the fixed charge coverage ratio and maintenance of unencumbered assets compared to unsecured indebtedness, are operative. Our bank facilities and our public debt securities contain cross-default provisions which would allow the lenders and the bondholders to declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if we fail to pay amounts due in respect of our other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds. In addition, our bank facilities and the indentures governing our public debt securities provide that the lenders and bondholders may declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if there is a nonpayment default under our other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds and, if the holders of the other indebtedness are permitted to accelerate, in the case of the bank facilities, or accelerate, in the case of the bond indentures, the other recourse indebtedness. Our current level of financial performance and credit metrics has put pressure on our ability to meet these financial covenants. While we believe we are currently in compliance with our covenants, there can be no assurance that we will be able to stay in compliance if our financial performance and credit metrics decline. In addition, we may be forced to take actions outside of management's operating strategy that will enable us to meet our covenants in the near term but may adversely affect our earnings in the longer term. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market value of our common stock is based upon general stock and bond market conditions, as well as the market's perception of our growth potential, current and future expectations of our financial performance and prospects for payment of cash dividends by the Company. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our book value per share of common stock. The current economic conditions impacting the financial markets and commercial real estate industry combined with the our recent financial performance have resulted in a significant decline in the market price of our Common Stock. If our future earnings or prospects for payment of cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of our common stock could be further adversely impacted. Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We maintain financial reserves to protect against potential losses and conduct a comprehensive review of the adequacy of these reserves on a quarterly basis. Our reserves reflect management's current judgment of the probability and severity of losses within our portfolio. However, estimation of ultimate loan losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process and there can be no assurance that 17 management's judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses. Such losses could be caused by factors including, but not limited to, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. In particular, our non-performing loans have increased materially through 2008, driven by the worsening economy and the disruption of the credit markets which have adversely impacted the ability of many of our borrowers to service their debt and refinance our loans to them at maturity. We have significantly increased our provision for loan losses in 2008, based upon the performance of our assets and conditions in the financial markets and overall economy which deteriorated precipitously during the year. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate we may suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions could result in changes to our financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the reserve for loan losses, the fair value of certain financial instruments (including loans and related collateral, investment securities and derivatives), the valuation of CTL assets, intangible assets and goodwill. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, reliance should not be placed on past quarterly results as indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in loan and CTL portfolio performance, levels of non-performing assets, market values of investments, costs associated with debt, in addition to general economic conditions, the state of the real estate and financial markets and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets. We may suffer a loss if a borrower defaults on a loan and the underlying collateral is not sufficient. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets collateralizing the loan. If the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. Conversely, we sometimes make loans that are unsecured or are secured only by equity interests in the borrowing entities. These loans are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrower. In the event of a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying real estate. In cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our loan or the underlying assets of the borrower prior to a default, and as a result the value of the collateral may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets. We sometimes obtain individual or corporate guarantees from borrowers or their affiliates, which are not secured. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our loans and guarantees. As a result of these factors, we may suffer losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 18 In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower in order to satisfy our loan. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt receives payment. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through "standstill" periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase collection losses and the time needed for us to acquire title to the underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value, causing us to suffer losses. If the value of collateral underlying our loan declines or interest rates increase during the term of our loan, a borrower may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing. Decreasing collateral value and/or increasing interest rates may hinder a borrower's ability to refinance our loan because the underlying property cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. If a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer a loss which may adversely impact our financial performance. We are subject to additional risks associated with loan participations. Some of our loans are participation interests or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of full control. We are subject to additional risks associated with construction lending. Our loan portfolio includes loans made to developers to construct commercial and residential projects. The primary risks to us of construction loans are the potential for cost over-runs, the developer's failure to meet a project delivery schedule and the inability of a borrower to sell or refinance the project at completion and repay our loan. Further, the ability of a borrower to sell units in residential projects may be impacted by current economic conditions and lack of end loan financing available to residential unit purchasers. These risks could require us to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to complete and carry the project and could cause the developers to lose leases and/or sales contracts, which may cause us to suffer losses on our loans. We may experience losses if the creditworthiness of our corporate tenants deteriorates and they are unable to meet their lease obligations. We own the properties leased to the tenants of our CTL assets and receive rents from the tenants during the terms of our leases. A tenant's ability to pay rent is determined by its creditworthiness, among other factors. If a tenant's credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under our lease and may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our CTL assets. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant's bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant's bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under a lease. In 19 other circumstances, where a tenant's financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the total contractual rental amount. Without regard to the manner in which the lease termination occurs, we are likely to incur additional costs in the form of tenant improvements and leasing commissions in our efforts to lease the space to a new tenant. In any of the foregoing circumstances, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue. Lease expirations and lease terminations may result in reduced revenues if the lease payments received from replacement corporate tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring or terminating corporate tenants. In addition, lease defaults or lease terminations by one or more significant corporate tenants or the failure of corporate tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases, could cause us to experience long periods of vacancy with no revenue from a facility and to incur substantial capital expenditures and/or lease concessions in order to obtain replacement corporate tenants. We are subject to risks relating to our asset concentration. Our portfolio consists primarily of large balance commercial real estate loans and corporate tenant leases. Our asset base is generally diversified by asset type, obligor, property type and geographic location. However, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 27% of the gross carrying value of our assets related to apartment/residential assets, 15% related to land, 12% related to office properties and 10% related to industrial properties. All of these types of collateral are vulnerable to economic slowdowns. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 23% of the gross carrying value of our assets related to properties located in the western U.S., 18% related to properties located in the northeastern U.S. and 17% related to properties located in the southeastern U.S. These regions include areas such as Florida and California that have been particularly hard hit by the downturn in the residential real estate markets. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, the Company had loans collateralized by in-progress condo construction assets that represented approximately 18% of the total investment portfolio. These loans typically do not generate cash flows and have unique risks related to such issues as cost overruns, delays and the ability to repay with proceeds through unit sales. We may suffer additional losses on our assets based on these concentrations. In addition, our AutoStar business, totaling 4.7% of the portfolio, focuses on customers in the automotive retail industry. To the extent these customers are adversely affected by the current downturn in the U.S. automotive markets, our investments in the automotive retail industry may also be adversely affected. Our financial position and operating performance could be adversely impacted by additional losses based upon these concentrations. We compete with a variety of financing and leasing sources for our customers. The financial services industry and commercial real estate markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include finance companies, other REITs, commercial banks and thrift institutions, investment banks and hedge funds. Our competitors seek to compete aggressively on the basis of a number of factors including transaction pricing, terms and structure. We may lose market share to the extent we are unwilling to match our competitors' deal terms in order to maintain our interest margins and/or credit standards. To the extent that we match competitors' pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased interest margins and/or increased risk of credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We face significant competition within our corporate tenant leasing business from other owners, operators and developers of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in the markets in which we operate. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our 20 properties, which may result in their owners being willing to rent space at lower rental rates than we would or providing greater tenant improvement allowances or other leasing concessions. This combination of circumstances could adversely affect our revenues and financial performance. We are subject to certain risks associated with investing in real estate, including potential liabilities under environmental laws and risks of loss from earthquakes and terrorism. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner of real estate (including, in certain circumstances, a secured lender that succeeds to ownership or control of a property) may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under or in its property. Those laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or control party knew of or was responsible for the release or presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial. The owner or control party of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from a site. Certain environmental laws also impose liability in connection with the handling of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, pursuant to which third parties may seek recovery from owners of real properties for personal injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. Absent succeeding to ownership or control of real property, a secured lender is not likely to be subject to any of these forms of environmental liability. Additionally, under our CTL assets we require our tenants to undertake the obligation for environmental compliance and indemnify us from liability with respect thereto. There can be no assurance that our tenants will have sufficient resources to satisfy their obligations to us. Approximately 25% of the gross carrying value of our assets as of December 31, 2008, were located in the Western and Northwestern United States, geographic areas at higher risk for earthquakes. In addition, a significant number of our properties are located in New York City and other major urban areas which, in recent years, have been high risk geographical areas for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Future earthquakes or acts of terrorism could adversely impact the demand for, and value of, our assets and could also directly impact the value of our assets through damage, destruction or loss, and could thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against these events. Although we believe our CTL assets and the properties collateralizing our loan assets are adequately covered by insurance, we cannot predict at this time if we or our borrowers will be able to obtain appropriate coverage at a reasonable cost in the future, or if we will be able to continue to pass along all of the costs of insurance to our tenants. Any earthquake or terrorist attack, whether or not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our Common Stock and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our property insurers may not be able to fulfill its obligations with respect to claims payments due to a deterioration in its financial condition. Declines in the market values of our investments may adversely affect periodic reported results. Current economic conditions and volatility in the securities markets have led to certain of our investments experiencing significant declines in market value, which have adversely impacted our financial position and results of operations. Given the recent volatility of asset prices and economic uncertainty, there is continued risk that further declines in market values could occur, resulting in additional writedowns of assets within our investment portfolio. Any such charges may result in volatility in our reported earnings and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We make investments in leveraged finance directly through our portfolio of corporate loans and debt securities, which had a carrying value of approximately $1.13 billion at December 31, 2008, and indirectly through our interest in Oak Hill Advisors, L.P. and its affiliates. The stress in the mortgage and overall financial markets has extended to the leveraged finance market, causing the market prices of bank debt and bonds to trade lower. Significant prolonged reductions in the trading prices of debt securities we hold may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our assets by taking a charge to earnings. In addition, the 21 value of our investment in Oak Hill Advisors, L.P. and its affiliates and its ability to earn performance fees are subject to the risks of a material deterioration in the leveraged finance market. Most of our equity investments and many of our investments in debt securities will be in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We may periodically measure the fair value of these investments, based upon available information and management's judgment. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. In addition, our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments may be materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal, which could result in losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We utilize interest rate hedging arrangements which may adversely affect our borrowing cost and expose us to other risks. We have variable-rate lending assets and debt obligations. These assets and liabilities create a natural hedge against changes in variable interest rates. This means that as interest rates increase, we earn more on our variable-rate lending assets and pay more on our variable-rate debt obligations and, conversely, as interest rates decrease, we earn less on our variable-rate lending assets and pay less on our variable-rate debt obligations. When our variable-rate debt obligations differ significantly from our variable rate lending assets, we utilize derivative instruments to limit the impact of changing interest rates on our net income. The derivative instruments we use are typically in the form of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps. Interest rate swaps effectively change variable-rate debt obligations to fixed-rate debt obligations or fixed-rate debt obligations to variable-rate debt obligations. Interest rate caps effectively limit the maximum interest rate on variable-rate debt obligations. Our use of derivative instruments also involves the risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement could default on its obligation and the risk that we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if a hedging arrangement is terminated by us. As a matter of policy, we enter into hedging arrangements with counterparties that are large, creditworthy financial institutions typically rated at least "A/A2" by S&P and Moody's, respectively. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to retain and attract key personnel is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management and the other key members of our management team and recruit additional qualified personnel. We rely in part on equity compensation to retain and incentivize our personnel. Declines in our stock price may hinder our ability to pay competitive compensation and may result in the loss of key personnel. In addition, if members of our management join competitors or form competing companies, the competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. Efforts to retain or attract professionals may result in additional compensation expense, which could affect our financial performance. We are highly dependent on information systems, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. As a financial services firm, our business is highly dependent on communications, information, financial and operational systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other 22 problems in our business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our growth is dependent on leverage, which may create other risks. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to grow assets through leverage. Our charter does not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur and stockholder approval is not required for changes to our financing strategy. If we decided to increase our leverage, it could lead to reduced or negative cash flow and reduced liquidity. Leverage creates an opportunity for increased net income, but at the same time creates risks. For example, leverage magnifies changes in our net worth. We will incur leverage only when there is an expectation that it will enhance returns, although there can be no assurance that our use of leverage will prove to be beneficial. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets or a financial loss if we are required to liquidate assets at a commercially inopportune time. We may change certain of our policies without stockholder approval. Our charter provides that our primary purpose is to invest in a diversified portfolio of debt and debt like interests in real estate and real estate related assets, although it does not set forth specific percentages of the types of investments we may make. We can amend, revise or eliminate our investment financing and conflict of interest policies at any time at our discretion without a vote of the stockholders. A change in these policies could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our charter may inhibit a change in control. Generally, to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable year. The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. Under our charter, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of stock, with some exceptions. The restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the security holders. We would be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT. We believe that we have been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1998. However, our qualification as a REIT has depended and will continue to depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. As a result of the current credit crisis, it may be difficult for us to meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT including, but not limited to, our distribution requirement. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing our net taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, or "AMT," on our net taxable income at regular corporate rates, as well as applicable state and local taxes. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years following the year during which our REIT qualification was lost. As a result, cash available for distribution would be reduced for each of the years involved. Furthermore, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our REIT qualification to be revoked. 23 To qualify as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or take other actions during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains each year, and we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, as well as applicable state and local taxes, to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Our net taxable income could exceed our available cash flow as a result of, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the recognition of non-cash taxable income, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures or required debt principal repayments. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term, or possibly long-term, basis, sell assets or pay distributions in the form of taxable dividends of our common stock to meet our REIT distribution requirement, even if prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, asset dispositions or stock distributions. Certain of our activities are subject to taxes and could result in taxes allocated to our Shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes on our income and property, including taxes on net taxable income that we fail to distribute to our stockholders. In addition, our "taxable REIT subsidiaries" are fully taxable corporations, and there are limitations on the ability of taxable REIT subsidiaries to make interest payments to affiliated REITs. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax to the extent economic arrangements among our tenants, our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. We will also be subject to a 100% tax to the extent we derive income from the sale of assets to customers in the ordinary course of business. To the extent we or our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay U.S. federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Although we do not intend to invest a material portion of our assets in real estate mortgage investment conduits, or "REMICs," or taxable mortgage pools, in each case, of which we own or are treated as owning residual interests, we have owned such assets in the past. In the event we were to own REMIC or taxable mortgage pool residual interests, a portion of our income from these assets could be treated as "excess inclusion income." IRS guidance indicates that our excess inclusion income will be allocated among our shareholders in proportion to our dividends paid. A shareholder's share of our excess inclusion income (i) would not be allowed to be offset by any net operating losses otherwise available to the shareholder, (ii) would be subject to tax as unrelated business taxable income in the hands of most tax-exempt shareholders, and (iii) would result in the application of U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30%, without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty, in the hands of a non-U.S. shareholder. In addition, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate on our excess inclusion income allocated to "disqualified organizations" (generally, tax-exempt investors that are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on unrelated business taxable income, including governmental organizations and charitable remainder trusts) that hold our stock in record name. Further, the IRS has taken the position that broker/dealers and nominees holding our stock in "street name" on behalf of disqualified organizations are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate on our excess inclusion income allocated to such disqualified organizations. Similarly, a regulated investment company or other pass-through entity may be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate on our excess inclusion income to the extent such entities are owned by disqualified organizations. 24 Our Investment Company Act exemption limits our investment discretion and loss of the exemption would adversely affect us. We believe that we currently are not, and we intend to operate our company so that we will not be, regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act because we are "primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate." Specifically, we are required to invest at least 55% of our assets in "qualifying real estate assets" (that is, real estate, mortgage loans and other qualifying interests in real estate), and at least an additional 25% of our assets in other "real estate-related assets," such as mezzanine loans and unsecured investments in real estate entities, or additional qualifying real estate assets. We will need to monitor our assets to ensure that we continue to satisfy the percentage tests. Maintaining our exemption from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act limits our ability to invest in assets that otherwise would meet our investment strategies. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, we could not operate our business efficiently under the regulatory scheme imposed on investment companies under the Investment Company Act, and we could be required to restructure our activities. This would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and the market price of our securities. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 