Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company entails the following risks and uncertainties. These risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating any investment in the Company. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause the actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements set forth herein, and could otherwise have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, please read “Note About Forward-Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with our business and the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 16 Table of Contents Market and Operational Risks Increases in the Company’s cancellation rate could have a negative impact on the Company’s home sales revenue and home building gross margins. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, the Company experienced cancellation rates of 14%, 18%, and 19%, respectively. Cancellations negatively impact the number of closed homes, net new home orders, home sales revenue and the Company’s results of operations, as well as the number of homes in backlog. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. Continued high levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on the Company’s home sales revenue and financial and operating results. Limitations on the availability of mortgage financing can adversely affect demand for housing. In general, housing demand is negatively impacted by the unavailability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or other factors. Most buyers finance their home purchases through third-party lenders providing mortgage financing. Over the last several years, many third-party lenders have significantly increased underwriting standards, and many subprime and other alternate mortgage products are no longer available in the marketplace in spite of a decrease in mortgage rates. If these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult to obtain, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect the Company’s results of operations through reduced home sales revenue, gross margin and cash flow. Changes in federal income tax laws may also affect demand for new homes. Various proposals have been publicly discussed to limit mortgage interest deductions and to limit the exclusion of gain from the sale of a principal residence. Enactment of such proposals may have an adverse effect on the homebuilding industry in general. No meaningful prediction can be made as to whether any such proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the particular form such laws would take. Difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital could result in increased costs and delays in completion of projects. The homebuilding industry is capital-intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. Land acquisition, development and construction activities may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of financing or the unwillingness of third parties to engage in joint ventures. The Company’s current financial position may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain capital for development projects. Any difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital for planned development expenditures could cause project delays and any such delay could result in cost increases and may adversely affect the Company’s sales and future results of operations and cash flows. Financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by any decrease in the value of land inventory, as well as by the associated carrying costs. The Company continuously acquires land for replacement and expansion of land inventory within the markets in which it builds. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases, and thus, the Company may have bought and developed land on which homes cannot be profitably built and sold. The Company employs measures to manage inventory risks which may not be successful. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market, and the Company may have to sell homes at significantly lower margins or at a loss. Further, the Company may be required to write-down the book value of certain real estate assets in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and some of those write-downs could be material. 17 Table of Contents On February 24, 2012, the Company adopted fresh start accounting under ASC 852, Reorganizations, and recorded all real estate inventories at fair value. Subsequent to February 24, 2012 and throughout each quarter of 2012, there were no indicators of impairment, as sales prices and sales absorption rates have improved. For the 2012 period, there were no impairment charges recorded. During 2011, the Company incurred non-cash impairment losses on real estate assets amounting to $128.3 million. As required by U.S. GAAP, in connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases, we adopted the fresh start accounting provisions of ASC 852, Reorganizations, effective February 24, 2012. See “Risks Related to Our Emergence from Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings” for further discussion. Under ASC 852, the reorganization value represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the Company immediately after restructuring. The reorganization value is allocated to the respective fair value of assets. The Company engaged a third-party valuation firm to assist with the analysis of the fair value of the entity, and respective assets and liabilities. In conjunction with the valuation of all of the assets of the Company, the Company re-set value on certain land holdings in the early stages of development, based on: (i) “as-is” development stages of the property instead of a discounted cash flow approach, (ii) relative comparables on similar stage properties that had recently sold, on a per acre basis, and (iii) location of the property, among other factors. As a result, the Company re-valued these particular assets as of February 24, 2012, and since the date of emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases is within six weeks of year end, management made the assumption that the values are approximately the same, and recorded the book value as fair value as of December 31, 2011. Therefore, the adjustment to fair value was made on December 31, 2011, with no subsequent adjustment necessary at February 24, 2012, on these particular assets. The difference between the new value applied to the property on December 31, 2011 and the carrying value as of December 31, 2011, was recorded as impairment loss on real estate assets. In addition, the Company incurred non-cash impairment losses on real estate assets of $111.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company assesses its projects on a quarterly basis, when indicators of impairment exist. Indicators of impairment include a decrease in demand for housing due to soft market conditions, competitive pricing pressures which reduce the average sales price of homes, which includes sales incentives for home buyers, sales absorption rates below management expectations, a decrease in the value of the underlying land and a decrease in projected cash flows for a particular project. The Company was required to write down the book value of its impaired real estate assets in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment, or ASC 360. If land is not available at reasonable prices, the Company’s home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted or the Company could be required to scale back the Company’s operations in a given market. The Company’s operations depend on the Company’s ability to obtain land for the development of the Company’s residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet the Company’s underwriting criteria. The Company’s ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices given the deterioration in market conditions, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions. If the supply of land appropriate for development of residential communities continues to be limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that the Company’s homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell may continue to decline. Additionally, the ability of the Company to open new projects could be impacted if the Company elects not to purchase lots under option contracts. To the extent that the Company is unable to purchase land timely or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time the Company acquires land and the time the Company begins selling homes, the Company’s home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or the Company could be required to scale back the Company’s operations in a given market. 18 Table of Contents Adverse changes in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. The national recession, credit market disruption, high unemployment levels, the absence of home price stability, and the decreased availability of mortgage financing have, among other factors, adversely impacted the homebuilding industry and our operations and financial condition over the last several years. Although the housing market appears to be recovering in most of the geographies in which we operate, we cannot predict the pace or scope of the recovery. If market conditions deteriorate or do not improve as anticipated, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Adverse weather and geological conditions may increase costs, cause project delays and reduce consumer demand for housing, all of which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and prospects. As a homebuilder, the Company is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond management’s control, such as droughts, floods, wildfires, landslides, soil subsidence, earthquakes and other weather-related and geologic events which could damage projects, cause delays in completion of projects, or reduce consumer demand for housing, and shortages in labor or materials, which could delay project completion and cause increases in the prices for labor or materials, thereby affecting the Company’s sales and profitability. Many of the Company’s projects are located in California, which has experienced significant earthquake activity and seasonal wildfires. In addition to directly damaging the Company’s projects, earthquakes or other geologic events could damage roads and highways providing access to those projects, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s ability to market homes in those areas and possibly increasing the costs of completion. There are some risks of loss for which the Company may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be insurable and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, may not be economically insurable. A sizeable uninsured loss could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business is geographically concentrated, and therefore, the Company’s sales, results of operations, financial condition and business would be negatively impacted by a decline in regional economies. The Company presently conducts all of its business in five geographic regions: Southern California, Northern California, Arizona, Nevada and Colorado. The economic downturn in these markets has caused housing prices and sales to decline, which has caused a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition because the Company’s operations are concentrated in these geographic areas. In particular, the Company generates a significant portion of its revenue and a significant amount of its profits from, and holds approximately one-half of the dollar value of its real estate inventory in, California. Over the last several years, land values, the demand for new homes and home prices have declined substantially in California, negatively impacting the Company’s profitability and financial position. In addition, the state of California is experiencing severe budget shortfalls and is considering raising taxes and increasing fees to offset the deficit. There can be no assurance that the profitability and financial position of the Company will not be further impacted if the challenging conditions in California continue or worsen. The Company may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in the homebuilding industry. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, homebuying customers, desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. The Company competes both with large homebuilding companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing and sales resources than the Company, and with smaller local builders. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are substantially similar to our products. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We currently 19 Table of Contents build in several of the top markets in the nation and, therefore, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. The Company also competes for sales with individual resales of existing homes and with available rental housing. The Company’s success depends on key executive officers and personnel. The Company’s success is dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and in the Company’s divisional markets. In particular, the Company is dependent upon the services of General William Lyon, Chairman of the Board and Executive Chairman, William H. Lyon, Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew R. Zaist, President and Chief Operating Officer, as well as the services of the California region and other division presidents and division management teams and personnel in the corporate office. The loss of the services of any of these executives or key personnel, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Power shortages or price increases could have an adverse impact on operations. In prior years, certain areas in Northern and Southern California have experienced power shortages, including mandatory periods without electrical power, as well as significant increases in utility costs. The Company may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages and utility rate increases continue. Furthermore, power shortages and rate increases may adversely affect the regional economies in which the Company operates, which may reduce demand for housing. The Company’s operations may be adversely impacted if further rate increases and/or power shortages occur. The Company’s business and results of operations are dependent on the availability and skill of subcontractors. Substantially all construction work is done by subcontractors with the Company acting as the general contractor. Accordingly, the timing and quality of construction depend on the availability and skill of the Company’s subcontractors. While the Company has been able to obtain sufficient materials and subcontractors during times of material shortages and believes that its relationships with suppliers and subcontractors are good, the Company does not have long-term contractual commitments with any subcontractors or suppliers. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Construction defect, soil subsidence and other building-related claims may be asserted against the Company, and the Company may be subject to liability for such claims. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. California law provides that consumers can seek redress for patent (i.e., observable) defects in new homes within three or four years (depending on the type of claim asserted) from when the defect is discovered or should have been discovered. If the defect is latent (i.e., non-observable), consumers must still seek redress within three or four years (depending on the type of claim asserted) from the date when the defect is discovered or should have been discovered, but in no event later than ten years after the date of substantial completion of the work on the construction. Consumers purchasing homes in Arizona, Nevada and Colorado may also be able to obtain redress under state laws for either patent or latent defects in their new homes. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defect claims, product liability claims and related claims, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly 20 Table of Contents judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it can be difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand. Although we have obtained insurance for construction defect claims subject to applicable self-insurance retentions, such policies may not be available or adequate to cover liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding current claims, and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. Material shortages could delay or increase the cost of home construction and reduce our sales and earnings. The residential construction industry experiences serious material shortages from time to time, including shortages of insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing and during periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. From time to time, we have experienced volatile price swings in the cost of materials, including in particular, the cost of lumber, cement, steel and drywall. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which in turn could harm our operating results. The Company’s limited geographic diversification could adversely affect the Company if the homebuilding industry in our markets declines. The Company has homebuilding operations in California, Nevada, Arizona and Colorado. The Company’s limited geographic diversification could adversely impact the Company if the homebuilding business in its current markets should decline, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions. Inflation could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly in a period of oversupply of homes. Inflation can adversely affect the Company by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. However, the Company may be unable to offset these increases with higher sales prices. In addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand. In such an environment, the Company may be unable to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of cost inflation, and, accordingly, its margins could decrease. Moreover, with inflation, the purchasing power of the Company’s cash resources can decline. Efforts by the government to stimulate the economy may not be successful, but have increased the risk of significant inflation and its resulting adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business is seasonal in nature and quarterly operating results can fluctuate. The Company’s quarterly operating results generally fluctuate by season. The Company typically achieves its highest new home sales orders in the spring and summer, although new homes sales order activity is also highly dependent on the number of active selling communities and the timing of new community openings. Because it typically takes the Company three to six months to construct a new home, the Company delivers a greater number of homes in the second half of the calendar year as sales orders convert to home deliveries. As a result, the Company’s revenues from homebuilding operations are higher in the second half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter, and the Company generally experiences higher capital demands in the first half of the year when it incurs construction costs. If, due to construction delays or other causes, the Company cannot close its expected number of homes in the second half of the year, the Company’s financial condition and full year results of operations may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents The Company may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of its communities. The Company provides bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of its projects. If the Company is unable to provide required surety bonds for its projects, the Company’s business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. As a result of the deterioration in market conditions, surety providers have become increasingly reluctant to issue new bonds and some providers are requesting credit enhancements in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds. If the Company is unable to obtain required bonds in the future, or is required to provide credit enhancements with respect to its current or future bonds, the Company’s liquidity could be negatively impacted. Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverages may affect the Company’s results of operations and increase the potential exposure to liability. Recently, lawsuits have been filed against builders asserting claims of personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential dwellings. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements against these builders. The Company’s insurance may not cover all of the potential claims, including personal injury claims, arising from the presence of mold or such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage, a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could result if the Company is exposed to claims arising from the presence of mold. At this time, the Company has not received any claims from homeowners arising from the presence of mold. The cost of insurance for the Company’s operations has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased and the availability of insurance has diminished. Significant increases in the cost of insurance coverage or significant limitations on coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations from such increased costs or from liability for significant uninsurable or underinsured claims. We periodically conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. We participate in land development joint ventures, or JVs, in which we have less than a controlling interest. We have entered into JVs in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. Our JVs are typically entered into with developers, other homebuilders and financial partners to develop finished lots for sale to the JV’s members and other third parties. However, our JV investments are generally very illiquid, due to a lack of a controlling interest in the JVs. In addition, our lack of a controlling interest results in the risk that the JV will take actions that we disagree with, or fail to take actions that we desire, including actions regarding the sale of the underlying property, which could have a negative impact on our operations. The Company is the managing member in joint venture limited liability companies and may become a managing member or general partner in future joint ventures, and therefore may be liable for joint venture obligations. Certain of the Company’s active JVs are organized as limited liability companies. The Company is the managing member in some of these and may serve as the managing member or general partner, in the case of a limited partnership JV, in future JVs. As a managing member or general partner, the Company may be liable for a JV’s liabilities and obligations should the JV fail or be unable to pay these liabilities or obligations. We may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Healthcare Reform Legislation, was signed into law in the United States. The 22 Table of Contents Healthcare Reform Legislation increases the level of regulatory complexity for companies that offer health and welfare benefits to their employees. Due to the breadth and complexity of the Healthcare Reform Legislation and the staggered implementation, the uncertain timing of the regulations and limited interpretive guidance, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business over the coming years. Possible adverse effects include increased healthcare costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness The Company’s high level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations. The Company is highly leveraged and, subject to certain restrictions, Parent, California Lyon and their subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness. At March 11, 2013, the total outstanding principal amount of our debt was $344.2 million. Based on the current outstanding principal amount of debt, the Company’s annual interest payments are $28.7 million. No principal payments are required for California Lyon’s outstanding 8.5% Senior Notes due 2020, or the New Notes, until 2020 and certain construction notes are due in 2015. The Company’s high level of indebtedness could have detrimental consequences, including the following: • the ability to obtain additional financing as needed for working capital, land acquisition costs, building costs, other capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, or to refinance existing indebtedness before its scheduled maturity, may be limited; • the Company will need to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the New Notes and other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes; • if Parent or California Lyon is unable to comply with the terms of the agreements governing the indebtedness of the Company, the holders of that indebtedness could accelerate that indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against the Company; and • if the Company has a higher level of indebtedness than some of its competitors, it may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and reduce the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition. The Company cannot be certain that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow the Company to pay principal and interest on debt, support operations and meet other obligations. If the Company does not have the resources to meet these and other obligations, the Company may be required to refinance all or part of the existing debt, including the New Notes, sell assets or borrow more money. The Company may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. The indenture governing the New Notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent Parent and its subsidiaries from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The indenture governing the New Notes, or the Indenture, impose significant operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions limit the ability of Parent, California Lyon and their subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain equity interests; • pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity or prepay subordinated debt; • make certain investments; • sell assets; • incur liens; 23 Table of Contents • create certain restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to transfer assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. In addition, Parent or its subsidiaries may in the future enter into other agreements refinancing or otherwise governing indebtedness which impose yet additional restrictions. These restrictions may adversely affect Parent’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Over the past few years, the rating agencies have downgraded the Company’s corporate credit rating due to the deterioration in our homebuilding operations, credit metrics, other earnings-based metrics, because the Company is highly leveraged and the significant decrease in our tangible net worth. These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. Our credit ratings could be further lowered or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in a credit rating downgrade or change in outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing. The current corporate credit rating from the ratings agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s is ‘Caa2’ and ‘B-’, respectively. Risks Related to Our Emergence from Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings We cannot be certain that the bankruptcy proceedings will not adversely affect our operations going forward. We emerged from bankruptcy on February 25, 2012. The full extent to which our bankruptcy will impact our business operations, reputation and relationships with our customers, employees, regulators and agents may not be known for some time, and there may be adverse ongoing effects associated with our voluntary petitions, or the Chapter 11 Petitions, under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, or the Bankruptcy Code. Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, and investors should not rely on the projections. Neither the projected financial information that we previously filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, or Bankruptcy Court, in connection with the Chapter 11 Petitions nor the financial information included in the disclosure statement for the Plan filed with, and approved by, the Bankruptcy Court, or the Disclosure Statement, should be considered or relied on in connection with the purchase of our securities. We were required to prepare projected financial information and include certain of such information in the Disclosure Statement to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court and creditor classes voting on the Plan the feasibility of the Plan and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from the Chapter 11 Petitions. The projections reflect numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results will vary, potentially significantly, from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons. Furthermore, the projections were limited by the information available to us as of the date of the 24 Table of Contents preparation of the projections. These projections have since been updated in relation to our adoption of fresh start accounting in conjunction with the confirmation of the Plan. Therefore, variations from the projections may be material, and investors should not rely on such projections. Because of the adoption of Debtor in Possession Accounting, financial information for the period from December 19, 2011 through February 24, 2012 will not be comparable to financial information prior to or subsequent to the debtor in possession accounting period. Upon filing the Chapter 11 Petitions, we adopted Debtor in Possession Accounting, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification No. 852, Reorganizations. Accordingly, our financial statements for the period from December 19, 2011 through February 24, 2012 will not be comparable in many respects to our financial statements prior to December 19, 2011 or subsequent to February 24, 2012. The lack of comparable historical financial information may discourage investors from purchasing our securities. Because of the adoption of Fresh Start Accounting and the effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan, financial information subsequent to February 24, 2012 will not be comparable to financial information prior to February 24, 2012. Upon our emergence from the Chapter 11 Petitions, we adopted Fresh Start Accounting, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification No. 852, Reorganizations, pursuant to which the midpoint of the range of our reorganization value was allocated to our assets in conformity with the procedures specified by Accounting Standards Codification No. 805, Business Combinations. Accordingly, our financial statements subsequent to February 24, 2012 will not be comparable in many respects to our financial statements prior to February 24, 2012. The lack of comparable historical financial information may discourage investors from purchasing our securities. Regulatory Risks Governmental laws and regulations may increase the Company’s expenses, limit the number of homes that the Company can build or delay completion of projects. The Company is subject to numerous local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction and similar matters which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Projects that are not entitled may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. The Company may also be subject to periodic delays or may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities due to building moratoriums or “slow-growth” or “no-growth” initiatives that could be implemented in the future in the states in which the Company operates. Local and state governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which the Company has received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety, and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result, home sales could decline and costs increase, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations, which may increase costs, limit the areas in which the Company can build homes and delay completion of projects. The Company is also subject to a variety of local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause the Company to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict 25 Table of Contents homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. Under various environmental laws, current or former owners of real estate, as well as certain other categories of parties, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, in those cases where an endangered species is involved, environmental rules and regulations can result in the elimination of development in identified environmentally sensitive areas. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Capital Stock Concentration of ownership of the voting power of our capital stock may prevent other stockholders from influencing corporate decisions and create perceived conflicts of interest. Luxor Capital Group, or Luxor, William H. Lyon, and Paulson & Co. Inc., or Paulson, hold significant ownership interests in the Company, which may allow them to dictate the outcome of certain corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As of March 11, 2013, entities affiliated with Luxor hold 29.7% of the Class A Common Stock, 95.9% of the Class C Common Stock and 79.9% of the Convertible Preferred Stock, which provides Luxor with 37.1% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. As of March 11, 2013, William H. Lyon, through his management of Lyon Shareholder 2012, LLC, holds 100% of the Class B Common Stock and a warrant to purchase 15,737,294 additional shares of Class B Common Stock, which, in addition to 24,199 shares of Class A Common Stock held by The William Harwell Lyon Separate Property Trust, provides William H. Lyon with 36.1% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. As of March 11, 2013, entities affiliated with Paulson hold 21.7% of the Class A Common stock and 15.8% of the Convertible Preferred Stock, which provides Paulson with 10.4% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. See Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” On all matters on which the holders of our common stock are entitled to vote, prior to the occurrence of both the Conversion Date and the conversion of all Class) B Common Stock, each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, with the exception of our Class B Common Stock, which is entitled to two votes per share. Additionally, prior to the Conversion Date and while any shares of Class B Common Stock remain outstanding, the board of directors will include two directors elected by the holders of Class A Common Stock, two directors elected by the holders of Class B Common Stock and Class D Common Stock, voting together as a class, three directors elected by the holders of Class C Common Stock and Convertible Preferred Stock, voting together as a class, and one director elected by the holders of (i) 66 2/3% of the Class A Common Stock, voting separately as a class, (ii) the majority of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, and (iii) the majority of the Class C Common Stock and Convertible Preferred Stock, voting together as a separate class. In light of these and other voting rules provided in the Company’s Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or the Certificate of Incorporation, and described in greater detail in Item 10 of Part III of this Annual Report, “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Board of Directors,” Luxor, Paulson and William H. Lyon may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing certain corporate decisions. Luxor, Paulson and William H. Lyon may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This ownership concentration may adversely impact the trading of our capital stock because of a perceived conflict of interest that may exist, thereby depressing the value of our capital stock. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and may negatively impact the holders’ investment. We may issue additional capital stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, capital stock or any substantially similar securities. In addition, with the applicable consent of the holders of our Convertible Preferred Stock, we may issue additional preferred stock. 26 Table of Contents Under our Certificate of Incorporation, we are authorized to issue 340,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock; 50,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock; 120,000,000 shares of Class C Common Stock; 30,000,000 shares of Class D Common Stock; and 80,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 11, 2013, we had (i) 70,121,378 shares of Class A Common Stock issued and outstanding, (ii) 31,464,548 shares of Class B Common Stock issued and outstanding, which can be converted into 31,464,548 shares of Class A Common Stock, (iii) 16,020,338 shares of Class C Common Stock issued and outstanding, which can be converted into 16,020,338 shares of Class A Common Stock, (iv) 5,501,432 shares of Class D Common Stock issued and outstanding, and (v) 77,005,744 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding, which can be converted into shares of either our Class A Common Stock or Class C Common Stock (depending on the circumstances of the conversion). Accordingly, the Class B Common Stock, Class C Common Stock and Convertible Preferred Stock, if converted, will have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Class A Common Stock and, potentially, on our Class C Common Stock. Further, if we issue additional shares of capital stock in the future and do not issue shares to all then-existing common and/or preferred stockholders in proportion to their interests, the issuance will result in dilution to each stockholder. Additionally, as of March 11, 2013, there is a warrant outstanding exercisable for an additional 15,737,294 shares of Class B Common Stock. This warrant, if exercised, and if subsequently converted into shares of our Class A Common Stock, would also have a dilutive effect on our Class A Common Stock. As of March 11, 2013, we also have outstanding stock options to purchase 4,757,303 shares of the Company’s Class D Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.05 per share. To the extent these options are exercised, there will be further dilution. The requirements of being a reporting company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to public disclosure are creating uncertainty for reporting companies. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to enable the Company to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have begun the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures in order to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our 27 Table of Contents internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2013. We and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and could, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention or improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require additional personnel, specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and require a significant period of time to complete. We may become subject to certain corporate governance requirements, which may result in increased costs to us and affect our ability to attract or retain board members and executive officers. We may incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under rules implemented by the SEC or any stock exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which our capital stock may be listed in the future. The expenses incurred by companies for corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically in recent years. We expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are unable to currently estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. We also expect that these rules and regulations may make it difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and if we are able to obtain such insurance, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain such coverage. Further, our board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our capital stock. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws, or the Bylaws, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include the following provisions: • that after the Conversion Date (as defined in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation), any action to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • that after the Conversion Date, special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of our board of directors, or our President; • following the later of the Conversion Date and the date on which all of the shares of our Class B Common Stock have been converted into shares of Class A Common Stock, or the Specified Date, our directors may not be removed without cause; • that from and after the Specified Date, vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director or by the stockholders entitled to vote at any annual or special meeting held in accordance with Article II of the Bylaws; and • the approval of a supermajority of our outstanding shares of capital stock is required to amend certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation. These provisions may frustrate or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because our parent entity is incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related Specifically to Common Stock There is currently no public trading market for our common stock and a trading market may not develop, making it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. There is currently no public trading market for our common stock. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate an investment in our common stock. As a result, investors: (i) may be precluded from transferring their shares of common stock; (ii) may have to hold their shares of common stock for an indefinite period of time; and (iii) must be able to bear the complete economic risk of losing their investment in us. In the event a market for our common stock should develop, there can be no assurance that the market price will equal or exceed the price paid for any of the shares offered herein. In addition, we intend for our stock to be traded over-the-counter on the OTCBB. Over-the-counter transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on a securities exchange. Many over-the-counter securities trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than exchange-listed securities. Accordingly, our common stock may be less liquid than it would otherwise be and may be difficult to sell. Also, the value of our common stock may be more volatile than exchange-listed securities. In addition, issuers of securities traded on the OTCBB do not have to meet the same specific quantitative and qualitative listing and maintenance standards. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not plan to do so in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Further, the payment of cash dividends is restricted under the terms of our Amended Term Loan Agreement. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. Our issued and outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. As of March 11, 2013, there were 77,005,744 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. Our Convertible Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. For instance, the Convertible Preferred Stock ranks senior and prior to the common stock with respect to payment of dividends, redemption payments and rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company. Risks Related Specifically to Preferred Stock An active trading market for the Convertible Preferred Stock does not exist and may not develop. The Convertible Preferred Stock has no established trading market. Until the maturity date of the Convertible Preferred Stock, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares of Convertible Preferred Stock in the secondary market or converting their shares of Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of common stock and subsequently seeking to sell those shares of common stock. In the event a market should develop for the Convertible Preferred Stock, there can be no assurance that the market price will equal or exceed the price paid for any of the shares offered herein. We may not be able to repurchase the Convertible Preferred Stock when required. To the extent not previously converted to common stock, the Company will be required to redeem all the then outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock on the fifteenth anniversary of the date of first issuance of Convertible Preferred Stock, or the Maturity Date. We may not have sufficient funds at the Maturity Date to make the required repurchases or our ability to make such repurchases may be restricted by the terms of our other 29 Table of Contents debt then outstanding. The source of funds for any repurchase required at the Maturity Date will be our available cash or cash generated from operating activities or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We cannot assure you, however, that sufficient funds will be available or that the terms of our other debt then outstanding will permit us at the time of any such events to make any required repurchases of the Convertible Preferred Stock. Furthermore, the use of available cash to fund the repurchase of the Convertible Preferred Stock may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. The market price of the Convertible Preferred Stock may be directly affected by the market price of our Class A Common Stock and our Class C Common Stock, which may be volatile. To the extent that a secondary market for the Convertible Preferred Stock develops, because the Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into Class A Common Stock or Class C Common Stock upon the occurrence of certain events and/or conditions, we believe that the market price of the Convertible Preferred Stock will be significantly affected by the market price of our Class A Common Stock and Class C Common Stock, as applicable. Because there is currently no market for our Class A Common Stock and Class C Common Stock, we cannot predict how the shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class C Common Stock will trade in the future. This may result in greater volatility in the market price of the Convertible Preferred Stock than would be expected for non-convertible stock. The Convertible Preferred Stock has not been rated. The Convertible Preferred Stock has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. This factor may affect the trading price of the Convertible Preferred Stock. Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock do not have identical rights as the holders of common stock until they acquire the common stock, but will be subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. Except for voting and dividend rights, the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock have no rights with respect to the common stock until conversion of their Convertible Preferred Stock, but such stockholders’ investment in the Convertible Preferred Stock may be negatively affected by such events. Even though the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock vote on an as-converted basis with the holders of the common stock, upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, holders will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of common stock only as to matters for which the record date occurs on or after the applicable conversion date and only to the extent permitted by law, although holders will be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences, or special rights of common stock that may occur as a result of any shareholder action taken before the applicable conversion date. Other Risks The Company may not be able to benefit from net operating loss, or NOL carryforwards. At December 31, 2012, the Company had gross federal and state net operating loss carryforwards totaling approximately $243.8 million and $508.3 million, respectively. Federal net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2028 and state net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2013. In addition, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had unused federal and state built-in losses of $42.1 million and $27.9 million, respectively, which expire in 2017. The Company has also has alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit carryforwards of $2.7 million which do not expire. We have fully reserved against our net deferred tax assets, including the NOL carryforward, due to the possibility that we may not have taxable income and the limitations required under the Internal Revenue Code, or IRC, Sections 382 and 383. 30 Table of Contents Our emergence from Chapter 11 proceedings may limit our ability to offset future U.S. taxable income with tax losses and credits incurred prior to emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. In connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, we were able to retain a portion of our U.S. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, or the “Tax Attributes.” However, Internal Revenue Code, or IRC, Sections 382 and 383 provide an annual limitation with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its Tax Attributes against future U.S. taxable income in the event of a change in ownership. Our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings is considered a change in ownership for purposes of IRC Section 382 and our annual Section 382 limitation is approximately $4.0 million. As a result, our future U.S. taxable income may not be fully offset by the Tax Attributes if such income exceeds our annual limitation, and we may incur a tax liability with respect to such income. In addition, subsequent changes in ownership for purposes of the IRC could further diminish our ability to utilize Tax Attributes. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the armed conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, may cause disruption to the economy, our Company, our employees and our customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 