Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing our company, you should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Factors that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock, include those discussed below, as well as those discussed above in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. We are subject to the following significant risks, among others: We may need to raise more cash in the future We have almost always had negative cash flows from operations. Our business will continue to result in a substantial requirement for research and development expenses for several years, during which we may not be able to bring in sufficient cash and/or revenues to offset these expenses. We will likely be required to raise capital from one or more sources in the future to continue funding our operations to profitability. We do not currently believe that our cash balance and the revenues from our operations will be sufficient to fund the development and marketing efforts required to reach profitability without raising additional capital from accessible sources of financing in the future. In addition, our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation, S ilicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance Corporation requires us to maintain certain minimum cash requirements, and if our cash reserves fall below those minimum requirements, then we could be in default under our loan agreement and subject to potential adverse remedies by the lenders, which would have a substantial and material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, the value of our common stock and warrants and our ability to raise capital. There is no guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed from additional debt or equity financing, arrangements with development and commercialization partners, increased results of operations, or from other sources, or on terms attractive to us. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional funds in the future would, at a minimum, require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our research or product development, manufacturing operations, clinical or regulatory activities, which could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Continued turmoil in the economy could harm our business Negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from an actual or perceived recession, tightening credit markets, increased cost of commodities, including oil, actual or threatened military action by the United States and threats of terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, could cause a reduction of investment in and available funding for companies in certain industries, including ours. Our ability to raise capital has been and may in the future be adversely affected by downturns in current credit conditions, financial markets and the global economy. We have never been profitable on an operational basis and expect significant operating losses for the next few years We have incurred net operating losses in each year since we started business. As our focus on the Celution® System platform and development of therapeutic applications for its cellular output has increased, losses have resulted primarily from expenses associated with research and development activities and general and administrative expenses. While we work continuously to implement cost reduction measures where possible, we nonetheless expect to continue operating in a loss position on a consolidated basis and that recurring operating expenses will be at high levels for the next several years, in order to perform clinical trials, additional pre-clinical research, product development, and marketing. As a result of our histo ric losses, we have been, and are likely to continue to be, reliant on raising outside capital to fund our operations as discussed in the prior risk factor. 13 Our business strategy is high-risk We are focusing our resources and efforts primarily on development of the Celution® System family of products and the therapeutic applications of its cellular output, which requires extensive cash needs for research, development, and commercialization activities. This is a high-risk strategy because there is no assurance that our products will ever become commercially viable (commercial risk), that we will prevent other companies from depriving us of market share and profit margins by selling products based on our inventions and developments (legal risk), that we will successfully manage a company in a new area of business (regenerative medicine) and on a different scale than we have operated in the past (operational risk), that we will be able to achieve the desired therapeutic results using stem and regenerative cells (scientific risk), or that our cash resources will be adequate to develop our products until we become profitable, if ever (financial risk). We are using our cash in one of the riskiest industries in the economy (strategic risk). This may make our stock an unsuitable investment for many investors. We must keep our joint venture with Olympus operating smoothly Our business depends in part on keeping our Joint Venture collaboration with Olympus operating smoothly and efficiently. We have given Olympus-Cytori, Inc. an exclusive license to manufacture future generation Celution® System devices. If Olympus-Cytori, Inc. does not successfully develop and manufacture these devices, we may not be able to commercialize these devices successfully into the market. In addition, future disruption or breakup of our relationship would be extremely costly to our reputation, in addition to causing many serious practical problems. We and Olympus must overcome contractual and cultural barriers. Although our relationship is formally measured by a set of complex contracts, many aspects of the relationship will be non-contractual and must be worked out between the parties and the responsible individuals. The Joint Venture is intended to have a long life, and it is difficult to maintain cooperative relationships over a long period of time in the face of various kinds of change. Cultural differences, including language barrier to some degree, may affect the efficiency of the relationship. Olympus-Cytori, Inc. is 50% owned by us and 50% owned by Olympus. By contract, each side must consent before any of a wide variety of important business actions can occur. This situation possesses a risk of potentially time-consuming and difficult negotiations which could at some point delay the Joint Venture from pursuing its business strategies. Olympus is entitled to designate the Joint Venture's chief executive officer and a majority of its board of directors, which means that day-to-day decisions which are not subject to a contractual veto will essentially be controlled by Olympus. In addition, Olympus-Cytori, Inc. may require more money than its current capitalization in order to complete development and production of future generation devices. If we are unable to help provide future financing for Olympus-Cytori, Inc., our relative equity interest in Olympus-Cytori, Inc. may decrease. Furthermore, under a License/Joint Development Agreement among Olympus-Cytori, Inc., Olympus, and us, Olympus will have a primary role in the development of Olympus-Cytori, Inc.’s next generation devices. Although Olympus has extensive experience in developing medical devices, this arrangement will result in a reduction of our control over the development and manufacturing of the next generation devices. We have a limited operating history; operating results and stock price can be volatile like many life science companies Our prospects must be evaluated in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by emerging companies and particularly by such companies in rapidly evolving and technologically advanced biotech and medical device fields. From time to time, we have tried to update our investors’ expectations as to our operating results by periodically announcing financial guidance. However, we have in the past been forced to revise or withdraw such guidance due to lack of visibility and predictability of product demand. 14 We are vulnerable to competition and technological change, and also to physicians’ inertia We compete with many domestic and foreign companies in developing our technology and products, including biotechnology, medical device, and pharmaceutical companies. Many current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing, and personnel resources. There is no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing alternative products that are more effective, easier to use, or more economical than those which we have developed or are in the process of developing, or that would render our products obsolete and non-competitive. In general, we may not be able to prevent others from developing and marketing competitive products similar to ours or which perform similar functions. Competitors may have greater experience in developing therapies or devices, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, manufacturing and commercialization. It is possible that competitors may obtain patent protection, approval, or clearance from the FDA or achieve commercialization earlier than we can, any of which could have a substantial negative effect on our business. Finally, Olympus and our other partners might pursue parallel development of other technologies or products, which may result in a partner developing additional products competitive with ours. We compete against cell-based therapies derived from alternate sources, such as bone marrow, umbilical cord blood and potentially embryos. Doctors historically are slow to adopt new technologies like ours, whatever the merits, when older technologies continue to be supported by established providers. Overcoming such inertia often requires very significant marketing expenditures or definitive product performance and/or pricing superiority. We expect physicians’ inertia and skepticism to also be a significant barrier as we attempt to gain market penetration with our future products. We believe we will need to finance lengthy time-consuming clinical studies (so as to provide convincing evidence of the medical benefit) in order to overcome this inertia and skepticism particularly in reconstructive surgery, cell preservation, the cardiovascular area and many other indications. Most potential applications of our technology are pre-commercialization, which subjects us to development and marketing risks We are in a relatively early stage of the path to commercialization with many of our products. We believe that our long-term viability and growth will depend in large part on our ability to develop commercial quality cell processing devices and useful procedure-specific consumables, and to establish the safety and efficacy of our therapies through clinical trials and studies. With our Celution® System platform, we are pursuing new approaches for reconstructive surgery, preservation of stem and regenerative cells for potential future use, therapies for cardiovascular disease, gastrointestinal disorders and spine and orthopedic conditions. There is no assurance that our development programs will be successfully completed or that required regulatory clearances or approvals will be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. There is no proven path for commercializing the Celution® System platform in a way to earn a durable profit commensurate with the medical benefit. Although we began to commercialize our reconstructive surgery products in Europe and certain Asian markets, and our cell banking products in Japan, Europe, and certain Asian markets in 2008, additional market opportunities for our products and/or services are likely to be another two to four years away. Successful development and market acceptance of our products is subject to developmental risks, including failure of inventive imagination, ineffectiveness, lack of safety, unreliability, failure to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, high commercial cost, preclusion or obsolescence resulting from third parties’ proprietary rights or superior or equivalent products, competition from copycat products, and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. There is no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop and commercialize our products, or that our competitors will not develop competing technologies that are less expensive or superior. Failure to successfully develop and market our products would have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and f inancial condition. Future clinical trial results may differ significantly from our expectations While our early clinical trial results so far have been very positive, and we have proceeded incrementally in the our these clinical trials in an effort to gauge the risks of proceeding with larger and more expensive trials, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience negative results in these larger and much more expensive clinical trials, such as the new ADVANCE acute heart attack trial in Europe. Poor results in our clinical trials could result in substantial delays in commercialization, substantial negative effects on the perception of our products, and substantial additional costs. These risks are increased by our reliance on third parties in the performance of many of the clinical trial functions, including the clinical investigators, hospitals, and other third party service providers. 15 The timing and amount of Thin Film revenues from Senko are uncertain The sole remaining product line in our MacroPore Biosurgery segment is our Japan Thin Film business. Our right to receive royalties from Senko, and to recognize certain deferred revenues, depends on the timing of MHLW approval for commercialization of the product in Japan. We have no control over this timing and our previous expectations have not been met. Also, even after commercialization, we will be dependent on Senko, our exclusive distributor, to drive product sales in Japan. We have limited manufacturing experience We have limited experience in manufacturing the Celution® System platform or its consumables at a commercial level. With respect to our Joint Venture, although Olympus is a highly capable and experienced manufacturer of medical devices, there can be no guarantee that the Olympus-Cytori Joint Venture will be able to successfully develop and manufacture the next generation Celution® System in a manner that is cost-effective or commercially viable, or that development and manufacturing capabilities might not take much longer than currently anticipated to be ready for the market. Although we have begun introduction of the Celution® 800 and the StemSource® 900-based Cell Bank in 2008, we cannot assure that we will be able to manufacture sufficient numbers of such products to meet the demand, or that we will be able to overcome unforeseen manufacturing difficulties for these sophisticated medical devices, as we await the availability of the Joint Venture next generation Celution® System. In the event that the Olympus-Cytori Joint Venture is not successful, Cytori may not have the resources or ability to self-manufacture sufficient numbers of devices and consumables to meet market demand, and this failure may substantially extend the time it would take for us to bring a more advanced commercial device to market. This makes us significantly dependant on the continued dedication and skill of Olympus for the successful development of the next generation Celution® System. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights Our success depends in part on whether we can maintain our existing patents, obtain additional patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will be approved or that we will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. There is also no assurance that any patents issued to us will not become the subject of a re-examination, will provide us with competitive advantages, will not be challenged by any third parties, or that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technology. Furthermore, there can be no guarantee that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products, or design around our patents. Our commercial success will also depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing on patents issued to others. If we were judicially determined to be infringing on any third-party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, or cease certain activities. If we are required in the future to obtain any licenses from third parties for some of our products, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to do so on commercially favorable terms, if at all. U.S. patent applications are not immediately made public, so we might be surprised by the grant to someone else of a patent on a technology we are actively using. As noted above and in the case of the University of Pittsburgh lawsuit, even patents issued to us or our licensors might be judiciall y determined to belong in full or in part to third parties. Litigation, which would result in substantial costs to us and diversion of effort on our part, may be necessary to enforce or confirm the ownership of any patents issued or licensed to us, or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and prepare and file patent applications in the United States, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs to and diversion of effort, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Any such litigation or interference proceeding, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time-consuming. Successful challenges to our patents through oppositions, reexamination proceedings or interference proceedings could result in a loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If we are unsuccessful in actions we bring against the patents of other parties and it is determined that we infringe the patents of third-parties, we may be subject to litigation, or otherwise prevented from commercializing potential products in the relevant jurisdiction, or may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or develop or obtain alternative technologies, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, if such challenges to our patent rights are not resolved in our favor, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into new collaborations or from commercializing certain products, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 Competitors or third parties may infringe our patents. We may be required to file patent infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or that the third party’s technology does not in fact infringe upon our patents. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our related pending patent applications at risk of not issuing. Litigation may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries outside the U.S. where patent righ ts may be more difficult to enforce. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential or sensitive information could be compromised by disclosure in the event of litigation. In addition, during the course of litigation there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition to patents, which alone may not be able to protect the fundamentals of our regenerative cell business, we also rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise. Some of our intended future cell-related therapeutic products may fit into this category. We rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our partners, employees, advisors, vendors, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise. There can be no guarantee that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our unpatented trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Our amended regenerative cell technology license agreement with the Regents of the University of California (UC) which includes issued U.S. patent number 7,470,537, contains certain developmental milestones, which if not achieved could result in the loss of exclusivity or loss of the license rights. The loss of such rights could impact our ability to develop certain regenerative cell technology products. Also, our power as licensee to successfully use these rights to exclude competitors from the market is untested. Failure to obtain or maintain patent protection, or protect trade secrets, for any reason (or third-party claims against our patents, trade secrets, or proprietary rights, or our involvement in disputes over our patents, trade secrets, or proprietary rights, including involvement in litigation), could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property in countries outside the United States Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revisions. The laws of some countries do not protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. This is particularly relevant to us as most of our current commercial product sales and clinical trials are outside of the United States. Third parties may attempt to oppose the issuance of patents to us in foreign countries by initiating opposition proceedings. Opposition proceedings against any of our patent filings in a foreign country could have an adverse effect on our corresponding patents that are issued or pending in the United States. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our p atents or our competitors’ patents that have been issued in countries other than the U.S. This could result in substantial costs, divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We currently have pending patent applications in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada, China, Korea, and Singapore, among others. We and Olympus-Cytori, Inc. are subject to FDA regulation As newly developed medical devices, the Celution® System family of products must receive regulatory clearances or approvals from the FDA and, in many instances, from non-U.S. and state governments prior to their sale. The Celution® System family of products is subject to stringent government regulation in the United States by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA regulates the design/development process, clinical testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, sale, distribution, and promotion of medical devices and drugs. Included among these regulations are pre-market clearance and pre-market approval requirements, design control requirements, and the Quality System Regulations/Good Manufacturing Practices. Other statutory and regulatory requirements govern, among other things, establishment registration and inspection, medical device listing, prohibitions against misbranding and adulteration, labeling and post-market reporting. 17 The regulatory process can be lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. Before any new medical device may be introduced to the U.S. market, the manufacturer generally must obtain FDA clearance or approval through either the 510(k) pre-market notification process or the lengthier pre-market approval application, or PMA, process. It generally takes from three to 12 months from submission to obtain 510(k) pre-market clearance, although it may take longer. Approval of a PMA could take four or more years from the time the process is initiated. The 510(k) and PMA processes can be expensive, uncertain, and lengthy, and there is no guarantee of ultimate clearance or approval. We expect that some of our future products under development as well as Olympus-Cytori’s will be subject to the length ier PMA process. Securing FDA clearances and approvals may require the submission of extensive clinical data and supporting information to the FDA, and there can be no guarantee of ultimate clearance or approval. Failure to comply with applicable requirements can result in application integrity proceedings, fines, recalls or seizures of products, injunctions, civil penalties, total or partial suspensions of production, withdrawals of existing product approvals or clearances, refusals to approve or clear new applications or notifications, and criminal prosecution. Medical devices are also subject to post-market reporting requirements for deaths or serious injuries when the device may have caused or contributed to the death or serious injury, and for certain device malfunctions that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. If safety or effectiveness problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may take steps to prevent or limit further marketing of the product. Additionally, the FDA actively enforces regulations prohibiting marketing and promotion of devices for indications or uses that have not been cleared or approved by the FDA. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the necessary 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals to market and manufacture our other products in the United States for their intended use on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To sell in international markets, we will be subject to regulation in foreign countries In cooperation with our distribution partners, we intend to market our current and future products both domestically and in many foreign markets. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. In order for us to market our products in Europe, Canada, Japan and certain other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. For example, we still have not obtained regulatory approval for our Thin Film products in Japan. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. International sales also may be limited or disrupted by political instability, price controls , trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect demand for our products by increasing the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in all of the countries where we intend to market our products, or that we will not incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances, or that we will be able to successfully commercialize current or future products in various foreign markets. Delays in receipt of approvals or clearances to market our products in foreign countries, failure to receive such approvals or clearances or the future loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changing, New and/or Emerging Government Regulations Government regulations can change without notice. Given the fact that Cytori operates in various international markets, our access to such markets could change with little to no warning due to a change in government regulations that suddenly up-regulate our product(s) and create greater regulatory burden for our cell therapy and cell banking technology products. Due to the fact that there are new and emerging cell therapy and cell banking regulations that have recently been drafted and/or implemented in various countries around the world, the application and subsequent implementation of these new and emerging regulations have little to no precedence. Therefore, the level of complexity and stringency is not known and may vary from country to country, creating greater uncertainty for the international regulatory process. 18 Anticipated or unanticipated changes in the way or manner in which the FDA regulates products or classes/groups of products can delay, further burden, or alleviate regulatory pathways that were once available to other products. There are no guarantees that such changes in FDA’s approach to the regulatory process will not deleteriously affect some or all of our products or product applications. We do not know if the current FDA proposed changes to the 510(k) system will have any material effect on any of our current or future 510(k) applications. Health Insurance Reimbursement Risks New and emerging cell therapy and cell banking technologies, such as those provided by the Celution® System family of products, may have difficulty or encounter significant delays in obtaining health care reimbursement in some or all countries around the world due to the novelty of our cell therapy and cell banking technology and subsequent lack of existing reimbursement schemes / pathways. Therefore, the creation of new reimbursement pathways may be complex and lengthy with no assurances that such reimbursements will be successful. The lack of health insurance reimbursement or reduced or minimal reimbursement pricing may have a significant impact on our ability to successfully sell our cell therapy and cell banking technology product(s) int o a county or region. Concentration of Sales We have a significant concentration of sales in Japan, the United States, and Europe given our early stage of commercialization. As a result of this regional concentration of sales, changes in the regulatory environment in these countries, or any other countries in which we have a significant concentration of sales, could adversely impact our sales. If the government of any of these countries significantly curtailed or prohibited the sale of our products, our revenues would be adversely affected. Market Acceptance of New Technology New and emerging cell therapy and cell banking technologies, such as those provided by the Celution® System family of products, may have difficulty or encounter significant delays in obtaining market acceptance in some or all countries around the world due to the novelty of our cell therapy and cell banking technologies. Therefore, the market adoption of our cell therapy and cell banking technologies may be slow and lengthy with no assurances that significant market adoption will be successful. The lack of market adoption or reduced or minimal market adoption of our cell therapy and cell banking technologies may have a significant impact on our ability to successfully sell our product(s) into a country or region. We and/or the Joint Venture have to maintain quality assurance certification and manufacturing approvals The manufacture of our Celution® System will be, and the manufacture of any future cell-related therapeutic products would be, subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and distribution partners. The manufacture of devices and products for human use is subject to regulation and inspection from time to time by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, as well as equivalent requirements and inspections by state and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. There can be no guarantee that the FDA or other authorities will not, during the course of an inspection of existing or new facilities, identify what they consider to be deficiencies in our compliance with QSRs or other require ments and request, or seek remedial action. Failure to comply with such regulations or a potential delay in attaining compliance may adversely affect our manufacturing activities and could result in, among other things, injunctions, civil penalties, FDA refusal to grant pre-market approvals or clearances of future or pending product submissions, fines, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspensions of production, and criminal prosecution. There can be no assurance after such occurrences that we will be able to obtain additional necessary regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals or clearances, or the loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a few key officers Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and other key scientific and sales staff, including Christopher J. Calhoun, our Chief Executive Officer, and Marc Hedrick, MD, our President. We rely upon them for strategic business decisions and guidance. We believe that our future success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend in large part upon whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key scientific staff or the inability to attract and retain additional personne l and develop expertise as needed could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 We may not have enough product liability insurance The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of our regenerative cell products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us, our distribution partners, or licensees. There can be no guarantee that our clinical trial and commercial product liability insurance is adequate or will continue to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost, if at all. A product liability claim, product recall, or other claim, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, well-publicized claims could cause our stock to fall sharply, even before the merits of the claims are decided by a court. Our charter documents contain anti-takeover provisions and we have adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan to prevent hostile takeovers Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could prevent or delay the acquisition of Cytori by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, or otherwise. They could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of Cytori, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Such provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control of Cytori and consequently could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Also, in 2003 we adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan of the kind often referred to as a poison pill. The purpose of the Stockholder Rights Plan is to prevent coercive takeover tactics that may otherwise be utilized in takeover attempts. The existence of such a rights plan may al so prevent or delay a change in control of Cytori, and this prevention or delay adversely affect the market price of our shares. We pay no dividends We have never paid cash dividends in the past, and currently do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 