ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. INVESTING IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS AND ALL OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT BEFORE PURCHASING SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND/OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. IN THAT CASE, THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE, AND YOU MAY LOSE SOME OR ALL OF YOUR INVESTMENT. Risks Related to Our Business We will need additional funding to support our operations and capital expenditures. Such funds may not be available to us, which lack of availability could reduce our operating income, product development and enhancement efforts and future business prospects. While we have historically funded our working capital needs through operations, the sale of equity and debt interests and through capital contributions from related parties, we will need additional capital to fund our operations, pursue business opportunities (such as acquisitions of complementary businesses and the introduction of new products), react to unforeseen difficulties and/or respond to competitive pressures. If our capital resources prove insufficient, we will need to raise additional funds. We currently have no committed sources of additional capital, and there can be no assurance that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities may result in additional dilution to existing shareholders. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate material parts of the implementation of our business strategy. This limitation would impede our growth and could result in a contraction of our operations, which would reduce our operating income, product development and enhancement efforts and future business prospects. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to continue as a going concern if we do not successfully raise additional capital or if our sales decrease substantially. If we are unable to successfully raise the capital we need, or experience significant reductions in sales, we may need to reduce the scope of our business to fully satisfy our future short-term liquidity requirements. If we cannot raise additional capital or reduce the scope of our business, we may be otherwise unable to achieve our goals or continue our operations. As discussed in Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have incurred losses from operations in the prior two years and have a working capital deficiency. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, our auditors have included in their report on our financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2008 an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. While we believe that the recent change in our management will result in our return to profitable operations through our new product offerings and cost cutting practices, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in these efforts or will be able to eliminate our working capital deficit or operating losses. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly based on customer and Affiliate acceptance of our products. Management expects that we will experience substantial variations in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter due to customer acceptance of our products. We rely on sales by our Affiliates to generate significant revenues for us. If customers don’t accept our products, our sales and revenues would decline, resulting in a reduction in our operating income. Customer interest for our products could also be impacted by the timing of our introduction of new products. If our competitors introduce new products or free products around the same time that we issue new products, and if such competing products are superior to our own, customers’ desire for our products could decrease, resulting in a decrease in our sales and revenues. To the extent that we introduce new products and customers decide not to migrate to our new products from our older products, our revenues could be negatively impacted due to the loss of revenue from those customers. In the event that our newer products do not sell as well as our older products, we could also experience a reduction in our revenues and operating income. As a result of fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses that may occur, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. If we do not successfully generate additional products and services, or if such products and services are developed but not successfully commercialized, we could lose revenue opportunities. Currently, our primary business is the sale of our Studio suite of products to our Affiliates. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our product and service offerings. To that end we have engaged in the process of identifying new product opportunities to provide additional products and related services to our customers, and intend to launch F5 in March 2009. The process of identifying and commercializing new products is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We may have to commit significant resources to commercializing F5 and other new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on commercializing those products because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and a reduction in net sales and earnings. The success of F5 and other new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. 15 Table of Contents While we previously achieved an operating profit, we have a history of operating losses and there can be no assurance that we can achieve, maintain or increase profitability. While we previously achieved operating profits, we did not achieve an operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2008, and we have a history of operating losses. Given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, the technical difficulties we experienced with version 5.0 of the Studio suite of products, and potential technical difficulties we may encounter in the future, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business, including our ability to raise additional funds. In addition, to the extent we introduce new products that are not accepted by the market, we would continue to experience operating losses. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our strategy envisions growing our business. To date, our growth has been derived primarily from the growth of our multi-tiered Affiliate base and we intend to continue to employ this growth strategy. To manage anticipated growth, we plan to expand our technology to handle increasing volume on our websites and to expand our administrative and marketing organizations to accommodate larger numbers of our Affiliates. We must also effectively manage our relationships with the increasing number of retail customers/users of our products. We will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. These processes are time consuming and expensive, will increase management responsibilities and will divert management attention. In addition, we have gone through a complete restructuring of senior management and our new management is focused on turning our company around. Any growth in or expansion of our business is likely to continue to place a strain on our management and administrative resources, infrastructure and systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • sufficiently and timely improve our technology to handle increasing volume on our websites; • expand our administrative and marketing systems effectively, efficiently or in a timely manner to accommodate increasing numbers of our Affiliates; or • allocate our human resources optimally. Our inability or failure to manage our growth and expansion effectively could result in strained Affiliate and customer relationships based on dissatisfaction with our service to these groups, our failure to meet demand for our products and/or increased expenses to us to resolve these issues, and a consequent significant decrease in the number of our Affiliates and end users. Any significant decrease in our Affiliate base or the number of retail customers, or the election of new Affiliates to sign on for lower level packages would result in a decrease in revenues. If we continue to experience technological difficulties with our products our Affiliate base could shrink, customer growth could decrease and our business could suffer. In November 2006, we released the 5.0 version of the DigitalFX Studio that included expanded functionality and features. The testing we conducted did not reveal various technical difficulties that remained with the product. In addition, the 5.0 version rolled out in November 2006 did not contain all of the enhancements that our Affiliates were expecting due to development delays. The result was a product with lower than expected functionality and operating difficulties. As a result of these issues, our Affiliate network has not marketed our products and the business opportunity as widely as projected in our plan. While we have taken steps to ameliorate these difficulties, to the extent that we continue to encounter technical difficulties, and to the extent that enhancements to the products we release or new products have technical difficulties, the reputation of our products could suffer, our Affiliate base could shrink and our ability to generate new customers, and consequently revenue, would be negatively impacted. Our ability to grow our business would also be negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents We are presently planning a launch of F5 to replace our core technology. We may experience interruptions in service while we are integrating the new service or a period of instability if the new technology cannot be scaled up. Eighty-three percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 have been derived from sales of our products and services to our Affiliates, and our future success depends on our ability to grow our Affiliate base, as well as to expand our retail subscriptions and initiate advertising revenue. To date, our revenue growth has been derived primarily from the growth of our multi-tiered Affiliate base. Rather than using traditional advertising and sales methods, we chose to create a multi-tiered affiliate program to develop new customers. Affiliates earn retail commissions on a monthly residual basis by acquiring new customers for us. Affiliates earn additional commissions from the sales activities of Affiliates who they personally enroll. These rewards are extended for up to eight generations of Affiliates, meaning that an Affiliate earns a commission on the sales of the Affiliates they have personally enrolled as well as on the sales of second-, third-, and fourth-generation Affiliates, potentially eight levels deep. Our Affiliate compensation plan is structured on a 3x8 matrix, meaning Affiliates can each enroll three Affiliates underneath themselves before they begin to build their next organizational level. The layers of three continue down a total of eight levels. Our success and the planned growth and expansion of our business depend on us achieving greater and broader acceptance of our products and expanding our customer base. There can be no assurance that customers will subscribe to our product offerings or that we will continue to expand our customer base. Though we plan to continue to provide tools to our Affiliates to enable them to generate sales, we cannot guarantee that the time and resources we spend on these efforts will generate a commensurate increase in users of our product offerings. If we are unable to effectively market or expand our product offerings, and if our Affiliate enrollment does not continue to grow, we will be unable to grow and expand our business or implement our business strategy. This could materially impair our ability to increase sales and revenue and materially and adversely affect our margins, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to attract and retain a large active base of Affiliates who purchase and sell our products. We cannot give any assurances that the productivity of our Affiliates will continue at their current levels or increase in the future. Several factors affect our ability to attract and retain a significant number of Affiliates, including: • on-going motivation of our Affiliates; • general economic conditions; • significant changes in the amount of commissions paid; • public perception and acceptance of direct selling; • public perception and acceptance of us and our products; 17 Table of Contents • the limited number of people interested in pursuing direct selling as a business; • our ability to provide proprietary quality-driven products that the market demands; and • competition in recruiting and retaining active Affiliates. Our ability to conduct business, particularly in international markets, may be affected by political, economic, legal and regulatory risks, which could adversely affect the expansion of our business in those markets. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is exposed to risks associated with international operations, including: • the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of selling through our Affiliates, or that local civil unrest, political instability or changes in diplomatic or trade relationships might disrupt our operations in an international market; • the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on Affiliates, as direct sellers, or on our company due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; • the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our Affiliates as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our Affiliates; • our ability to staff and manage international operations; • handling the various accounting, tax and legal complexities arising from our international operations; and • understanding cultural differences affecting non-U.S. customers. We currently conduct activities in Australia, Canada, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain. We have not been affected in the past by any of the potential political, legal or regulatory risks identified above. While we do not consider these risks to be material in the foreign countries in which we currently operate, they may be material in other countries where we may expand our business. We are also subject to the risk that due to legislative or regulatory changes in one or more of our present or future markets, our marketing system could be found not to comply with applicable laws and regulations or may be prohibited. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of legal fines and/or penalties which would increase our operating costs. We may also be required to comply with directives or orders from various courts or applicable regulatory bodies to conform to the requirements of new legislation or regulation, which would detract management’s attention from the operation of our business. Further we could be prohibited from distributing products through our marketing system or may be required to modify our marketing system. Our services are currently priced in local currency in most foreign markets. As a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. We do not currently engage in hedging activities or other actions to decrease fluctuations in operating results due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although we may do so when the amount of revenue obtained from sources outside of the United States becomes significant. 18 Table of Contents We also face legal and regulatory risks in the United States, the affect of which could reduce our sales and revenues. Our marketing program is subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission and various state agencies in the United States, directed at preventing fraudulent or deceptive schemes by ensuring that product sales are made to consumers of the products and that compensation, recognition, and advancement within the marketing organization are based on the sale of products rather than investment in the organization or other non-sales-related criteria. These regulatory requirements do not include “bright line” rules and are inherently fact-based. Thus, even though we believe that our marketing program complies with applicable federal and state laws or regulations, we are subject to the risk that a governmental agency or court could determine that we have failed to meet these requirements in a particular case. Such an adverse determination could require us to make modifications to our marketing system, increasing our operating expenses. The negative publicity associated with such an adverse determination could also reduce Affiliate and end user demand for our products, which would consequently reduce our sales and revenues. We are also subject to the provisions of the CAN-SPAM Act which establishes requirements for commercial email and specifies penalties for commercial email that violates the CAN-SPAM Act. In the event that F5 or our Studio suite of products are determined to violate the CAN-SPAM Act, our business would be adversely affected through the reduction of sales and revenues and the resulting penalties would adversely affect our operating results. If we incur substantial liability from litigation, complaints, or enforcement actions resulting from misconduct by our multi-level Affiliates, our financial condition could suffer. Although we use various means to address misconduct by our multi-level Affiliates, including maintaining policies and procedures to govern the conduct of our Affiliates and conducting training seminars, it is still difficult to detect and correct all instances of misconduct. Violations of our policies and procedures by our Affiliates could lead to litigation, formal or informal complaints, enforcement actions, and inquiries by various federal, state, or foreign regulatory authorities against us and/or our Affiliates. Litigation, complaints, and enforcement actions involving us and our Affiliates could consume considerable amounts of financial and other corporate resources, which could have a negative impact on our sales, revenue, profitability and growth prospects. We have not been, and are not currently, subject to any material litigation, complaint or enforcement action regarding Affiliate misconduct by any federal, state or foreign regulatory authority. We may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors, which could decrease our revenue and margins and harm our business. The digital communications, email marketing and the multi tier industries are highly competitive. Our future growth and financial success depend on our ability to further penetrate and expand our user base, increase our affiliate base, recruit leaders to our program, as well as our ability to grow our revenue models. Our competitors, in several instances, possess greater resources than we do and in many cases are owned by companies with broader business lines. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our growth rate or increase our market share in our industry at the expense of existing competitors. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights which would affect our ability to compete in our industry. Our intellectual property relates to the initiation, receipt and management of digital communications and our dedicated body of affiliates who distribute our technology products. We rely in part on trade secret, unfair competition, trade dress and trademark law to protect our rights to certain aspects of our intellectual property, including our software technologies, domain names and recognized trademarks, all of which we believe are important to the success of our products and our competitive position. There can be no assurance that any of our trademark applications will result in the issuance of a registered trademark, or that any trademark granted will be effective in thwarting competition or be held valid if subsequently challenged. In addition, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products, that our proprietary information will not become known to competitors, that we can meaningfully protect our rights to unpatented proprietary information or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent or better products that do not infringe on our intellectual property rights. We could be required to devote substantial resources to enforce and protect our intellectual property, which could divert our resources from the conduct of our business and result in increased expenses. In addition, an adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to particular intellectual property, could require us to grant licenses to third parties, could prevent us from selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which could reduce our sales and/or result in the entry of additional competitors into our industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the loyalty of our affiliates, or any size of an organization, or to avoid the attempts by other companies to raid our network. We are very protective of our proprietary systems and ideas and have acted swiftly to ensure that the integrity and secrets of our company are kept in confidence. We may become subject to litigation for infringing the intellectual property rights of others the affect of which could cause us to cease marketing and exploiting our products. Others may initiate claims against us for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We may be subject to costly litigation relating to such infringement claims and we may be required to pay compensatory and punitive damages or license fees if we settle or are found culpable in such litigation. In addition, we may be precluded from offering products that rely on intellectual property that is found to have been infringed by us. We also may be required to cease offering the affected products while a determination as to infringement is considered and could eventually be required to modify our products to cease the infringing activity. These developments could cause a decrease in our operating income and reduce our available cash flow, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We may have to expend significant resources developing alternative technologies in the event that third party licenses for intellectual property upon which our business depends are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us. We rely on certain intellectual property licensed from third parties and may be required to license additional products from third parties in the future. There can be no assurance that these third party licenses will be available or will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to enter into and maintain any license necessary for the conduct of our business could result in our expenditure of significant capital to develop or obtain alternate technologies and to integrate such alternate technologies into our current products, or could result in our cessation of the development or sales of products for which such licenses are necessary. 20 Table of Contents We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, experienced, highly skilled personnel, which could adversely affect the implementation of our business plan. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled and qualified personnel. In particular, we are heavily dependent on the continued services of Richard Kall and the other members of our senior management team. Mr. Kall has been widely recognized as a leader in the Network Marketing industry with over 30 years of experience. We do not have long-term employment agreements with most members of our senior management team, each of whom may voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us at any time. Following any termination of employment, those employees without employment agreements would not be subject to any non-competition covenants or non-solicitation covenants. The loss of any key employee, including members of our senior management team, could result in a decrease in the efficacy with which we implement our business plan due to the loss of our experienced managers, increased competition in our industry and could negatively impact our sales and marketing operations. The loss of Mr. Kall as a leader in our company could have a detrimental effect on the future of our company. Our inability to attract highly skilled personnel with sufficient experience in our industry could result in less innovation in our products and a consequent decrease in our competitive position, and a decrease in the quality of our service to our Affiliates and end users and a consequent decrease in our sales, revenue and operating income. Our senior management had limited experience managing a publicly traded company prior to serving as our executive officers. This limited experience may divert our management’s attention from operations and harm our business. Our management team had limited experience managing the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws prior to serving as our executive officers. Management will be required to implement appropriate programs and policies to comply with existing disclosure requirements and to respond to increased reporting requirements pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These increased requirements include the preparation of an internal report which states the responsibility of management for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and containing an assessment, as of the end of each fiscal year, of the effectiveness of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Management’s efforts to familiarize itself with and to implement appropriate procedures to comply with the disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws could divert its attention from the operation of our business. Management’s failure to comply with the disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws could lead to the imposition of fines and penalties by the SEC. If we are not able to respond to the adoption of technological innovation in our industry and changes in consumer demand, our products will cease to be competitive, which could result in a decrease in revenue and harm our business. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep up with changes in consumer tastes and offer seamless compatibility with other systems or applications offered by industry leaders, and our continued ability to differentiate our products through implementation of new technologies. We may not, however, be able to successfully do so, and our competitors may be able to implement new technologies at a much lower cost. These types of developments could render our products less competitive and possibly eliminate any differentiating advantage that we might hold at the present time. 21 Table of Contents Other Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock There is limited trading, and consequently limited liquidity, of our common stock. Prior to August 23, 2007, bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock were quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “DFXN.” From August 23, 2007 through February 12, 2009, our common stock was traded on AMEX under the symbol “DXN.” On February 13, 2009 our common stock resumed quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol DGFX.” Although our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, there is limited trading of our common stock and our common stock is not broadly followed by securities analysts. The average daily volume of our common stock as reported on AMEX for the year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 14,000 shares. Consequently, shareholders may find it difficult to sell shares of our common stock. While we are hopeful that we will command the interest of a greater number of investors and analysts, more active trading of our common stock may never develop or be maintained. More active trading generally results in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders. The absence of active trading reduces the liquidity of our common stock. As a result of the lack of trading activity, the quoted price for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board or the AMEX is not necessarily a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Further, if our common stock ceases to be quoted, holders of our common stock would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock, and the market value of our common stock would likely decline. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including announcements of new products or services by our competitors. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; • developments in the financial markets, and the worldwide or regional economies; • announcements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in merchant credit card interest rates; • significant sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and • changes in accounting principles. In the past, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a shareholder were to file any such class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation, which could impact our productivity and profitability. 22 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Upon the effectiveness of any registration statement that we may file with respect to the resale of shares held by our shareholders, a significant number of our shares of common stock may become eligible for sale, or, as specified below, these shares could be sold without any restrictions pursuant to other exemptions under the securities laws. The sale of these shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market could harm the market price of our common stock. A reduced market price for our shares could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. On November 30, 2007, upon the expiration of the lock up agreements restricting sales by the selling shareholders listed in the prospectus included on the post-effective amendment to the registration statement on Form SB-2 we filed with the SEC on May 22, 2007, additional shares of our common stock became eligible for unrestricted resale. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the open market (including shares issued upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants), the supply of our publicly traded shares will increase, which could decrease its price. Some of our shares may also be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market price of our shares. In general, a non-affiliate who has held restricted shares for a period of six months may sell an unrestricted number of shares of our common stock into the market. Economic and market conditions affecting certain of the large equity funds which purchased securities in our company upon and following the November 30, 2007 PIPE transaction could result in large blocks of shares of our common stock being sold into the market, thereby causing decreasing stock prices. The sale of securities by us in any equity or debt financing could result in dilution to our existing shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Any sale of common stock or convertible preferred stock by us in a future private placement offering could result in dilution to the existing shareholders as a direct result of our issuance of additional shares of our capital stock. In addition, our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth, by acquiring complementary businesses, by acquiring or licensing additional brands, or by establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to finance the cost of our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our shareholders’ stock ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company and this could negatively impact our earnings and results of operations. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, and any return on investment may be limited to potential future appreciation on the value of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends to our common stockholders in the foreseeable future. In addition we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid on our Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. The holders of Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock are also entitled to receive dividends, on a pari passu basis with the holders of our common stock, with the amount of such dividends to be distributed to the holders of Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred stock based on the number of shares of our common stock into which their shares of Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock are then convertible. We intend to pay quarterly dividends on the Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock as permitted under Florida Law. 23 Table of Contents Our payment of any future dividends to common stockholders will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including without limitation, our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans, senior dividend preferences and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. To the extent we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if and to the extent our common stock price appreciates, which may never occur. In addition, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation as the only way to realize their investment, and if the price of our common stock does not appreciate, then there will be no return on investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders, controlling approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock, and 100% of our Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, can exert significant influence over us and may make decisions that are not in the best interests of all shareholders. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders collectively control approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock and 100% of our Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. As a result, these shareholders will be able to affect the outcome of, or exert significant influence over, all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our common stock and Series A 12% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders, and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our articles of incorporation, as amended, our bylaws and Florida law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 