D. RISK FACTORS We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below. Although we have established the Enterprise Risk Management system to identify, evaluate and manage risks, our business activities are subject to the following risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Operations 12 Table of Contents Our business, revenues and profits fluctuate with changes in oil and gas prices Prices for crude oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, market uncertainty and various other factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to overall economic conditions, consumer demand for oil, political developments, the ability of petroleum producing nations to set and maintain production levels and prices, the price and availability of other energy sources, domestic and foreign government regulations, and weather conditions. In addition, our typical contracts with gas buyers include provisions for periodic resets and adjustment formulas that depend on a basket of crude oil prices and inflation as well as various other factors. These resets and adjustment formulas can result in natural gas price fluctuations. Even relatively modest declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. Lower oil and gas prices may result in the write-off of higher cost reserves and other assets and may lower our earnings or cause losses. Lower oil and gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically and render existing contracts that we have entered into uneconomical. The oil and gas reserve estimates in this annual report may require substantial revision as a result of future drilling, testing, production and oil and gas price changes The reliability of reserve estimates depends on a number of factors, including the quality and quantity of technical and economic data, the prevailing oil and gas prices for our production, the production performance of reservoirs, extensive engineering judgments, and the fiscal regime in the PRC and overseas where we have operations or assets. Many of the factors, assumptions and variables involved in estimating reserves are beyond our control and may prove to be incorrect over time. In addition, many of the factors involved in estimating reserves over which we do have control, such as the recovery factor estimates and the projected production decline rates, may also prove to be incorrect over time. Consequently, the results of drilling, testing and production and oil and gas price changes may require substantial upward or downward revisions in our initial reserve data. Any failure to replace reserves and develop our proved undeveloped reserves could adversely affect our business and our financial position Exploring for, developing and acquiring reserves is highly risky and capital intensive. Our exploration and development activities involve inherent risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. In addition, approximately 49.1% of our proved reserves were undeveloped as of December 31, 2010. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop these reserves in a timely and cost-effective manner. There are various risks in developing reserves, including construction, operational, geophysical, geological and regulatory risks. Our future prospects largely depend on our capital expenditures, which are subject to various risks Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues, profit and cash flows depends upon continuous capital spending, which is subject to a number of contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These variables include: cash flows from operations, the availability and terms of external financing, our ability to execute our project plans and commence production on time, weather conditions, the availability of services and facilities, approvals required from the PRC and foreign governments for certain capital expenditures and investments, and economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and overseas where we have operations or assets. Therefore, our actual capital expenditures and investments in the future may differ significantly from our current planned amounts. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding for our operations or development plans, our business, revenues, profit and cash flows could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Any failure to implement our natural gas business strategy may adversely affect our business and financial position As part of our business strategy and to meet increasing market demand in China, we continue to expand our natural gas business. In addition to the risks that affect our business generally, this strategy involves certain risks and uncertainties, including our limited market share compared to PetroChina Company Limited, or PetroChina, and China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, or Sinopec, and the underdeveloped natural gas transportation and supply infrastructure and market in China. We are evaluating the options to invest in CNOOC’s LNG projects in China. However, we have not decided whether to exercise these options. The options are subject to various conditions including certain governmental approvals, the prospects of such projects and, if applicable, independent shareholders’ approval. CNOOC largely controls us and we regularly enter into related party transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates CNOOC indirectly owned 64.41% of our shares as of March 31, 2011. As a result, CNOOC is able to control the composition of the board of directors of our company, or our Board, determine the timing and amount of our dividend payments and otherwise control us. If CNOOC takes actions that favor its interests over ours, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. In addition, we regularly enter into transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates, such as China Oilfield Services Limited, or COSL, Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd, or COOEC, and China BlueChemical Ltd. Some of our transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates constitute connected transactions under the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules. Furthermore, these connected transactions are subject to review by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and may also be subject to the prior approval of our independent shareholders. For example, we have obtained the independent shareholders’ approval in respect of certain continuing connected transactions under a comprehensive framework agreement with the CNOOC on November 24, 2010. If we do not obtain these approvals, we will not be allowed to effect these transactions and our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Under current PRC law, CNOOC has the exclusive right to enter into PSCs with foreign oil and gas companies for the petroleum resources exploitation in offshore China. Although CNOOC has undertaken to us that it will transfer all of its rights and obligations under any new PSCs to us, except those relating to its administrative functions, the interests of CNOOC in entering into PSCs with international oil and gas companies may differ from our interests, especially with respect to the criteria for determining whether, and on what terms, to enter into PSCs. Our future business development may be adversely affected if CNOOC does not enter into new PSCs on terms that are acceptable to us. Our business performance relies heavily on our sales to large domestic customers and a substantial drop in such sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations We sell a significant proportion of our production to CNOOC-affiliated companies, Sinopec, and PetroChina. However, we currently do not have long-term crude oil sales contracts with these customers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if any of them significantly reduced their crude oil purchases from us. We have limited control over our investments in joint ventures and our operations with partners Many of our operations are conducted with partners or in joint ventures in which we have limited ability to influence or control their operation or future development. For instance, in 2010, we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, CNOOC International Limited, acquired a 33.33% interest in Chesapeake Energy Corporation’s 600,000 net oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the Eagle Ford Shale project in South Texas. Our limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such joint venture could materially and adversely affect the realization of our target returns on capital and lead to unexpected future costs. 14 Table of Contents Blowout incidents may result in platform explosions, fire accidents and oil spills Our operations are mainly conducted offshore. Although we have adopted standard workflow procedures and various measures to control the risks of blowouts, we cannot assure you that we could avoid the potential losses caused by blowouts. If one or more blowout incidents occur, platform explosions and fire accidents caused by blowouts may result in casualties, property losses and environmental damages, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Extreme weather conditions may have a material adverse impact on us and could result in losses that are not covered by insurance Our exploration, development and production activities can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, which could result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, damage to our properties, cessation of activities, delay of project plans, shareholders lawsuits, government penalty, and increases in costs of drilling, completing and operating wells. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not maintain business interruption insurance for all of our oil and gas fields. We may suffer material losses resulting from uninsurable or uninsured risks or insufficient insurance coverage. Our controlling shareholder, CNOOC, or its affiliates’ current or future activities in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions could result in negative media and investor attention to us and possible imposition of sanctions on CNOOC, which could materially and adversely affect our shareholders We cannot predict the interpretation or implementation of government policy at the U.S. federal, state or local levels with respect to any current or future activities by CNOOC or its affiliates in countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. It is possible that the United States could subject CNOOC to sanctions due to these activities. Certain U.S. state and local governments and colleges have restrictions on the investment of public funds or endowment funds, respectively, in companies that are members of corporate groups with activities in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, such as Iran or Sudan. It is possible that the activities of CNOOC or its affiliates may affect the investment in our shares by such U.S. state and local governments and colleges. It is possible that, as a result of activities by CNOOC or its affiliates in these countries, we may be subject to negative media or investor attention, which may distract management, consume internal resources and affect investors’ perception of our company. Further, the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended in July 2010, or ISA, authorizes the imposition of sanctions on companies that export certain levels of refined petroleum products to Iran, or provide certain levels of assistance to Iran in developing petroleum resources or in importing or producing refined petroleum products. It is possible that CNOOC could engage in activities targeted by ISA. If the U.S. President determined that CNOOC in fact engaged in the prohibited activities, he could select from among nine sanctions options available under ISA, which range from restrictions on U.S. exports or bank financing to outright blocking of CNOOC’s property within U.S. jurisdiction. If the most extreme sanction, blocking, were applied to CNOOC’s property, including controlled subsidiaries, CNOOC Limited could be prohibited from engaging in business activities in the United States or with U.S. individuals or entities, and U.S. transactions in our securities and distributions to U.S. individuals and entities with respect to our securities could also be prohibited. Risks Relating to the Petroleum Industry The oil and natural gas industries are very competitive 15 Table of Contents We compete in the PRC and international markets with integrated and independent oil and gas companies for oil and gas properties or leases, customers, capital financing and business opportunities, including desirable oil and gas prospects. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate oil and gas properties. Changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operation in overseas We currently have operations and assets mainly in the PRC and also in various foreign countries and regions, including Indonesia, Australia, Nigeria, Myanmar, Iraq, Argentina, the United States and certain other countries, and may expand our operations into other countries to further enhance our reserve base and diversify our geographic risk profile. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in governmental policies or social instability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting these foreign nations which are not within our control, including, among other things, a change in crude oil or natural gas pricing policy, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions and contracts, taxation policies, foreign exchange and repatriation restrictions, changing political conditions and currency controls. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations in countries in which we operate. Changes in such laws and regulations could change environmental protection requirements and increase taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies. Such changes may increase our cost of compliance or tax burden, which could materially and adversely affect our net income and result of operations. In addition, the operations and assets that we currently have or in the future may have in foreign countries and regions may be materially and adversely affected by trade or economic sanctions that may be imposed by other countries due to their deteriorated relations with each other. War and acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect us We have operations and assets in various countries and regions, including Indonesia, Australia, Nigeria, Myanmar, Iraq, Argentina, the United States and certain other countries, some of which are deemed to be with a high degree of political risk. We face the risks of kidnapping, damage to property and business interruption caused by terrorism activities. Acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be penalized if we fail to comply with existing or future environmental laws and regulations Our business is subject to environmental protection laws and regulations in the PRC, as well as other jurisdictions where we operate. Our compliance with such laws or regulations may require us to incur significant capital expenditures or other obligations or liabilities, which could create a substantial financial burden on us. Furthermore, these jurisdictions may impose fees and fines for the discharge of waste substances or serious environmental pollution, and authorize a government, at its discretion, to close or suspend any facility which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure operations causing environmental damage. Risks Relating to the PRC Changes in PRC laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operation Our operations and assets are mainly in the People's Republic of China. The PRC government exercises control over the PRC petroleum industry, including licensing, exploring, producing, distributing, pricing, taxing, importing, exporting and allocating of various resources. We have benefited from various favorable PRC government policies, laws and regulations that have been enacted to encourage the development of the offshore petroleum industry. We cannot guarantee that the legal and fiscal regimes affecting our businesses will remain substantially unchanged or that we will continue to benefit from favorable PRC government policies. For instance, in 2006, the State Council of the PRC issued the Decision to Impose a Special Oil Gain Levy and the Ministry of Finance promulgated the Management Rules on the Administration of Special Oil Gain Levy, effective March 26, 2006. For detailed information on the Special Oil Gain Levy, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulatory Framework—Special Policies Applicable to the Offshore Petroleum Industry in China.” In addition, see “—Government control of currency conversion and future movements in exchange rates may adversely affect our operations and financial condition” and “—Certain legal restrictions on dividend distribution may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows” for detailed information on the risks related to government control of currency conversion and the risks related to certain legal restrictions on dividend distribution, respectively. 16 Table of Contents In addition, existing PRC regulations require us to obtain various PRC government licenses and other approvals, including in some cases approvals for amendments and extensions of existing licenses and approvals to conduct exploration and development activities off the shores of China. If we are unable to obtain any necessary approvals, our reserves and production would be adversely affected. Government control of currency conversion and future movements in exchange rates may adversely affect our operations and financial condition A portion of our Renminbi revenue may need to be converted into other currencies by our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC, CNOOC China Limited, to meet our substantial requirements for foreign currencies, including: debt service on foreign currency denominated debt, overseas acquisitions of oil and gas properties, purchases of imported equipment, and payment of dividends declared in respect of shares held by international investors. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments with respect to foreign currency denominated obligations, are subject to the approval requirements of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. The value of Renminbi against U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollar may cause a decrease in our oil sales, since the benchmark oil prices are usually in U.S. dollars. Certain legal restrictions on dividend distribution may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows We are a holding company. Our businesses are owned and conducted through various wholly owned subsidiaries, including CNOOC China Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC. Accordingly, our future cash flows will consist principally of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Our PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us is subject to PRC laws and regulations. For example, legal restrictions in the PRC permit payment of dividends only out of profits determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Substantially all our dividend payments result from dividends paid to us as a holding company by CNOOC China Limited. CNOOC China Limited must follow the laws and regulations of the PRC and its articles of association in determining its dividends. As a wholly foreign owned enterprise in China, CNOOC China Limited has to provide for a reserve fund and staff and workers’ bonus and welfare fund, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distributions according to the prevailing accounting rules and regulations in the PRC. Therefore, there is a risk that we may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flows due to these restrictions on dividend distribution. 