Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company entails the following risks and uncertainties. These risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating any investment in the Company. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause the actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements set forth herein, and could otherwise have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKS Adverse changes in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The homebuilding industry continues to experience uncertainty and reduced demand for new homes in certain markets, which negatively impacted the Company’s financial and operating results during the year ending December 31, 2010. Increased instability in the credit markets has contributed to the decline in demand for new housing. The conditions experienced during 2010 include, among other things, the subdued emergence from a national recession, increases in unemployment levels, continuing concerns over the effects of asset valuations on the banking system and credit markets, reduced availability of mortgage loan financing, reduced consumer confidence, the absence of home price stability, and continued declines in the 15 Table of Contents value of new homes in certain markets. For the year ending December 31, 2010, net new home orders decreased 25% to 650 from 869 in the 2009 period. The Company experienced a decrease of 29% in net new home orders of 869 in the 2009 period compared to 1,221 in 2008. If the downturn in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries continues or intensifies, or if the national economy weakens further and the recession continues or intensifies, the Company could continue to experience declines in the market value of the Company’s inventory and demand for the Company’s homes, which could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s gross margins and financial and operating results. Additionally, if energy costs should increase, demand for the Company’s homes could be adversely impacted, and the cost of building homes may increase, both of which could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Revenues and margins may continue to decrease, and results of operations may be adversely affected, as a result of declines in demand for housing and other changes in economic and business conditions. The residential homebuilding industry is cyclical and is highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions such as levels of employment, consumer confidence and income, availability of financing for acquisitions, construction and permanent mortgages, interest rate levels, inflation, immigration trends and demand for housing. An important segment of the Company’s customer base consists of move-up buyers, who often purchase homes subject to contingencies related to the sale of their existing homes. The difficulties facing these buyers in selling their homes during recessionary periods may adversely affect home sales. Moreover, during such periods, the Company may need to reduce sales prices and offer greater incentives to buyers to compete for sales that may result in reduced margins. Increases in the rate of inflation could adversely affect gross margins by increasing costs and expenses. In times of high inflation, demand for housing may decline and the Company may be unable to recover increased costs through higher sales. Since early 2006, the U.S. housing market has been negatively impacted by declined consumer confidence, restrictive mortgage standards, and large supplies of foreclosure, resale and new homes, among other factors. When combined with a prolonged economic downturn, high unemployment levels, and uncertainty in the U.S. economy, these conditions have contributed to decreased demand for housing, declining sales prices, and increasing pricing pressure, which hinders the Company’s ability to attract new home buyers. As a result, the Company has experienced operating losses each year, beginning in 2007. Such losses resulted from a combination of reduced homebuilding gross margins, losses on land sales to generate cash flow and significant non-cash impairment losses on real estate inventories. On November 6, 2009, the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 was enacted into law, which extended and expanded the homebuyer federal tax credit until April 30, 2010. The Act, which was applicable to net new home orders under contract by April 30, 2010 and closed by September 30, 2010, favorably impacted our home sales during the early part of 2010, but also contributed to an industry-wide decline in net new home orders in the latter part of 2010. Increases in the Company’s cancellation rate could have a negative impact on the Company’s home sales revenue and home building gross margins. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s cancellation rates were 19%, 21% and 28%, respectively, which can negatively impact the number of closed homes, net new home orders, home sales revenue and the Company’s results of operations, as well as the number of homes in backlog. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines, and/or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. High levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on the Company’s home sales revenue and financial and operating results. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products or access to capital. The homebuilding industry can be greatly affected by macro economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, as well as potential homebuyers’ perceptions of such economic factors. These factors, including employment levels, income, prices, and credit availability and interest rates affecting homeowners, can adversely affect the residential real estate market. As discussed in this and prior reports, the residential real estate market has been particularly challenging over the last several quarters. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and, in particular, the credit and financial markets, have further deteriorated this environment and could further reduce consumer income, liquidity, credit and confidence in the economy, and result in further reductions in new and existing home sales. Continuing softness or deterioration of the credit markets or the residential real estate market could be severely harmful to the Company’s financial position and results of operations and could adversely affect the Company’s and/or California Lyon’s liquidity or its ability to comply with the covenants under its indentures and credit facilities. If California Lyon is unable to comply with the terms of its credit facilities and/or the indentures governing its Senior Notes, the holders of the indebtedness under the credit facilities and/or the indentures governing the Senior Notes could accelerate that indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against California Lyon, the Company and the other guarantors of the indebtedness. There can be no assurances that recent or future government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize such markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to consumers and businesses. Interest rates and the unavailability of mortgage financing can adversely affect demand for housing. In general, housing demand is negatively impacted by increases in interest rates and housing costs and the unavailability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or other factors. Most buyers finance their home purchases through third-party lenders providing mortgage financing. Over the last several years, many third-party lenders have significantly increased underwriting standards, and many subprime and other alternate mortgage products are no longer available in the marketplace in spite of a decrease in mortgage rates. If these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult to obtain, the ability and willingness of 16 Table of Contents prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect the Company’s results of operations through reduced home sales revenue, gross margin and cash flow. Changes in federal income tax laws may also affect demand for new homes. Various proposals have been publicly discussed to limit mortgage interest deductions and to limit the exclusion of gain from the sale of a principal residence. Enactment of such proposals may have an adverse effect on the homebuilding industry in general. No meaningful prediction can be made as to whether any such proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the particular form such laws would take. Financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by any decrease in the value of land inventory, as well as by the associated carrying costs. The Company continuously acquires land for replacement and expansion of land inventory within the markets in which it builds. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, the Company may have bought and developed land on which homes cannot be profitably built and sold. The market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. The Company employs measures to manage inventory risks which may not be successful. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. In the event of significant changes in economic or market conditions, the Company may have to sell homes at significantly lower margins or at a loss. Further, the Company may be required to write-down the book value of certain real estate assets in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and some of those write-downs could be material. During 2010, the Company incurred non-cash impairment losses on real estate assets amounting to $111.9 million. In addition, the Company incurred non-cash impairment losses on real estate assets of $45.3 million and $135.3 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Company assesses its projects on a quarterly basis, when indicators of impairment exist. Indicators of impairment include a decrease in demand for housing due to soft market conditions, competitive pricing pressures which reduce the average sales price of homes, which includes sales incentives for home buyers, slow sales absorption rates, a decrease in the value of the underlying land and a decrease in project cash flows for a particular project. The Company was required to write down the book value of its impaired real estate assets in accordance with FASB ASC 360, as defined in Note 5 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” A continued slump in the housing market could result in additional write-downs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and earnings. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S INDEBTEDNESS The Company’s high level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations. The Company is highly leveraged and, subject to restrictions, the Company, California Lyon and their subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness. The Company’s high level of indebtedness could have detrimental consequences, including the following: • a significant portion of the indebtedness of California Lyon is scheduled to mature prior to or during 2014, and California Lyon may not have the ability to repay its indebtedness as it matures; • the ability to obtain additional financing as needed for working capital, land acquisition costs, building costs, other capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, or to refinance existing indebtedness before its scheduled maturity, may be limited; • the Company will need to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its Senior Secured Term Loan due 2014 (the “Term Loan”), Senior Notes and other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes; • if the Company or California Lyon is unable to comply with the terms of the agreements governing the indebtedness of California Lyon, the holders of that indebtedness could accelerate that indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against California Lyon, the Company, and the other guarantors; • the Company has a higher level of indebtedness than some of its competitors, which may put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and reduce the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; • substantially all of California Lyon’s actively selling projects are pledged as security for California Lyon’s Term Loan and a default on the debt could result in foreclosure on California Lyon’s assets which could, under certain circumstances, limit or prohibit the ability to operate as a going concern; and • the Company is vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. The Company’s ability to meet expenses depends on future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. The Company will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates and pressure from competitors. The Company cannot be certain that the cash flow will be sufficient to allow the Company and California Lyon to pay principal and interest on debt, support operations, and meet other obligations. If the Company and California Lyon do not have the resources to meet these and other obligations, California 18 Table of Contents Lyon may be required to refinance all or part of the existing debt, including the Senior Notes, sell assets or borrow more money. California Lyon may not be able to do so on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments limit the ability of California Lyon or the Company to pursue any of these alternatives. The Company may not be able to comply with the financial covenants contained in the Term Loan. The Term Loan imposes restrictions on operations, limits the amount of borrowings under its other sources, and requires California Lyon and the Company to comply with various financial covenants. The financial covenants include a requirement that the Company maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $75 million and certain asset loan-to-value ratios. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s tangible net worth fell below $75 million due primarily to non-cash impairment losses on real estate assets realized during 2010. California Lyon has reached an agreement with the lenders under the Term Loan that amended the Term Loan to permit the Company’s tangible net worth to fall below $75.0 million for two consecutive quarters. In addition, California Lyon reached a subsequent agreement with the lenders under the Term Loan to waive any non-compliance with the tangible net worth covenant and other potential defaults through July 19, 2011, subject to certain terms and conditions. There can be no assurance that California Lyon will remain in compliance with the conditions associated with the lenders’ waiver through July 19, 2011. If California Lyon is unable to comply with any one or more of these financial covenants, and is unable to obtain a waiver for the noncompliance, California Lyon could be in default under the Term Loan, and California Lyon’s obligations to repay indebtedness outstanding under the Term Loan could be accelerated. An acceleration of California Lyon’s obligations under the Term Loan would result in an event of default under the Senior Notes, which would permit the holders of the Senior Notes to accelerate the Senior Notes. Any such acceleration would result in a default under the Term Loan, and could also result in defaults and acceleration under California Lyon’s other debt instruments. Any of these events could severely impact the Company’s liquidity and ability to conduct its operations. Difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital could result in increased costs and delays in completion of projects. The homebuilding industry is capital-intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. Land acquisition, development and construction activities may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of financing or the unwillingness of third parties to engage in joint ventures. The Company’s current financial position may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain capital for development projects, particularly if the Company has difficulty meeting its current financial covenants. Any difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital for planned development expenditures could cause project delays and any such delay could result in cost 19 Table of Contents increases and may adversely affect the Company’s sales and future results of operations and cash flows. The Term Loan Agreement and the Senior Notes Indentures and the Company’s Term Loan impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent the Company and its subsidiaries from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The Senior Notes Indentures and the credit agreement governing the Term Loan impose significant operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • make investments; • sell assets; • incur liens; • enter into agreements restricting the Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. California Lyon’s other debt instruments contain additional restrictions. In addition, the Company or its subsidiaries may in the future enter into other agreements refinancing or otherwise governing indebtedness which impose yet additional restrictions. These restrictions may adversely affect the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. A default under any of the Senior Notes could cause defaults under our other Senior Notes and our Term Loan, which could in turn permit the lenders or holders of Senior Notes to accelerate the obligations of California Lyon, the Company and the other guarantors, and to exercise other rights and remedies. California Lyon may not be able to satisfy its obligations upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a “change of control,” as defined in the indentures respectively governing the Senior Notes Indentures, each holder of the Senior Notes will have the right to require California Lyon to purchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, to the date of purchase. California Lyon’s failure to purchase, or give notice of purchase of, the Senior Notes would be a default under the applicable indenture, which would cause a default under the Term Loan and could also cause defaults and/or accelerations under California Lyon’s other indebtedness. Any of these events could severely impact the Company’s liquidity and ability to conduct its operations. If this event occurs, the holders of California Lyon’s indebtedness could accelerate the indebtedness, and California Lyon may not have enough assets to satisfy all obligations under the Term Loan, the Senior Notes Indentures and any other accelerated indebtedness. In order to satisfy the obligations, California Lyon could seek to refinance the indebtedness under the Senior Notes and any other indebtedness or obtain waivers from the holders of the indebtedness. California Lyon may not be able to obtain a waiver or refinance the indebtedness on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, the definition of change of control in the Senior Notes Indentures includes a phrase relating to the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of “all or substantially all” of the assets of the Company and the restricted subsidiaries. Although there is a developing body of case law interpreting the phrase “substantially all,” there is no precise established definition of the phrase under applicable law. Moreover, under the Senior Notes Indentures, the Company could engage in certain important corporate events, including acquisitions, refinancings or other recapitalizations or highly leveraged transactions, which would not constitute a change of control under the indentures and thus would not give rise to any repurchase rights, but which could increase the amount of indebtedness outstanding at such time or otherwise affect the Company’s capital structure or credit ratings or otherwise adversely affect holders of the Senior Notes. Any such transaction, however, would have to comply with the operating and financial restrictions contained in the Term Loan and the Senior Notes Indentures. 20 Table of Contents Potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Over the past few years, the rating agencies had downgraded the Company’s corporate credit rating and ratings on the Senior Notes due to the deterioration in our homebuilding operations, credit metrics, other earnings-based metrics and the significant decrease in our tangible net worth. These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. Our credit ratings could be further lowered or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in a credit rating downgrade or change in outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing. OPERATIONAL RISKS If land is not available at reasonable prices, the Company’s home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or the Company could be required to scale back the Company’s operations in a given market. The Company’s operations depend on the Company’s ability to obtain land for the development of the Company’s residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet the Company’s underwriting criteria. The Company’s ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices given the deterioration in market conditions, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions. If the supply of land appropriate for development of residential communities continues to be limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that the Company’s homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell may continue to decline. Additionally, the ability of the Company to open new projects could be impacted if the Company elects not to purchase lots under option contracts. To the extent that the Company is unable to purchase land timely or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time the Company acquires land 21 Table of Contents and the time the Company begins selling homes, the Company’s home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or the Company could be required to scale back the Company’s operations in a given market. Adverse weather and geological conditions may increase costs, cause project delays and reduce consumer demand for housing, all of which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and prospects. As a homebuilder, the Company is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond management’s control, including: adverse weather conditions such as droughts, floods, or wildfires, which could damage projects, cause delays in completion of projects, or reduce consumer demand for housing; shortages in labor or materials, which could delay project completion and cause increases in the prices for labor or materials, thereby affecting the Company’s sales and profitability; and landslides, soil subsidence, earthquakes and other geologic events, which could damage projects, cause delays in the completion of projects or reduce consumer demand for the Company’s projects. Many of the Company’s projects are located in California, which has experienced significant earthquake activity and seasonal wildfires. In addition to directly damaging the Company’s projects, earthquakes or other geologic events could damage roads and highways providing access to those projects, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s ability to market homes in those areas and possibly increasing the costs of completion. There are some risks of loss for which the Company may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be insurable and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, may not be economically insurable. A sizeable uninsured loss could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business is geographically concentrated, and sales, results of operations, financial condition and business would be negatively impacted by a decline in regional economies. The Company presently conducts all of its business in four geographic regions: Southern California, Northern California, Arizona and Nevada. Because the Company’s operations are concentrated in these geographic areas, the economic downturn in these markets has caused housing prices and sales to decline, which has caused a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company generates over 85% it its revenue and a significant amount of its profits from, and holds approximately one-half of the dollar value of real estate inventory in, California. Over the last several years, land values, the demand for new homes and home prices have declined substantially in the state, negatively impacting the Company’s profitability and financial position. In addition, the state of California is experiencing severe budget shortfalls and is considering raising taxes and increasing fees to offset the deficit. There can be no assurance that the profitability and financial position of the Company will not be further impacted if the challenging conditions in California continue or worsen. The Company may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in the homebuilding industry. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, homebuying customers, desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. The Company competes both with large homebuilding companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing and sales resources than the Company, and with smaller local builders. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are substantially similar to our products. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We currently build in several of the top markets in the nation and, therefore, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. The Company also competes for sales with individual resales of existing homes and with available rental housing. The Company’s operating results are variable. The Company has historically experienced, and in the future expects to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly and an annual basis. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among other things: • the timing of land acquisitions, zoning and other regulatory approvals; • the timing of home closings, land sales and level of sales; • product mix; • the ability to continue to acquire additional land or options thereon at acceptable terms; • inventory impairment charges due to market impact on sales prices; • the condition of the real estate market and the general economy; • delays in construction due to acts of God, adverse weather, reduced subcontractor availability, and strikes; 22 Table of Contents • changes in prevailing interests rates and the availability of mortgage financing; and • costs of material and labor. Many of the factors affecting the Company’s results are beyond the Company’s control and may be difficult to predict. The Company’s success depends on key executive officers and personnel. The Company’s success is dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and in the Company’s divisional markets. In particular, the Company is dependent upon the services of General William Lyon, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and William H. Lyon, President and Chief Operating Officer, as well as the services of the division presidents and division management teams and personnel in the corporate office. The loss of the services of any of these executives or key personnel, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Construction defect, soil subsidence and other building-related claims may be asserted against the Company, and the Company may be subject to liability for such claims. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. California law provides that consumers can seek redress for patent (i.e., observable) defects in new homes within three or four years (depending on the type of claim asserted) from when the defect is discovered or should have been discovered. If the defect is latent (i.e., non-observable), consumers must still seek redress within three or four years from the date when the defect is discovered or should have been discovered, but in no event later than ten years after the date of substantial completion of the work on the construction. Consumers purchasing homes in Arizona and Nevada may also be able to obtain redress under state laws for either patent or latent defects in their new homes. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defect claims, product liability claims and related claims, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it can be difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand. Although we have obtained insurance for construction defect claims subject to applicable self-insurance retentions, such policies may not be available or adequate to cover liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding current claims, and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. Utility shortages or price increases could have an adverse impact on operations. In prior years, certain areas in Northern and Southern California have experienced power shortages, including mandatory periods without electrical power, as well as significant increases in utility costs. The Company may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages and utility rate increases continue. Furthermore, power shortages and rate increases may adversely affect the regional economies in which the Company operates, which may reduce demand for housing. The Company’s operations may be adversely impacted if further rate increases and/or power shortages occur. The Company’s business and results of operations are dependent on the availability and skill of subcontractors. Substantially all construction work is done by subcontractors with the Company acting as the general contractor. Accordingly, the timing and quality of construction depends on the availability and skill of the Company’s subcontractors. While the Company has been able to obtain sufficient materials and subcontractors during times of material shortages and believes that its relationships with suppliers and subcontractors are good, the Company does not have long-term contractual commitments with any subcontractors or suppliers. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Increased insurance costs and reduced insurance coverages may affect the Company’s results of operations and increase the potential exposure to liability. Recently, lawsuits have been filed against builders asserting claims of personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential dwellings. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements against these builders. The Company’s insurance may not cover all of the potential claims, including personal injury claims, arising from the presence of mold or such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage, a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations could result if the Company is exposed to claims arising from the presence of mold. The cost of insurance for the Company’s operations has risen, deductibles and retentions have increased and the availability of insurance has diminished. Significant increases in the cost of insurance coverage or significant limitations on coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations from such increased costs or from liability for significant uninsurable or underinsured claims. We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. We participate in land development joint ventures (JVs) in which we have less than a controlling interest. We have entered into JVs in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. Our JVs are typically entered into with developers, other homebuilders and financial partners to develop finished lots for sale to the joint venture’s members and other third parties. Our joint venture investments are generally very illiquid, due to a lack a controlling interest in the JVs. Our lack of a controlling interest also results in the risk that the JV will take actions that we disagree with, or fail to take actions that we desire, including actions regarding the sale of the underlying property. The Company is the general partner in partnership joint ventures and may be liable for joint venture obligations. Certain of the Company’s active joint ventures are organized as limited partnerships. The Company is the general partner in some of these and may serve as the general partner in future joint ventures. As a general partner, the Company may be liable for a joint venture’s liabilities and obligations should the joint venture fail or be unable to pay these liabilities or obligations. Supply and labor shortages and other risks could increase costs and delay completion. Construction services operations could be adversely affected by fluctuating prices and limited supplies of building materials as well as the cost and availability of trades personnel. These prices and supplies may be adversely affected by natural disasters and adverse weather conditions, which could cause increased costs and delays in construction that could have an adverse effect upon the Company’s construction services operations. The Company is subject to changes in the demand for construction projects. Individual markets can be sensitive to overall capital spending trends in the economy, financing and capital availability for real estate and competitive pressures on the availability and pricing of construction projects. These factors can result in a reduction in the supply of suitable projects, increased competition and reduced margins on construction contracts. The timing and funding of contracts and other factors could lead to unpredictable operating results. Construction services operations are also subject to other risks and uncertainties, including the timing of new contracts and the funding of such awards; the length of time over which construction contracts are to be performed; cancellations of, or changes in the scope of, existing contracts; and the ability to meet performance or schedule guarantees and cost overruns. 24 Table of Contents REGULATORY RISKS Governmental laws and regulations may increase the Company’s expenses, limit the number of homes that the Company can build or delay completion of projects. The Company is subject to numerous local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction and similar matters which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Projects that are not entitled may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. The Company may also be subject to periodic delays or may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities due to building moratoriums or “slow-growth” or “no-growth” initiatives that could be implemented in the future in the states in which the Company operates. Local and state governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which the Company has received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety, and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result, home sales could decline and costs increase, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations, which may increase costs, limit the areas in which the Company can build homes and delay completion of projects. The Company is also subject to a variety of local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site’s location, its environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause the Company to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas, which could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. Under various environmental laws, current or former owners of real estate, as well as certain other categories of parties, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, in those cases where an endangered species is involved, environmental rules and regulations can result in the elimination of development in identified environmentally sensitive areas. OTHER RISKS The Company may not be able to benefit from net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards. At December 31, 2010, the Company had gross federal and state net operating loss carry forwards totaling approximately $115.5 million and $386.3 million, respectively. Federal net operating loss carry forwards begin to expire in 2028; state net operating loss carry forwards begin to expire in 2013. The Company will only receive tax benefits for the NOL carry forwards if there is future taxable income before the applicable NOL expiration period. The Company has fully reserved against all of its deferred tax assets, including the NOL carry forward that was carried on the Company’s financial statements, due to the possibility that the Company may not have taxable income. However, these deferred tax assets will be available to the Company if there is sufficient future taxable income. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the armed conflicts in Iraq and 25 Table of Contents Afghanistan, may cause disruption to the economy, our Company, our employees and our customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, operating expenses, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 