Item 1a. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our securities. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our common stock. For purposes of these risk factors, the terms "we," "our" and "us" refer to iStar Financial Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in general economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our business. Our success is generally dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. and, in particular, the geographic areas in which a substantial number of our investments are located. Substantially all businesses, including ours, were negatively affected by the 2008/2009 economic recession and illiquidity and volatility in the commercial real estate and credit markets. Although there were early signs of an economic recovery and greater stability in the commercial real estate and credit markets beginning in 2010, it is not possible for us to predict whether these trends will continue in the future or quantify the impact of these or other trends on our financial results. A deterioration in economic trends could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our ability to meet our debt obligations. We have significant indebtedness and limitations on our liquidity and ability to raise capital may adversely affect us. Sufficient liquidity is critical to the management of our balance sheet and our ability to meet our scheduled debt payments. However, liquidity in the capital markets has been constrained since the beginning of the credit crisis, and our cost of funds has increased. During this time, we have primarily relied on secured borrowings, repayments on our loan assets and proceeds from asset sales to fund our operations and meet our debt maturities, and we expect to continue to rely on these sources of liquidity for the foreseeable future. After giving effect to the new secured credit Facility and subsequent repayments of debt (see Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplemental Data—Note 19"), we will have approximately $882 million of debt maturing and minimum required amortization payments due on or before December 31, 2011. Failure to repay or refinance our borrowings as they come due would have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have suffered adverse consequences as a result of our credit ratings being downgraded. Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. Our unsecured corporate credit ratings from major national credit rating agencies are currently below investment grade. Having below investment grade credit ratings has increased our borrowing costs and caused restrictive covenants in our public debt instruments to become operative. These factors have adversely impacted our financial performance and will continue to do so unless our credit ratings improve. Covenants in our indebtedness could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. Our outstanding unsecured debt securities contain covenants that include fixed charge coverage and unencumbered assets to unsecured indebtedness ratios. The fixed charge coverage ratio in our debt securities is an incurrence test. While we expect that our ability to incur new indebtedness under the coverage ratio will be limited for the foreseeable future, we will continue to be permitted to incur indebtedness for the purpose of refinancing existing indebtedness and for other permitted purposes under the indentures. The unencumbered assets to unsecured indebtedness covenant is a maintenance covenant. If any of our covenants is breached and not cured within applicable cure periods, the breach could result in 14 Table of Contents acceleration of our debt securities unless a waiver or modification is agreed upon with the requisite percentage of the bondholders. Our new secured credit Facility (see Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplemental Data—Note 19") contains certain covenants, including covenants relating to the delivery of information to the lenders, collateral coverage, dividend payments, restrictions on fundamental changes, transactions with affiliates and matters relating to the liens granted to the lenders. In particular, we are required to maintain collateral coverage of 1.25x outstanding borrowings. In addition, for so long as we maintain our qualification as a REIT, the new secured credit Facility permits us to distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis. We may not pay common dividends if we cease to qualify as a REIT. Our new secured credit Facility contains cross default provisions that would allow the lenders to declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if we fail to pay amounts due in respect of our other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds or if the lenders under such other indebtedness are otherwise permitted to accelerate such indebtedness for any reason. The indentures governing our unsecured public debt securities permit the lenders and bondholders to declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if we fail to pay amounts due at maturity in respect of other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds or if such indebtedness is accelerated. Our unsecured credit facilities permit the lenders to accelerate our indebtedness to them if our other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds is accelerated. The covenants described above could limit our flexibility. In addition, a default by us on our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We maintain loan loss reserves to protect against potential losses and conduct a review of the adequacy of these reserves on a quarterly basis. Our general loan loss reserve reflects management's then-current estimation of the probability and severity of losses within our portfolio, based on this quarterly review. In addition, our determination of asset-specific loan loss reserves relies on material estimates regarding the fair value of loan collateral. Estimation of ultimate loan losses, provision expenses and loss reserves is a complex and subjective process. As such, there can be no assurance that management's judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses. Such losses could be caused by factors including, but not limited to, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. In particular, our non-performing loans increased materially during the financial crisis, driven by the weak economy and the disruption of the credit markets which adversely impacted the ability and willingness of many of our borrowers to service their debt and refinance our loans to them at maturity. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate we may suffer additional losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies, and different estimates and assumptions could result in changes to our financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to our determination of the reserve for loan losses, which is based primarily on the estimated fair value of loan collateral, as well as the valuation of net lease, OREO and REHI assets and intangible assets. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could have a material adverse effect 15 Table of Contents on our financial performance and results of operations and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. We have suffered losses when a borrower defaults on a loan and the underlying collateral is not sufficient, and we may suffer additional losses in the future. We have suffered significant losses arising from borrower defaults on our loan assets and we may suffer additional losses in the future. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets collateralizing the loan. If the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. Conversely, we sometimes make loans that are unsecured or are secured only by equity interests in the borrowing entities. These loans are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrower. In the event of a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying real estate. In cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our loan or the underlying assets of the borrower prior to a default, and as a result the value of the collateral may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets. We sometimes obtain individual or corporate guarantees from borrowers or their affiliates, which are not secured. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our loans and guarantees. As a result of these factors, we may suffer additional losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower in order to satisfy our loan. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debts of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt receives payment. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through "standstill" periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase collection costs and losses and the time necessary to acquire title to the underlying collateral, during which time the collateral may decline in value, causing us to suffer additional losses. If the value of collateral underlying our loan declines or interest rates increase during the term of our loan, a borrower may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing. Decreasing collateral value and/or increasing interest rates may hinder a borrower's ability to refinance our loan because the underlying property cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. If a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer additional loss which may adversely impact our financial performance. We are subject to additional risks associated with loan participations. Some of our loans are participation interests or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to 16 Table of Contents which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of full control. We are subject to additional risk associated with foreclosed assets We have obtained title to several assets that have served as collateral on defaulted loans. These assets are classified as REHI or OREO, based on our intention to either hold the properties over a longer period or to market them for sale in the near term. The assets are predominantly land and substantially completed condominium/multi-family projects. We must incur costs to carry these assets and in some cases make improvements to or complete the assets. These activities require additional liquidity and also result in additional expenses that impact our operating results. In addition, to the extent we need to raise liquidity through asset sales, we may be limited in our ability to sell these assets in a short time frame. We currently have several loans that are in default and to the extent the borrowers cannot cure the default, we could take title to these assets, which would require additional liquidity and further increase our expenses. We may experience losses if the creditworthiness of our net lease asset tenants deteriorates and they are unable to meet their lease obligations. We own the properties leased to the tenants of our net lease assets and receive rents from the tenants during the contracted term of such leases. A tenant's ability to pay rent is determined by its creditworthiness, among other factors. If a tenant's credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under our lease and may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our net lease assets. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant's bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant's bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under a lease. In other circumstances, where a tenant's financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the total contractual rental amount. Without regard to the manner in which the lease termination occurs, we are likely to incur additional costs in the form of tenant improvements and leasing commissions in our efforts to lease the space to a new tenant. In any of the foregoing circumstances, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue. Lease expirations and lease terminations may result in reduced revenues if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring or terminating corporate tenants. In addition, lease defaults or lease terminations by one or more significant tenants or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases could cause us to experience long periods of vacancy with no revenue from a facility and to incur substantial capital expenditures and/or lease concessions in order to obtain replacement tenants. We are subject to risks relating to our asset concentration. Our portfolio consists primarily of large balance commercial real estate loans and net lease, OREO and REHI assets. Our asset base is generally diversified by asset type, obligor, property type and geographic location. However, as of December 31, 2010, approximately 23.2% of the carrying value of our assets related to apartment/residential assets, 16.3% related to land, 12.1% related to retail properties and 17 Table of Contents 10.0% related to office properties. All of these types of collateral have been adversely affected by the financial crisis. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, approximately 22.7% of the carrying value of our assets related to properties located in the western U.S., 20.7% related to properties located in the northeastern U.S., 10.2% related to properties located in the southwest U.S and 15.1% related to properties located in the southeastern U.S. These regions include areas such as Florida, California and Nevada that were particularly hard hit by the downturn in the residential real estate markets. We may suffer additional losses on our assets based on these concentrations. We underwrite the credit of prospective borrowers and customers and often require them to provide some form of credit support such as corporate guarantees, letters of credit and/or cash security deposits. Although our loans and other lending investments and net lease assets are geographically diverse and the borrowers and customers operate in a variety of industries, to the extent we have a significant concentration of interest or operating lease revenues from any single borrower or customer, the inability of that borrower or customer to make its payment could have an adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2010, our five largest borrowers or tenants of net lease assets collectively accounted for approximately 23.7% of our aggregate annualized interest and operating lease revenue, of which no single customer accounts for more than 6.0%. We compete with a variety of financing and leasing sources for our customers. The financial services industry and commercial real estate markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include finance companies, other REITs, commercial banks and thrift institutions, investment banks and hedge funds. Our competitors seek to compete aggressively on the basis of a number of factors including transaction pricing, terms and structure. We may have difficulty competing to the extent we are unwilling to match our competitors' deal terms in order to maintain our interest margins and/or credit standards. To the extent that we match competitors' pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased interest margins and/or increased risk of credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We face significant competition within our net leasing business from other owners, operators and developers of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in markets where we operate. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our properties, which may result in their owners being willing to rent space at lower rental rates than we would or providing greater tenant improvement allowances or other leasing concessions. This combination of circumstances could adversely affect our revenues and financial performance. We are subject to certain risks associated with investing in real estate, including potential liabilities under environmental laws and risks of loss from earthquakes and terrorism. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner of real estate (including, in certain circumstances, a secured lender that succeeds to ownership or control of a property) may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under or in its property. Those laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or control party knew of or was responsible for the release or presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial. The owner or control party of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from a site. Certain environmental laws also impose liability in connection with the handling of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, pursuant to which third parties may seek recovery from owners of real properties for personal injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. While a secured lender is not likely to be subject to these forms of environmental liability, when we foreclose on real property, we become an owner and are subject to the risks of environmental liability. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, under our net lease assets we require our tenants to undertake the obligation for environmental compliance and indemnify us from liability with respect thereto. There can be no assurance that our tenants will have sufficient resources to satisfy their obligations to us. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 26.8% of the carrying value of our assets was located in the Western and Northwestern United States, geographic areas at higher risk for earthquakes. In addition, a significant number of our properties are located in New York City and other major urban areas which, in recent years, have been high risk geographical areas for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Future earthquakes or acts of terrorism could adversely impact the demand for, and value of, our assets and could also directly impact the value of our assets through damage, destruction or loss, and could thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against these events. Although we believe our owned real estate and the properties collateralizing our loan assets are adequately covered by insurance, we cannot predict at this time if we or our borrowers will be able to obtain appropriate coverage at a reasonable cost in the future, or if we will be able to continue to pass along all of the costs of insurance to our tenants. Any earthquake or terrorist attack, whether or not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our Common Stock and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our property insurers may not be able to fulfill its obligations with respect to claims payments due to a deterioration in its financial condition. From time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate. From time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. These investments include but are not limited to: LNR Property Corporation ("LNR"), Oak Hill Advisors and other equity and mezzanine investments. Although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary business segments including, without limitation, advising corporate credit funds and special servicing of securitized debt. Consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. From time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. Investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. In addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. Declines in the market values of our equity investments may adversely affect periodic reported results. Most of our equity investments are in funds or companies that are not publicly traded and their fair value may not be readily determinable. We may periodically estimate the fair value of these investments, based upon available information and management's judgment. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time. In addition, our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments may be materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal, which could result in losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We may utilize derivative instruments to hedge risk, which may adversely affect our borrowing cost and expose us to other risks. The derivative instruments we use are typically in the form of interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps. Interest rate swaps effectively change variable-rate debt obligations to fixed-rate debt obligations or 19 Table of Contents fixed-rate debt obligations to variable-rate debt obligations. Foreign currency swaps limit our exposure to changes in currency rates in respect of certain investments denominated in foreign currencies. Our use of derivative instruments also involves the risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement could default on its obligation and the risk that we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if a hedging arrangement is terminated by us. As a matter of policy, we enter into hedging arrangements with counterparties that are large, creditworthy financial institutions typically rated at least "A/A2" by S&P and Moody's, respectively. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign currencies is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. There can be no assurance that any hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, reliance should not be placed on past quarterly results as indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in loan and net lease portfolio performance, levels of non-performing assets and related provisions, market values of investments, costs associated with debt, general economic conditions, the state of the real estate and financial markets and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets. Our ability to retain and attract key personnel is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management and the other key members of our management team and recruit additional qualified personnel. We rely in part on equity compensation to retain and incentivize our personnel. In addition, if members of our management join competitors or form competing companies, the competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. Efforts to retain or attract professionals may result in additional compensation expense, which could affect our financial performance. We are highly dependent on information systems, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. Our business is highly dependent on communications, information, financial and operational systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. We may change certain of our policies without stockholder approval. Our charter does not set forth specific percentages of the types of investments we may make. We can amend, revise or eliminate our investment financing and conflict of interest policies at any time at our discretion without a vote of our shareholders. A change in these policies could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our charter may inhibit a change in control. Generally, to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable year. The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. Under our charter, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of stock, with some exceptions. The restrictions 20 Table of Contents on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the security holders. We would be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT. We believe that we have been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1998. However, our qualification as a REIT has depended and will continue to depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. As a result of the current credit crisis, it may be difficult for us to meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT including, but not limited to, our distribution requirement. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our net taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, or "AMT," on our net taxable income at regular corporate rates, as well as applicable state and local taxes. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years following the year during which our REIT qualification was lost. As a result, cash available for distribution would be reduced for each of the years involved. Furthermore, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our REIT qualification to be revoked. Our new secured credit Facility (see Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplemental Data—Note 19") prohibits us from paying dividends on our common stock if we no longer qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or take other actions during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains each year, and we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, as well as applicable state and local taxes, to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. Our net taxable income could exceed our available cash flow as a result of, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the recognition of non-cash taxable income, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures or required debt principal repayments. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term, or possibly long-term, basis, sell assets or pay distributions in the form of taxable dividends of our common stock to meet our REIT distribution requirement, even if prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, asset dispositions or stock distributions. Certain of our activities are subject to taxes and could result in taxes allocated to our shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes on our income and property. We would be required to pay taxes on net taxable income that we fail to distribute to our shareholders. In addition, our "taxable REIT subsidiaries" are fully taxable corporations, and there are limitations on the ability of taxable REIT subsidiaries to make interest payments to affiliated REITs. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax to the extent our economic arrangements with our tenants or our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. We will also be subject to a 100% tax to the extent we derive income from the sale of assets to customers in the ordinary course of business. To the 21 Table of Contents extent we or our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay U.S. federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We do not intend to invest a material portion of our assets in real estate mortgage investment conduits, or "REMICs," or taxable mortgage pools. In the event we were to own REMIC or taxable mortgage pool residual interests, or treated as owning such residual interests, a portion of our income from these assets could be treated as "excess inclusion income." IRS guidance indicates that our excess inclusion income will be allocated among our shareholders in proportion to our dividends paid. A shareholder's share of our excess inclusion income (i) would not be allowed to be offset by any net operating losses otherwise available to the shareholder, (ii) would be subject to tax as unrelated business taxable income in the hands of most tax-exempt shareholders, and (iii) would result in the application of U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30%, without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty, in the hands of a non-U.S. shareholder. In addition, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate on our excess inclusion income allocated to "disqualified organizations" (generally, tax-exempt investors that are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on unrelated business taxable income, including governmental organizations and charitable remainder trusts) that hold our stock in record name. Further, the IRS has taken the position that broker/dealers and nominees holding our stock in "street name" on behalf of disqualified organizations are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate on our excess inclusion income allocated to such disqualified organizations. Similarly, a regulated investment company or other pass-through entity may be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest U.S. federal corporate income tax rate on our excess inclusion income to the extent such entities are owned by disqualified organizations. Our Investment Company Act exemption limits our investment discretion and loss of the exemption would adversely affect us. We believe that we currently are not, and we intend to operate our company so that we will not be, regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act because we are "primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate." Specifically, we are required to invest at least 55% of our assets in "qualifying real estate assets" (that is, real estate, mortgage loans and other qualifying interests in real estate), and at least an additional 25% of our assets in other "real estate-related assets," such as mezzanine loans and unsecured investments in real estate entities, or additional qualifying real estate assets. We will need to monitor our assets to ensure that we continue to satisfy the percentage tests. Maintaining our exemption from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act limits our ability to invest in assets that otherwise would meet our investment strategies. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, we could not operate our business efficiently under the regulatory scheme imposed on investment companies under the Investment Company Act, and we could be required to restructure our activities. This would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and the market price of our securities. 22 Table of Contents Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 