Item 1A. Risk Factors. We depend primarily on a small number of strategic marketing relationships—and one key strategic marketing relationship in particular—to identify prospective customers. The loss of one or more of our strategic marketing relationships, or a reduction in the referrals and leads they generate, would significantly reduce our future revenue and increase our expenses. As a key part of our strategy, we have entered into agreements with a number of companies pursuant to which these parties provide us with access to their customer lists and allow us to use their names in marketing our Web 12 services and products. Approximately 93% of our new customers in the year ended December 31, 2005, were identified through our strategic marketing relationships. We believe these strategic marketing relationships are critical to our business because they enable us to penetrate our target market with a minimum expenditure of resources. If these strategic marketing relationships are terminated or otherwise fail, our revenue would likely decline significantly and we could be required to devote additional resources to the sale and marketing of our Web services and products. We have no long-term contracts with these organizations, and these organizations are generally not restricted from working with our competitors. Accordingly, our success will depend upon the willingness of these organizations to continue these strategic marketing relationships. Our strategic marketing relationship with Discover Financial Services, Inc., or Discover, is particularly important to us and accounted for approximately 73% of our new customers in the year ended December 31, 2005. Customers attributable to our relationship with Discover represented approximately 57% of our total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2005. We expect that customer relationships enabled by our strategic marketing relationship with Discover will continue to account for a significant portion of our new customers and our revenue in the future. Discover is under no obligation to continue to contract with us or continue this strategic marketing relationship, and either Discover or we can terminate our agreement with short notice and no penalty. Additionally, this agreement expires pursuant to its terms in November 2006, and we cannot assure you that the agreement will be extended or renewed. We therefore cannot assure you that we will continue to have a relationship with Discover. If our strategic marketing relationship with Discover ends, we will need to take remedial measures to generate customer leads, which could be expensive, and if such efforts fail, our business would be materially harmed. To successfully execute our business plan, we must also establish new strategic marketing relationships with additional organizations that have strong relationships with small and medium-sized businesses that would enable us to identify additional prospective customers. If we are unable to diversify and extend our strategic marketing relationships, our ability to grow our business may be compromised. Most of our Web services are sold on a month-to-month basis, and if our customers either are unable or choose not to subscribe to our Web services, our revenue may decrease. Typically, our Web service offerings are sold pursuant to month-to-month subscription agreements, and our customers can generally cancel their subscriptions to our Web services at any time with little or no penalty. Historically, we have experienced a high turnover rate in our customer base. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, 56% and 52%, respectively, of our subscribers who were customers at the beginning of the respective year were no longer subscribers at the end of the respective year. While we cannot determine with certainty why our subscription renewal rates are not higher, we believe there are a variety of factors, which have in the past led, and may in the future lead, to a decline in our subscription renewal rates. These factors include the cessation of our customers’ businesses, the overall economic environment in the United States and its impact on small and medium-sized businesses, the services and prices offered by us and our competitors, and the evolving use of the Internet by small and medium-sized businesses. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers demand renewal terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decrease, which could adversely affect our stock price. If economic or other factors negatively affect the small and medium-sized business sector, our customers may become unwilling or unable to purchase our Web services and products, which could cause our revenue to decline and impair our ability to operate profitably. Our existing and target customers are small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our Web services and products. If small and medium-sized businesses experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources to develop their Internet presences, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our services and products and could cause our revenue to decline. 13 We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or technologies, which may result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consume resources that may be necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire complementary services, technologies or businesses. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; and • incur debt that could have terms unfavorable to us or that we might be unable to repay. Business acquisitions also involve the risk of unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including securing the services of key employees. Incurring unknown liabilities or the failure to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could seriously harm our business. We may find it difficult to integrate recent and potential future business combinations, which could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our operating results. During the course of our history, we have completed several acquisitions of other businesses, and a key element of our strategy is to continue to acquire other businesses in the future. In particular, we completed the LEADS.com and EBOZ acquisitions in April 2005. Integrating these recently acquired businesses and any businesses we may acquire in the future could add significant complexity to our business and additional burdens to the substantial tasks already performed by our management team. In the future, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do, we may not be able to complete these acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. In connection with our recent and possible future acquisitions, we may need to integrate operations that have different and unfamiliar corporate cultures. Likewise, we may need to integrate disparate technologies and Web service and product offerings, as well as multiple direct and indirect sales channels. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to continue to work for us. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management’s attention from existing business operations. Our failure to successfully manage and integrate LEADS.com, EBOZ, or any future acquisitions could seriously harm our business. We have only recently become profitable and may not maintain our level of profitability. Although we generated net income for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we have not historically been profitable, were not profitable in any other period since our inception, and may not be profitable in future periods. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $68.0 million. We expect that our expenses relating to the sale and marketing of our Web services, to technology improvements and to general and administrative functions, as well as the costs of operating and maintaining our technology infrastructure, will increase in the future. Accordingly, we will need to increase our revenue to be able to maintain our profitability. We may not be able to reduce in a timely manner or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our operating results and our level of profitability. Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in our performance may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model, and the unpredictability of our emerging industry, our operating results are difficult to predict. We expect to experience fluctuations in our operating and financial results due to a number of factors, such as: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ requirements; 14 • the renewal rates for our services; • changes in our pricing policies; • the introduction of new services and products by us or our competitors; • the rate of expansion and effectiveness of our sales force; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; • general economic conditions; • additional investment in our services or operations; • bulk licenses of our software; and • our success in maintaining and adding strategic marketing relationships. These factors and others all tend to make the timing and amount of our revenue unpredictable and may lead to greater period-to-period fluctuations in revenue than we have experienced historically. As a result of these factors, we believe that our quarterly revenue and results of operations are likely to vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our business depends in part on our ability to continue to provide value-added Web services and products, many of which we provide through agreements with third parties, and our business will be harmed if we are unable to provide these Web services and products in a cost-effective manner. A key element of our strategy is to combine a variety of functionalities in our Web service offerings to provide our customers with comprehensive solutions to their Internet presence needs, such as Internet search optimization, local yellow pages listings, and e-commerce capability. We provide many of these services through arrangements with third parties, and our continued ability to obtain and provide these services at a low cost is central to the success of our business. For example, we currently have agreements with several service providers that enable us to provide, at a low cost, Internet yellow pages advertising. However, these agreements may be terminated on short notice, typically 60 to 90 days, and without penalty. If any of these third parties were to terminate their relationships with us, or to modify the economic terms of these arrangements, we could lose our ability to provide these services at a cost-effective price to our customers, which could cause our revenue to decline or our costs to increase. Our systems, and those of our co-location provider, are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected problems that could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data, or the inability to accept and fulfill customer subscriptions. Our network operating center, containing substantially all of our communications hardware, nearly all of our non-sales staff, and much of our other computer hardware operations is located in Jacksonville, Florida. Likewise, the facilities of our third-party co-location provider are located in Jacksonville, Florida. Additionally, one of our sales centers, from which the majority of our sales are made, is located in Spokane, Washington. Hurricanes, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, computer sabotage, and similar events could damage or destroy these systems and facilities and temporarily stop a majority of our business activities in fulfilling customer orders and in securing new customers. Our business could be seriously harmed, our revenues could decline and we could be required to make significant expenditures if our systems were damaged or destroyed, or if our customer fulfillment were delayed or stopped, by any of these occurrences. 15 We rely heavily on the reliability, security, and performance of our internally developed systems and operations, and any difficulties in maintaining these systems may result in service interruptions, decreased customer service, or increased expenditures. The software and workflow processes that underlie our ability to deliver our Web services and products have been developed primarily by our own employees. The reliability and continuous availability of these internal systems are critical to our business, and any interruptions that result in our inability to timely deliver our Web services or products, or that materially impact the efficiency or cost with which we provide these Web services and products, would harm our reputation, profitability, and ability to conduct business. In addition, many of the software systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products, either of which could entail considerable effort and expense. If we fail to develop and execute reliable policies, procedures, and tools to operate our infrastructure, we could face a substantial decrease in workflow efficiency and increased costs, as well as a decline in our revenue. We face intense and growing competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be seriously harmed. The market for our Web services and products is competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. Our competitors vary in size and in the variety of services they offer. We encounter competition from a wide variety of company types, including: • Website design and development service and software companies; • Internet service providers and application service providers; • Internet search engine providers; • Local business directory providers; and • Website domain name providers and hosting companies. In addition, due to relatively low barriers to entry in our industry, we expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future from other established and emerging companies. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations and formations of alliances among industry participants. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, greater brand recognition and, we believe, a larger installed base of customers. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services and products than we can. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our revenue could increase less than anticipated or decline, and our business could be harmed. Our failure to build brand awareness quickly could compromise our ability to compete and to grow our business. As a result of the anticipated increase in competition in our market, and the likelihood that some of this competition will come from companies with established brands, we believe brand name recognition and reputation will become increasingly important. Our strategy of relying significantly on third-party strategic marketing relationships to find new customers may impede our ability to build brand awareness, as our customers may wrongly believe our Web services and products are those of the parties with which we have strategic marketing relationships. If we do not continue to build brand awareness quickly, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to companies whose brands are more recognizable than ours. 16 If our security measures are breached, our services may be perceived as not being secure, and our business and reputation could suffer. Our Web services involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ proprietary information. Although we employ data encryption processes, an intrusion detection system, and other internal control procedures to assure the security of our customers’ data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, and as a result our customers’ data becomes available to unauthorized parties, we could incur liability and our reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Accounting for acquisitions under generally accepted accounting principles could adversely affect our reported financial results. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we could be required to record charges for in-process research and development or other charges in connection with future acquisitions, which would reduce any future reported earnings or increase any future reported loss. Acquisitions could also require us to record substantial amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. For example, in connection with our recent acquisitions of LEADS.com and EBOZ, we have recorded $10.7 million of goodwill. Any future impairment of this goodwill, and the ongoing amortization of other intangible assets, could adversely affect our reported financial results. If we cannot adapt to technological advances, our Web services and products may become obsolete and our ability to compete would be impaired. Changes in our industry occur very rapidly, including changes in the way the Internet operates or is used by small and medium-sized businesses and their customers. As a result, our Web services and products could become obsolete quickly. The introduction of competing products employing new technologies and the evolution of new industry standards could render our existing products or services obsolete and unmarketable. To be successful, our Web services and products must keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards, address the ever-changing and increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers, and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop new Web services or products, or enhancements to our Web services or products, on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if new Web services or products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business would be seriously harmed. Providing Web services and products to small and medium-sized businesses designed to allow them to Internet-enable their businesses is a new and emerging market; if this market fails to develop, we will not be able to grow our business. Our success depends on a significant number of small and medium-sized business outsourcing Website design, hosting, and management as well as adopting other online business solutions. The market for our Web services and products is relatively new and untested. Custom Website development has been the predominant method of Internet enablement, and small and medium-sized businesses may be slow to adopt our template-based Web services and products. Further, if small or medium-sized businesses determine that having an Internet presence is not giving their businesses an advantage, they would be less likely to purchase our Web services and products. If the market for our Web services and products fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, or if our Web services and products fail to achieve widespread customer acceptance, our business would be seriously harmed. 17 We are dependent on our executive officers, and the loss of any key member of this team may compromise our ability to successfully manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. Our future performance depends largely on the continuing service of our executive officers and senior management team, especially those of David Brown, our chief executive officer. Our executives are not contractually obligated to remain employed by us. Accordingly, any of our key employees could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty and may go to work for one or more of our competitors after the expiration of their non-compete period. The loss of one or more of our executive officers could make it more difficult for us to pursue our business goals and could seriously harm our business. Our growth could strain our resources and our business may suffer if we fail to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth in employees and operations, with our employee base increasing from 305 full-time employees as of December 31, 2004, to 405 full-time employees as of December 31, 2005. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management, administrative, and sales and marketing infrastructure. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, our business could be disrupted, and our ability to operate our business profitably could suffer. We anticipate that further growth in our employee base will be required to expand our customer base and to continue to develop and enhance our Web service and product offerings. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. This will require additional personnel and capital investments, which will increase our cost base. The growth in our fixed cost base may make it more difficult for us to reduce expenses in the short term to offset any shortfalls in revenue. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or cost-effectively, which may cause us to lose market share or force us to reduce our prices. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect and preserve the proprietary aspects of our technology, Web services, and products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market services and products similar to those offered by us, which could decrease demand for our Web services and products. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our proprietary assets without our authorization. We do not currently rely on patents we own to protect our core intellectual property, and we have not applied for patents in any jurisdictions inside or outside of the United States. To protect, control access to, and limit distribution of our intellectual property, we generally enter into confidentiality and proprietary inventions agreements with our employees, and confidentiality or license agreements with consultants, third-party developers, and customers. We also rely on copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be inadequate. Enforcing our rights to our technology could be costly, time-consuming and distracting. Additionally, others may develop non-infringing technologies that are similar or superior to ours. Any significant failure or inability to adequately protect our proprietary assets will harm our business and reduce our ability to compete. Our growth will be adversely affected if we cannot continue to successfully retain, hire, train, and manage our key employees, particularly in the telesales and customer service areas. Our ability to successfully pursue our growth strategy will depend on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees across our business. We have many key employees throughout our organization who do not have non-competition agreements and may leave to work for a competitor at any time. In particular, we are substantially dependent on our telesales and customer service employees to obtain and service new customers. Competition for such personnel and others can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, integrate, or retain additional highly qualified personnel in the future. In addition, our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue will depend, in large part, on our success in effectively training sufficient personnel in these two areas. New hires require significant training and in some cases may take up to three months before 18 they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we have our facilities. If we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, or hiring, training and integrating new employees, or if our current or future employees perform poorly, growth in the sales of our services and products may not materialize and our business will suffer. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results, which could cause our stock price to fall or result in our stock being delisted. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports. We will need to devote significant resources and time to comply with the new requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley with respect to internal control over financial reporting. In addition, Section 404 under Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we assess and our auditors attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirement for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006, which is the first time these new requirements will apply to us, will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across our company and our operating subsidiaries. We expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. To effectively manage this complexity, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and jeopardize our listing on the NASDAQ National Market, either of which would harm our stock price. We cannot assure you what the market price of our common stock will be or that a public market for our common stock will be sustained. Our common stock has only recently become publicly traded, and we cannot assure you that a public market for our common stock will be sustained. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest will lead to the development of an active and liquid trading market. Our stock price may be volatile, and you may lose some or all of your investment. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include, among other things: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • sales of our common stock, including sales by officers, directors and funds affiliated with them; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. In addition, our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ National Market. There are continuing eligibility requirements for companies listed on the NASDAQ National Market. If we are not able to continue to satisfy the eligibility requirements of the NASDAQ National Market, then our stock may be delisted. This could result in a lower price of our common stock and may limit the ability of our stockholders to sell our stock, any of which could result in your losing some or all of your investment. 19 We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new services and products or enhance our existing Web services, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock, including shares of common stock sold in this offering. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired. There may be an adverse effect on the market price of our stock as a result of shares being available for sale in the future. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 16,509,602 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 6,805,924 shares are freely tradable, 6,712,499 shares will be eligible for sale following the expiration of lock-up agreements on or about May 1, 2006, and 2,991,179 shares will become available for sale in the public market on subsequent dates. Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc., on behalf of the underwriters, may release these stockholders from their lock-up agreements with the underwriters at any time and without notice, which would allow for earlier sale of shares in the public market. Moreover, the holders of 6,670,406 shares of common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file ourselves or for other stockholders. We also have registered up to 6,347,667 shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding stock options or reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plans, and these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance if not otherwise subject to lock up or other restrictions. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, or the market perceives that these holders intend to sell a large number of securities, the sales or perceived sales could result in a substantial reduction in the trading price of our common stock or impede our ability to raise future capital. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders whose interests are different from those of our officers, directors, and principal stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or under Delaware law might discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company 20 or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed for cause and only with the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders; • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 