D. Risk Factors Readers are cautioned that an investment in Jacada is subject to a number of risks. Readers should consider carefully all information set forth herein and in particular the following risks in connection with an investment in Jacada: Risks Related to Our Business Weak and uncertain global economic conditions, including continued credit constraints, could continue to adversely affect us. Disruption during recent years and the continued conditions in the global credit markets, failures or material business deterioration of investment banks, commercial banks, and other financial institutions and intermediaries in the United States and elsewhere around the world, the economic conditions in Europe and significant reductions in asset values across businesses, households and individuals, combined with other financial and economic indicators, have caused ongoing economic weakness and uncertainty. These conditions have been adversely affecting our results of operations. If these conditions continue or worsen, they may result in further reduced demand or funding for projects involving our customer service and support solutions, longer sales cycle for our projects or termination of projects by our customers, which may further adversely affect our results of operations. Among other things, we might face: · further potential declines in orders for our customer service and support solutions and in our revenues from such solutions due to reduced or postponed orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers; · longer sales processes and a need for increased efforts to secure projects in order to be able to demonstrate to customers and prospective customers return on investment that meets such customers’ and prospective customers’ business needs and requirements in current economic conditions; · an adverse impact on our customers’ ability to pay, when due, amounts payable to us, or on our ability to collect amounts payable to us in full (or at all) if any of our customers fail or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws; and · a re-evaluation by our customers and prospective customers of approved or contracted projects in order to address budget reductions or other impacts and factors of the current economic conditions by such customers and prospective customers. Any of these consequences could further adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. These economic conditions also impact our ability to forecast orders and revenues and our ability to provide guidance for our performance. 4 If members of our new management team are unable to fully transition into their respective new positions, our operations will be adversely affected. Several members of our management team joined us during 2012. If those new management members are unable to successfully transition into their respective positions, our operations will be adversely affected. Our business model is focused on continued growth in a market in which we have only several years of experience. Failure to continue our penetration into this market would negatively impact our results of operations. We have focused on the customer service and support market since 2004. In the third quarter of 2012 we introduced Jacada Mobile Agent, our mobile customer service product offering, designed to improve the customer experience, by offering sophisticated self-service capabilities to smart phone and mobile device users. With this product introduction, we have entered the mobile customer service market. We have limited experience in this evolving market. Our limited experience and knowledge regarding the mobile customer service and support market may impede our ability to sell our products and result in decreased revenues and increased losses. In addition, we intend to continue to invest in research and development for products in the mobile self service market, as well as products for other self service methods such as IVR, web and social media. Failure to have our research and development efforts result in marketable products, and ultimately revenue-producing products, could result in increased losses. We must continue our investment in our sales and marketing efforts, including our indirect distribution channels, in order to increase market awareness of our products and to generate increased revenues. Our sales and marketing teams have limited resources. During 2009 and 2010, we reduced the size of our direct sales and marketing teams as part of our cost control measures. The size of our current sales and marketing departments may not be sufficient to increase market awareness or identify and qualify a sufficient number of sales opportunities to assist in revenue growth. In addition, we believe that in certain markets our future success may be dependent upon the expansion of our indirect distribution channels, consisting of relationships with partners, system integrators, call center outsourcers, resellers and distributors. During 2012, we had relationships with a limited number of partners. The number and quality of the partnerships we maintain may not be sufficient to allow us to expand into certain markets. Our future growth will be limited if: · our sales and marketing teams fail to increase market awareness of our products and generate increased revenues; · we fail to work effectively with our indirect distribution partners; · there is a decrease in the willingness or ability of our indirect distribution partners to devote sufficient resources and efforts to market, sale and support our products; or · we fail to increase the number of indirect distribution partners with which we have relationships. If any of these circumstances occurs, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the sales, marketing, distribution, implementation, customization and support of our products than we otherwise would, which would negatively impact our operating results. 5 We do not have a proven business model for the mobile customer service and support market; if our business model is inappropriate for this market and our estimates regarding the sales cycle for this market are incorrect, our efforts to successfully commercialize our mobile customer service and support solutions may be harmed or we will experience a further delay in generating revenues from these products. Our recent product offering, Jacada Mobile Agent is being offered to the market under a different pricing model then our other customer service and support products. Therefore, we do not have enough experience to determine whether our business model is correct and appropriate for new sales or follow-on sales. In the event that our chosen business model is inappropriate, we may need to modify it and adjust the manner in which we sell these products in order to close subsequent transactions. This required adjustment may adversely affect our revenues and expense levels. Our revenues may further decline if we do not increase the number of transactions that we effect in 2013. If we fail to sign a sufficient number of new transactions in 2013 for which we recognize revenue in 2013, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected, as was the case in 2012, in which we experienced a decline in revenues. Because our solutions are complex and generally involve significant capital expenditures by customers, we may invest significant time and expense in trying to make a sale to a potential customer that ultimately chooses not to purchase our solutions. Our sales typically involve significant capital investment decisions by prospective customers, and often require us to expend a significant amount of time to educate prospective customers as to the benefits of our solutions, especially given current economic conditions. As a result, before purchasing our solutions, companies spend a substantial amount of time performing internal reviews and obtaining approvals. On occasion, we may be required to perform a proof of technology where we must prove the benefits of our technology in a prospect’s specific business environment. While these are typically performed for a fee, they may be performed at no charge or at a substantially reduced fee, thereby increasing our cost of sale with limited or no funds to cover the cost. Even if our solutions are effective, our target customers may not choose them for technical, cost, support or other reasons. Revenues from our customer service and support solutions might be concentrated in a few large orders and a small number of customers, meaning that the loss of a significant customer or a failure to make even a small number of such sales could harm our results of operations. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, revenues from our customer service and support solutions were derived from large orders from a small number of customers. In 2012, 2011 and 2010, two customers accounted for 40%, 50% and 44% of our total revenues, respectively. Currently, we believe that our revenues will continue to be dependent on a relatively limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future, and we cannot assure you that we will make repeat sales to these customers. We also cannot assure you that new customers will purchase our products and services in the future. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or significant reductions in sales from a key customer would significantly reduce our revenues and make it significantly more difficult for us to become profitable. Competition in the market in which we operate is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our products may be reduced. The markets in which we operate are competitive and subject to change. Our products compete with other customer experience optimization and customer service solutions offered by other vendors including NICE Systems, OpenSpan, Pega Systems and Kana. In addition, with our new product offering, Jacada Mobile Agent, we face new competitors in the mobile customer service space, including Voxeo, Fonolo and Interactive Intelligence. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. 6 In addition, our potential customers may choose to deploy traditional CRM application software, or utilize their own information technology personnel or system integrators to write new code or rewrite existing applications in an effort to develop their own customer service and support solutions. As a result, prospective clients may decide against purchasing and implementing externally-developed solutions such as ours. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger customer bases than we do. Our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to ours; adapt more quickly than us to new technologies, evolving industry trends or customer requirements; or devote greater resources than we do to the development, promotion and sale of products. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, competition may intensify and future competition may harm our business. We rely on our key personnel and key management members, whose knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be extremely difficult to replace. Our future success depends, to a certain degree, on the continued services of key management, as well as on our sales and technical personnel. The loss of services of any of our key management for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the markets in which we recruit. As a result, our ability to recruit and retain qualified candidates may be limited. Our revenues could be adversely affected if we fail to recruit and retain consultants and other technical service personnel. Sales of our customer service and support solutions require in many cases advance sales activity involving consultants and post-sale implementation and customization. We rely on our staff of professional consultants, other technical service personnel and subcontractors to implement our solutions after they are purchased by our customers. Unless we are able to recruit and retain professional consultants, other technical service personnel and subcontractors, or hire and train such personnel and subcontractors to replace those who leave us, it will be difficult for us to implement our solutions and obtain customer acceptance and to increase or possibly even maintain our present level of sales due to constraints on our capacity to implement sales. Our future growth will be adversely affected and our future operating results may be adversely affected if we fail to develop and introduce new functionality for our products and new products for the customer service and support market or if our new products fail to achieve market acceptance. In order to achieve sales growth we will need to develop and introduce new functionality for our customer service and support solutions and new products for our target market. Our ability to do so requires us to invest significant resources in research and development and in sales and marketing. If we fail to develop, integrate and market new functionality or new products successfully, we may not be able to recover our research and development expenditures or our sales and marketing expenditures, which would adversely impact our operating results. Specifically, we have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources in the development and marketing of our mobile customer service product offerings as well as products for other customer care self service methods such as IVR, web and social media. This segment of the customer service and support market is an evolving market and failure to achieve market acceptance of our products in this space may result in a failure to recover our development and marketing expenditures, which would adversely impact our operating results. 7 A majority of our revenues derives from the provision of professional services. We derive our revenues from license fees for our software products; fees for professional services (which include customization, implementation, and integration of our solutions); training; and maintenance and support services. In 2012, 2011, 2010 and2009 services revenues constituted a majority of our total revenues. Services revenues have lower gross margins than software revenues. If we do not increase the portion of our total revenues attributable to software license fees or if we do not increase our professional services gross margins, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Failure to deliver professional services efficiently could negatively impact our gross margins. Our limited experience and knowledge regarding the customer services and support market generally and the delivery of our products and solutions for this new market specifically may impact the efficiency of our professional services deliveries, as we may need to expend more resources in the delivery of professional services to a customer than we had originally estimated. Any such extraneous expenditure of resources may negatively impact our professional services gross margins and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Additionally, failure to deliver professional services efficiently and to our customers’ satisfaction may increase the potential of termination of projects by our customers, especially given current economic conditions, since customers may be less flexible concerning budget and delivery dates. In previous years, we experienced fluctuations in our periodic results of operations, which resulted, and may continue to result, in volatility in our share price. In previous years we experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in our results of operations. Factors that have contributed and may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations include: our ability to deliver our implementation and customization projects; customer acceptance of our products and solutions; the size and timing of orders; general economic conditions; market awareness; the capital spending patterns of our customers; customer concentration; and the timing of our product introductions or enhancements or that of our competitors or providers of complementary products. Because of these and other factors, our periodic revenues may fluctuate materially, especially in the current economic conditions. Therefore, the results of past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may again be below expectations of public market analysts or investors, which may cause our share price to decline. Market factors, including the volume of shares traded and the market in which our shares are traded, may impact the volatility of our share price. The market price of our shares is volatile and the volume of the daily trading of our shares is very low. Effective October 2012, trading in our shares was transferred from the NASDAQ Global Market to the OTBQB Marketplace, a result of our failure to maintain the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market. Our shares may furthermore be voluntarily deregistered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. Therefore you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all and you may have access to less information about us. The risks described in this Item 3.D may adversely affect our share price. Our share price, like that of many technology companies, may be subject to volatility. The volume of trading of our ordinary shares has also been very low, a factor that adversely impacts your ability to resell our shares. Our share price may be adversely affected by changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts, changes in the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us, and changes in market valuations of similar companies. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. 8 As a public company with fewer than 300 shareholders, we are also eligible to deregister our stock under the Exchange Act, and may decide to do so in the future in order to avoid the costs and resource demands related to being a public company in the United States. In the event that we take such action, we would no longer be required to file current or annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and would no longer be subject to various substantive requirements of Exchange Act regulations, which would reduce the amount of information available to investors about us. Any deregistration under the Exchange Act would adversely impact your ability to sell our shares in the market due to the resulting reduction in demand and loss in liquidity for our shares. Since our shares are traded in the over-the-counter market in the OTCQB, our shares may have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, including lower trading volumes, delays in the timing of transactions, reduced securities analyst and news coverage, and lower market prices. In such case, we will be unable to ensure that market makers will make a market in our ordinary shares or that trading of our ordinary shares will continue in the United States. A deregistration could also have other adverse effects, including limitations on our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing that we need in the future, and a reduction in confidence in our company by current or prospective employees, customers, suppliers and others with whom we have, or may seek to initiate, business relationships. We could be treated as a “passive foreign investment company”, which would have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders of our shares. In such case, U.S. holders should consider making certain elections to avoid any accompanying adverse consequences. As a non-U.S. company, we could potentially be treated as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, if either (1) at least 75% of our gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” (which we refer to as the Income Test) or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income” (which we refer to as the Asset Test). Please see the discussion under “Item 10E. Taxation” for further details regarding these tests. We believe that we are not a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes and we will attempt to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status, to the extent consistent with our other business goals, but we cannot predict whether our business plans will allow us to avoid PFIC status in the future or whether our business plans will change in a manner that affects our PFIC determination. Ultimately, our status is a factual determination made annually and may be subject to change. For 2009, we relied on a specific exemption from PFIC status, which requires, among other conditions, that we were never treated as a PFIC and that we were not treated as a PFIC in the next two following years. If we were determined to be PFIC in any preceding year, or in either 2010 or 2011, we would not have satisfied this exemption and would have been deemed to have been a PFIC also in 2009. For 2010, 2011 and 2012, we passed both the Income Test and the Asset Test, as calculated using the “Domestic Look-through Rule” discussed below, and were therefore not considered a PFIC. In 2010, we invested $9.9 million of our cash in the common stock of various U.S. corporations. We believe that under the “Domestic Look-through Rule” of Section 1298(b)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code, such stock is considered a non-passive asset for purposes of the Asset Test described above. As a result, we were in compliance with the Income Test and Asset Test in 2010, 2011 and 2012 and were not considered a PFIC. However, should the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, determine that, in its opinion, such common stock is a passive asset, we will have failed the Income Test and Asset Test and would be considered a PFIC. 9 If we are determined to be a PFIC, a U.S. Holder, as described in “Item 10E Taxation”, may be subject to less advantageous tax consequences upon the sale, exchange or receipt of dividends with respect to our ordinary shares and may be required to pay United States federal income tax at ordinary income rates for gains, dividends, as well as an interest charge on certain “excess distributions,” as explained later on. Certain elections may mitigate these consequences and the making of these elections, or “protective elections”, may be particularly relevant this year given that our PFIC status depends on our non-PFIC status for all years prior to 2009 and on our not being a PFIC in both 2010 and 2011, and a favorable determination by the IRS as to the status of our common stocks held as marketable securities as non-passive assets for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. See “Item 10E Taxation” for a more comprehensive discussion of our status in connection with the PFIC rules, our strategies for attempting to manage this risk and the United States federal income tax consequences if we were to be treated as a PFIC. We expect to be subject to increasing risks of international operations. Currently we market and sell our products and services primarily in North America and Europe, from which areas we received approximately 97% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Managing our operations in North America and Europe requires significant management attention and financial resources. Further, we currently have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products in regions other than North America and Europe. In 2012, we expanded our sales efforts into other international areas including India and Russia and expect to expand into Latin America in 2013. Our inability to increase our worldwide operations successfully could adversely impact our business. Our products may contain unknown defects that could harm our reputation, result in product liability or decrease market acceptance of our products. Our products may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced any material software defects to date, defects could cause our customers to experience system failures. Our customers depend on our software for their critical systems and business functions. Any errors or defects could: · damage our reputation; · increase our product development costs; · divert our product development resources; · expose us to monetary damages; · cause us to lose future sales; · negatively impact our services margins due to additional investment to correct product errors; · damage our ability to deliver our solutions to the customer; or · delay or diminish market acceptance of our products. 10 Although we conduct extensive testing, we may not discover software defects that affect our products or enhancements until after they are sold. Furthermore, we are unable to test our products in each of the applications in which they are designed to work. Certain of our products contain technology that we acquired or licensed from third parties. Because we did not develop the technology ourselves, there may be errors in the technology of which we are not aware. In addition, our products are integrated with our customers’ networks and software applications. The sale and support of our products may expose us to the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on damage to these networks or applications caused by the technology we developed or the technology developed by a third party and acquired by us. In addition, the failure of our products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to warranty or other claims. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation or divert management’s attention and resources. We may not have sufficient funds or insurance coverage to satisfy any or all liability that may be imposed upon us with respect to these claims. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses in our controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Negative conditions in the global credit and stock markets may impair the liquidity and value of our investment portfolio. We invest our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries with and in the custody of financial institutions with high credit ratings. In 2010, we invested $9.9 million of our cash in the common stock of various highly capitalized publicly traded corporations. See “Item 10E Taxation” for more information regarding the purposes of these investments. In 2011, we sold the stock of one such corporation, resulting in proceeds of $1.6 million. In 2012, we sold portions of all of the common stocks in our portfolio, resulting in proceeds of $5.6 million. As of December 31, 2012, the outstanding fair value of the remaining investments was $5.8 million. While our investment policy and strategy attempt to manage interest rate risk, limit credit risk, limit stock market risk, and limit our investments to what we view as high-quality securities, the outlook for our investment holdings is dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial and stock markets, which can all affect the income that we receive, the value of our investments, and our ability to sell them. We believe that our marketable securities are carried at fair value. However, over time the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in unrealized or realized losses relating to other than temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions, there is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. In addition, the investments in common stock that we made in 2010 are subject to risks associated with the stock market and the risks associated with each particular company whose common stock we hold, and if we need to liquidate some or all of those investments in order to access cash, we may be forced to sell such investments at a loss. 11 Exchange rate fluctuations between the dollar and other currencies may negatively affect our results of operation. Our results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars, however, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are generated and incurred outside of the United States and in currencies other than the U.S dollar, particularly in NIS (New Israeli Shekels), English Pounds and Euros. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk. Specifically, our sales in Europe and our expenses in Israel and Europe are recorded in local currencies. This exposes us to the direct risk of local currency devaluations or fluctuations against the U.S dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which our costs are incurred or revenues are recorded and the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations in the major foreign currencies in which we operate. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively limit all of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our technology may be subject to infringement claims or may be infringed upon. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our technology. Most of our intellectual property, other than our trademarks, consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Although we do not believe that our products infringe upon any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that one or more persons will not make a claim of infringement against us. Any claims, with or without merit, could: · be expensive and time-consuming to defend; · cause product shipment and installation delays; · divert management’s attention and resources; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or may not be available at all. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales. Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us via varying license structures but include the general public license. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products that are integrated with these technologies. For example, in the event we integrate into one of our products a technology covered under the general public license, we may be required to disclose our source code for the integrated product. Disclosing our source code could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs, and thereby materially adversely affect our competitive advantage, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. 12 A successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business (including our intellectual property) and reputation. The safeguarding of our information technology infrastructure is important to our business. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information, resulting in adverse business impact. Adverse effects could include: · adversely affected future results of operations due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of our or our customers' confidential data or our intellectual property; · operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and · negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and we maintain significant operations in Israel. Certain of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you might not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of such persons. Additionally, you might not be able to bring civil actions under United States securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. We have been advised by our Israeli counsel that, subject to certain limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a final executory judgment of a United States court for liquidated amounts in civil matters after a hearing in Israel, provided that certain conditions are met. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Conditions in and around Israel could adversely affect our operations. Because our research and development facilities are located in Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Despite the negotiations towards peace between Israel and certain of its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain. From October 2000 until recently, there was a significant increase in violence primarily in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have ceased for periods of time. In January 2006, Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates in the Palestinian Parliament and the tension among the different Palestinian factions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Hamas does not recognize Israel's right to exist as a state and Israel considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization. During December 2008 and January 2009, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas and during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. In November 2012, when Hamas increased the scope and intensity of its rocket attacks against Israeli civilian targets, Israel commenced a military operation in Gaza in an attempt to prevent the rocket attacks and disrupt the capabilities of the militant organization. These recent conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. There can be no assurance that attacks on Israel will not reach our facilities, which could result in significant disruption of our business. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a significant increase in terrorism or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially adversely affect our operations. In addition, the current tension between the Western world and Israel, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Iran, on the other hand, over the latter’s nuclear weapons program carries with it the potential for armed conflict that may involve Israel. Any renewed hostilities or other factors related to Israel could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business or adversely affect our share price. 13 Generally, all non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 (or older, for citizens with certain occupations), including some of our officers, directors and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The absence of these employees for significant periods may cause us difficulties in our operations. Additionally, a number of countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel or Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. Any failure to obtain the tax benefits from the State of Israel that we anticipate receiving could adversely affect our plans and prospects. Pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, the Israeli government has granted “Approved Enterprise” status to our existing capital investment programs under the Alternative Benefits Program. Consequently, we are eligible for certain tax benefits for the first several years in which we generate taxable income. However, we have not yet begun to generate taxable income for purposes of this law. Once we begin to generate taxable income, our financial results could suffer if our tax benefits are significantly reduced. In order to receive tax benefits, we must comply with a number of conditions and criteria. If we fail to comply in whole or in part with these conditions and criteria, we will not be entitled to the tax benefits. Although we believe that we have operated and will continue to operate in compliance with the required conditions, we cannot assure you that this will continue. We cannot assure you that these tax benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of tax benefits (assuming that we generate taxable income that would enable us to utilize those benefits) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An amendment to the tax law, effective as of January 1, 2011 modifies the benefit tracks. See “Item 9E: Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959” for a description of such amendment. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive tax benefits under this law. In addition, in the event that we increase our activities outside of the State of Israel, these activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Accordingly, if we are found ineligible for these anticipated tax benefits, our future expected corporate taxes payable could increase significantly. 14 Certain provisions of our articles of association and of Israeli law could delay, hinder or prevent a change in our control. Our articles of association contain provisions which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our articles of association provide that our board of directors is divided into four classes, three of which serve three-year terms. In addition, certain provisions of the Israeli Companies Law, which we refer to as the Companies Law, could also delay or otherwise make more difficult a change in control. The provisions of the Companies Law relating to mergers and acquisitions are discussed in greater detail in “Item 10.B: Memorandum and Articles of Association.” As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to less stringent reporting requirements than domestic filers, which may negatively impact the volume of our shares traded and the volatility of our stock price. As a foreign private issuer, we are required to report our financial results annually and are not required to report quarterly financial results as required of domestic filers. As a result, limited interim financial information may depress the volume of our shares traded, increasing the volatility of our stock price. We may fail to continue to qualify as a foreign private issuer, making us subject to more stringent reporting requirements, which may cause us to incur additional expenses and negatively impact our results of operations. We currently meet the qualifications as a foreign private issuer. A foreign private issuer is a corporation incorporated under the laws of a foreign country except for a corporation meeting the following conditions as of the last business day of its second fiscal quarter: (1) more than fifty percent (50%) of the corporation’s voting securities are held by record, directly or indirectly, by residents of the United States and (2) any of the following conditions: (i) the majority of its executive officers or directors are United States citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50% of its assets are located in the United States and (iii) the business of the issuer is administered primarily in the United States. Because the shareholders of record may constantly change, or because we may be required, for sound business reasons, to shift our executive officers, assets or administration to the United States, we could fail to meet the qualifications as a foreign private issuer as of the end of our second fiscal quarter. Should we fail to meet the qualifications as a foreign private issuer, we will no longer be eligible to use the Securities and Exchange Commission reporting forms and rules designated for foreign private issuers, beginning with the first day of the fiscal year following the determination date. This would make us subject to substantially more reporting and general and administrative expenses, thus negatively impacting our financial results. 