Risk Factors” under the captions “Termination or expiration of one or more of our agreements with our clients could cause us a material loss of subscribers, revenue and profit.” We may lose access to new subscribers and revenue if our agreements with our clients terminate or expire, or our clients reduce or cease marketing of our products and services. Under most of our client agreements, our clients may reduce or cease marketing of our products and services in their discretion. Further, marketing of our products and services through our clients typically ceases upon the expiration or termination of the applicable agreements. If one or more of our clients reduces or ceases 14 Table of Contents marketing of our products and services, or one or more of our client agreements expires or terminates, we may lose access to new subscribers and revenue. For example, Bank of America has ceased new marketing of certain third party services, including our identity theft protection services, and provided notice of non-renewal of the provisions of our agreement under which it most recently was marketing our services to prospective subscribers. As a result, we do not expect to obtain a material number of new subscribers or new subscriber revenue through Bank of America. Termination or expiration of one or more of our agreements with our clients could cause us a material loss of subscribers, revenue and profit. Our typical contracts for direct marketing arrangements, and some indirect and shared marketing arrangements, provide that after termination of the contract we may continue to provide our services to existing subscribers, for periods ranging from two years to indefinite, substantially under the applicable terms in effect at the time of termination. In some cases our ability to continue our services and receive the related revenue may depend upon ongoing cooperation by our clients, including the use of certain billing systems or processes. Our clients or others could take certain actions or make changes after the termination or expiration of our agreements which could materially interfere with or limit our ability to continue to provide our services to those subscribers or receive the related revenue. For example, Bank of America provided notice of non-renewal as of December 31, 2011, of the provisions of our agreement under which it most recently was marketing our services to prospective subscribers. We expect to continue to provide our services to the subscribers we acquired through Bank of America before December 31, 2011 under the financial and other applicable terms and conditions that are currently in effect. We are engaged in discussions with Bank of America about certain terms and conditions of our current agreement or a future agreement governing continued servicing of those subscribers, and those discussions may result in modification of those terms and conditions. A material change to those terms and conditions or failure to reach agreement with Bank of America could have a material adverse effect on our continued servicing of the current subscribers and receipt of the related revenue. There can be no assurance that Bank of America will agree with our interpretation of our contractual rights or will not take actions that interfere with or limit our ability to provide our services to the existing subscribers or receive the related revenue, which could negatively impact us. Under certain of our agreements, including most indirect marketing arrangements and some shared marketing arrangements, the clients may require us to cease providing services under existing subscriptions after time periods ranging from immediately after termination of the contract to three years after termination. For example, this occurred when Discover terminated its indirect agreement with us effective September 1, 2008, which resulted in our ceasing to provide services to the existing subscribers and receive the related revenue. Clients under most contracts, whether direct, shared or indirect, also may require us to cease providing services to their customers under existing subscriptions if the contract is terminated for material breach by us or based on various events such as certain legal or regulatory changes, a party’s bankruptcy or insolvency, or other events. Further, upon termination or expiration of a client contract, we may enter into a transition agreement or other agreement with the client that modifies the original terms of the agreement. We are dependent upon our consumer products and services for substantially all of our revenue, and market demand for these services could decrease. Approximately 99% of our revenue is derived from our consumer products and services. We expect to remain dependent on revenue from our consumer products and services for the foreseeable future. Any significant downturn in the demand for these services would materially decrease our revenue. 15 Table of Contents If we lose our ability to purchase data from any of the three major credit reporting agencies, each of which is a competitor of ours, demand for our services could decrease. We rely on the three major credit reporting agencies, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, to provide us with essential data for our consumer identity theft protection and credit management services under short-term agreements. Each of the three major credit reporting agencies is a competitor of ours in providing credit information directly to consumers, and may decide to stop supplying data to us. Any interruption, deterioration or termination of our relationship with one or more of the three credit reporting agencies would be disruptive to our business and could cause us to lose subscribers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. We may not be able to develop and maintain relationships with third party suppliers and service providers, and failures by those third parties could harm our business and prospects. Our consumer products and services are substantially dependent on third party suppliers, including providers of credit and other data, analytics, and software and other technology. Our failure to develop and maintain these third party relationships could harm our ability to provide our products and services. We also rely on various third party service providers, including outsourced telemarketing vendors, customer service providers, network and systems hosts and other providers. In some arrangements we rely on our clients or their service providers to perform services. Failure of any of our third party suppliers or service providers, or our clients or their service providers, to satisfy our contracts or requirements, or comply with applicable laws and regulations, could cause us to lose customers or clients, expose us to private lawsuits or governmental investigations or proceedings, or harm our reputation. Any such event could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial results. A failure of any of the insurance companies that underwrite the insurance products or related benefits provided as part of our consumer products and services, or refusal by those insurance companies to provide the expected insurance, could harm our business. Certain of our consumer products and services include or depend on insurance products, or are dependent on group insurance policies under which the customers for our products and services are the insureds. The current and expected economic climate may cause financial instability among one or more of those insurance companies. Any failure of any of those insurance companies, or refusal by them to provide the expected insurance, could require us to remove the affected insurance from our products and services, cause us to lose customers or clients, or expose us to liability claims by our customers or clients. If we experience system failures or interruptions in our telecommunications or information technology infrastructure, our revenue could decrease and our reputation could be harmed. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our telecommunications and information technology systems against damage or system interruptions from natural disasters, technical failures and other events beyond our control. We receive credit and other data electronically, and this delivery method is susceptible to damage, delay or inaccuracy. A significant portion of our business involves telephonic customer service as well as mailings, both of which depend upon the data generated from our computer systems. Unanticipated problems with our telecommunications and information technology systems may result in a significant system outage or data loss, which could interrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, including the loss of revenue, clients or customers or exposure to liability claims. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to protect private data could cause us to expend capital and resources to protect against future security breaches or other unauthorized access, result in litigation costs, liability and damage to our reputation and business. We collect, distribute and protect nonpublic and sensitive private data in delivering our services. We are subject to the risk that unauthorized users might access that data or human error might cause the wrongful dissemination of that data. If we experience a security breach or other unauthorized access to information, the integrity of our services may be affected. We continue to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or other mishaps and to minimize problems if a data breach were to occur. Moreover, any public perception that we mishandle private information could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients and subscribers, or maintain key supplier relationships, and could subject us to legal claims and liability and damage to our reputation. In addition, unauthorized third parties might alter information in our databases, which would adversely affect both our ability to market our services and the credibility of our information. Our business is dependent on the secure operation of our website and systems as well as the operation of the Internet generally. Our business involves the storage and transmission of users’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. A number of large Internet companies have disclosed security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our financial institution and other clients, or both. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, client, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose clients, customers and/or suppliers. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. A person who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our subscribers’ proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors and clients, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including “denial-of-service” type attacks. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. 17 Table of Contents We may incur substantial marketing expenses as we enter new businesses, develop new products or increase our direct marketing arrangements, which could cause our operating income to decline on a quarterly basis. We are committing significant resources to our strategic effort to market our services to the broader direct-to-consumer marketplace. In addition, we bear most of the new subscriber marketing costs and pay our client a commission for revenue derived from subscribers. This generally results in higher marketing costs and negative cash flow over the first several months after a program is launched which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that our investment in the direct-to-consumer business or other new businesses or products, or any increase in direct marketing arrangements, will be successful in increasing our subscribers or generating future revenue or profits on our projected timeframes or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may lose subscribers and customers and significant revenue if our existing products and services become obsolete, or if we fail to introduce new products and services with broad appeal or fail to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our growth depends upon developing and successfully introducing new products and services that generate client and consumer interest, including new data sources, advanced tools and analytical capabilities, more timely notification of activities and more useable content. We have made or may make significant investments in these new products and services, including development costs and prepayment of royalties and fees to third party providers. Although we have a limited history of developing and introducing products and services outside the areas of identity theft protection and consumer credit management, we are currently developing or introducing new products and services in other areas. Our failure to develop, introduce or expand successfully our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We may lose subscribers and significant revenue if our subscribers cease to maintain the accounts through which they are billed for our products and services, or our clients change their billing or credit practices or policies, including access to certain billing systems and processes. Most of our subscribers are billed for our products and services through accounts with our clients, such as credit card, demand deposit and mortgage accounts. Market factors such as a high degree of mortgage refinancing or account cancellation could cause a loss of subscribers. Client decisions, such as changes in their credit card billing practices or policies, may result in our inability to bill for our products and services, which also may result in a loss of subscribers. These subscriber losses may have a material adverse impact on our revenue. In addition, for subscribers acquired through several of our clients, including Bank of America and certain of our other largest clients, we use certain billing systems and processes managed or supported by our clients. Changes by our clients to those billing systems or processes may result in our inability to bill for our products and services, which may cause us a material loss of revenue and subscribers. Our senior secured credit agreement provides our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions, and it could therefore limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. We may fail to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement as a result of, among other things, changes in our results of operations or general economic changes. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that would otherwise be in our best interests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under our credit agreement could result in a default under the facility, which could cause the lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise their lien on substantially all of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our credit 18 Table of Contents agreement bears interest at variable interest rates, increases in interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, resulting in a decline in our net income and cash flow, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may be unable to meet our future capital requirements to grow our business, which could adversely impact our financial condition and growth strategy. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to operate and expand our business. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We depend on key members of our management and other key personnel. We depend on key members of our management. We do not maintain key person life insurance on our senior management. Loss of one or more of these key individuals, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer or other executive officers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled managerial, marketing and other personnel, and a failure to attract and retain those personnel may have a material adverse impact on our business. Reserves we establish or charges we incur for private or governmental legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We periodically analyze currently available information about current legal proceedings and make a determination of the probability of loss and provide a range of possible loss when we believe that sufficient and appropriate information is available. We accrue a liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a loss is probable and a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated but no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount in the range, then the minimum of the range is accrued. We do not accrue a liability when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is believed to be probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the likelihood that a liability has been incurred is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and the impact could potentially be material, we disclose the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss. We may determine in the future that we must establish a reserve or incur a charge for all or a portion of our legal proceedings for which we did not previously establish a reserve or take a charge. We also may determine that we are required to increase a reserve if we determine that the reserve we previously established was inadequate, or record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. Such charges or reserves could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions or investments that are accretive or which improve our financial condition. A component of our strategy going forward includes selectively acquiring assets or businesses or making strategic investments in order to increase cash flow and earnings or diversify or expand our product offerings. This depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition or investment candidates, consummate transactions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to support our growth and expansion, and many other factors beyond our control. We may encounter delays or other problems or incur substantial expenses in connection with seeking acquisitions that could negatively impact our operating results. In connection with any acquisitions or investments, we could issue stock that would dilute our stockholders, incur substantial debt, assume known, contingent and unknown 19 Table of Contents liabilities and/or reduce our cash reserves. Acquisitions may also require material infrequent charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, impairment of goodwill, substantial depreciation and amortization, increased interest expense, deferred compensation charges, and the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations in one or more future periods. We may not realize planned benefits of our acquisitions or investments. In connection with our acquisitions, we may experience unforeseen operating difficulties as we integrate the acquired assets and businesses into our existing operations. These difficulties may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Any acquisition or investments by us involves risks, including: • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired operations; • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses with those of our existing operations; • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • establishing the internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • mitigating contingent or assumed liabilities or unexpected costs. We may not realize planned benefits of our membership agreement or other customer portfolio acquisitions, or be able to complete such acquisitions. We may acquire membership agreements or other customer portfolios from our clients or others. Although we receive certain representations, warranties and covenants from the seller, we have no guarantee that attrition of customers will not exceed expected levels for reasons that do not require the seller to indemnify us. If attrition exceeds our expectations, the revenue expected from these portfolios or membership agreements otherwise is less than we expected, or our costs of servicing these customers are higher than we expected, we may lose some or all of our investment. For example, in 2009, we accelerated the amortization of an acquired customer portfolio asset based on the unexpected increase in the rate of attrition of the subscriber base. In addition, legal or regulatory requirements, availability of financing or other factors may prevent us from consummating acquisitions of membership agreements or customer portfolios offered by our clients, which may have an adverse impact on our relationships with those clients or our continued receipt of revenue from those portfolios or agreements. Fluctuations of foreign currency values may adversely affect our reported revenue, results of operations and financial condition We provide our consumer products and services to consumers in Canada. The fluctuations of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may adversely affect our reported revenue, results of operations and financial condition, and there can be no guarantee that our strategies to reduce these risks will be successful. Our stock price fluctuates and may continue to fluctuate significantly over a short period of time. In the past, our stock price has declined in response to period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue, expenses and operating results. In certain periods where our historical operating results have been below the expectations of analysts and investors, the price of our common stock has decreased significantly following earnings announcements. In addition, our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the timing and rate of subscription cancellations and additions; 20 Table of Contents • the loss of a key client or a change by a key client in the marketing of our products and services; • our ability to introduce new and improve existing products and services on a timely basis; • the introduction of competing products and services by our competitors; • the demand for consumer subscription services generally; • amount and frequency of future dividend payments and share repurchases, if any; • the ability of third parties to market and support our services; and • general economic conditions. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, which may harm the market price of our common stock. Loeb Holding Corp., which is controlled by one of our directors, owns approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our executive officers and other directors own shares of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with the other public stockholders. If these stockholders act together, they could have the ability to significantly influence or control the management and affairs of our company and potentially determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any sale of the company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control transaction. Risks Related to our Industry Our consumer products and services business is subject to changing laws and regulations, and increasing government oversight, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business in the United States is subject to a wide variety of federal and state laws and regulations, including among others laws governing credit information, consumer privacy and marketing and servicing of consumer products and services. Our business in Canada is subject to similar laws. Many of these laws in the United States and Canada are the subject of revision and addition, the issuance of rules and regulations by government agencies and interpretations by courts. We incur significant costs to operate our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, and to make changes to our business as needed to comply with legal and regulatory changes. Any changes to the existing applicable laws, regulations or rules, or any determination that other laws, regulations or rules are applicable to us, could increase our costs or impede our ability to provide our products and services. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, various governmental agencies have the authority to commence investigations and enforcement actions under these laws and regulations, and private citizens also may bring actions, including class actions, under some of these laws and regulations. Responding to such investigations and actions may cause us to incur material costs. Any determination that we have violated any of these laws, regulations or rules may result in liability for fines, damages, or other penalties, require us to make changes to our products, services and business practices, and cause us to lose clients and subscribers, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A new federal agency may take actions that have a material adverse effect on our business. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may exercise authority with respect to our products and services, or the marketing and servicing of those products and services, by overseeing our financial institution clients or our credit reporting agency suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory or 21 Table of Contents enforcement authority over financial products. It is not certain whether the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has, or will seek to exercise, supervisory or other authority directly over us or our products or services. Supervision and regulation of us or our clients or suppliers by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, including the costs to make changes that may be required of us, our clients or our suppliers, and the costs of responding to examinations. We believe that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has commenced review of our financial institution clients, including their offering of some or all fee-based products. These reviews, or other actions by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could cause our clients to limit or change their business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the costs of defending against any enforcement action that may be brought by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and any liability that we may incur, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial institution clients are subject to increasing government regulation, class action and other litigation and public scrutiny, which could impede our ability to market and provide our services and have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our financial institution clients are and will continue to be the subject of increasing scrutiny by governmental authorities, private plaintiffs and the public. We believe that our client’s banking regulators and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau are reviewing our clients’ account policies and practices, practices with respect to fee-based products and services, and management of third party suppliers. In addition, some of our current and past financial institution clients are the subject of government enforcement proceedings concerning their offering of payment protection and other fee-based products, although we do not believe our products are the focus of these proceedings. These reviews, actions or proceedings could cause our clients to limit or change their offering or servicing of our products and services or take remedial actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our Online Brand Protection and Bail Bonds Industry Solutions segments are subject to various laws and regulations that may have an adverse effect on our business. Our Online Brand Protection and Bail Bonds Industry Solutions augments subject to a wide variety of federal and state laws and regulations. These laws are subject to change and addition, and various governmental authorities in the United States and Canada have the authority to make and change regulations and rules under these laws. We incur significant costs to operate our business and monitor our compliance with these laws, regulations and rules, and these costs may be material. Any changes to the existing applicable laws, regulations or rules, or any determination that other laws, regulations or rules are applicable to us, could increase our costs or impede our ability to provide our products and services. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur material costs in responding to government investigations or proceedings, or private actions, and if we are found to have violated any of these laws or regulations we could incur liability and lose customers, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to legal claims, including consumer class action litigation and government agency enforcement that could require us to pay damages or change our business practices. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry and must comply with various foreign, federal, state and local laws, we may be subject to claims and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. These legal actions may include class action lawsuits and actions and proceedings by governmental and regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the outcome of any actions or proceedings, and the cost of defending against these claims might be material. If we are found liable in any actions or proceedings, or are required to indemnify our clients or others for their liability, we may have to pay substantial damages, including expenses, and change the way we conduct our business, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Companies in the Internet, technology, data management and other industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. The technologies we own or license from others may not be able to withstand challenge by the owners of any third-party claims or rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products and services to others and may require that we procure substitute products or services for these customers and clients and could require us to pay damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Competition could reduce our market share or decrease our revenue. We operate in highly competitive businesses. Our competitors may provide products and services comparable or superior to those provided by us, or at lower prices, adapt more quickly to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements, increase their emphasis on products and services similar to ours, enter the markets in which we operate or introduce competing products and services. Any of these factors could reduce our market share or decrease our revenue. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Several of our competitors offer products and services that are similar to, or that directly compete with, our products and services. Competition for new subscribers for our consumer products and services is also intense. Even after developing a client relationship, we compete within the client organization with other consumer products and services for appropriately targeted customers because client organizations typically have only limited capacity to market third-party products and services like ours. We also compete directly with the credit reporting agencies that control the credit file data that we use to provide our services. One or more of these credit reporting agencies may not make available to us or our customers the same features that they may offer in direct competition with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 