ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties we do not presently know or anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a small number of key customers for a large portion of our revenues. If we lose any of our key customers or a key customer significantly reduces its business with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have depended on a relatively small number of key customers, such as ExxonMobil and Dow, for a large portion of our revenues, and expect ExxonMobil, Dow and a select list of other companies will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Given this customer concentration, the loss of any of our key customers or a material reduction in business from one or more of these customers would materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In particular, our revenue from ExxonMobil declined from $51.3 million in fiscal 2006 to $36.5 million in fiscal 2007, and is expected to be approximately $25 to $27 million in fiscal 2008 and approximately $16 to $19 million in fiscal 2009. Our revenue from Dow increased from $29.3 million in fiscal 2006 to $35.3 million in fiscal 2007, but is expected to decline to approximately $25 to $27 million in fiscal 2008 and approximately $21 to $25 million in fiscal 2009. The combined decrease in fiscal 2007 materially and adversely affected our operating results. Further, if we are not able to replace the anticipated decreases in fiscal 2008-2009 with new revenue from ExxonMobil, Dow or other customers, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Business activities such as the development of a new line of business or the acquisition of a company or technology could disrupt our business, affect our operating results and distract our management team. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, in the last four years, IntelliChem, Inc., Synthematix, Inc., Autodose SA, and MDL. In the future, we may engage in additional acquisitions and expand our business focus in order to exploit technology or market opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions or business expansions, we may issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership, pay cash, incur debts or assume liabilities. Our success depends upon our ability to successfully integrate the products, people, and systems we acquired in these transactions. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired businesses into our existing business in a timely and non-disruptive manner or at all. In addition, acquisitions could result in, among other things, large one-time charges associated with acquired in-process research and development, future write-offs of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets that are deemed to be impaired, restructuring charges related to consolidation of operations, charges associated with unknown or unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, increased general and administrative expenses, and the loss of key employees. Specifically in 2007 we completed the acquisition of MDL Group Companies which increased the goodwill balance by $95 million and combined with the recent decrease in our market capitalization may result in future impairments of our goodwill. If we develop a new line of business, our management’s attention may be diverted from normal daily operations of the business. Furthermore, an acquisition or business expansion may not produce the revenue, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate. The time, capital management and other resources spent on an acquisition or business expansion that fails to meet our expectations could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. Further, if we do not successfully execute on our integration and operational initiatives, or if our integrated product lines do not achieve substantial market acceptance with our existing and new customers, our operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents The length of our sales cycle for Symyx Tools and our Symyx Software products requires us to invest substantial resources in a potential sale before we know whether the sale will occur. There is no guarantee that the sale will ever occur and if we are unsuccessful in our marketing and sales efforts, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have a limited number of contracts for our Symyx Tools and pre-MDL Symyx Software product offerings. Our sales efforts require us to educate our potential customers about the full benefits of our solutions, which often requires significant time and expense. Our sales cycle is typically from 6 to 18 months, and we incur significant expenses, and in many cases begin to build customer-specific Tools prior to obtaining contractual commitments, as part of this process without any assurance of resulting revenues. Factors impacting sales and the length of our sales cycle include, but are not limited to, the following: • complexity and cost of our systems and difficulties we may encounter in meeting individual customer specifications and commitments; • our ability to build new systems and design software and workflows to meet our customers’ demands; • customers’ willingness to renew annual right to use software licenses or maintenance and support agreements; • limited number of customers that are willing to purchase our larger systems or enter into licensing agreements with us; • customers' budgetary constraints and internal acceptance review procedures; • customers' willingness to acknowledge the validity of our patent portfolio and their need to obtain a license to our intellectual property in order to undertake research using high-throughput combinatorial chemistry methods • increased competition; and • potential general or industry-specific downturns. If we are unable to continue to build the infrastructure to support our sales, or if the sales or build cycles for our products and services lengthen, or if we begin customer-specific Tools development but do not ultimately obtain the customer commitments, our revenue may not grow as anticipated, and could decline, and our results from operations may be harmed. We recently launched new service offerings in our Symyx Research business. We can provide no assurances these new offerings will be successful. In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we established a range of new service offerings for our Symyx Research business. These services are intended to leverage the expertise and experience of our technical staff and provide new revenue opportunities to replace the expected decline in research-related revenues from ExxonMobil in 2008. We have not yet proven the marketability or commercial viability of these service offerings. If we are unable to achieve significant sales from these new offerings, our revenue will be lower than what we anticipate and we may need to incur restructuring and personnel termination charges, as a result of which our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Failure to successfully commercialize our discoveries, either independently or in collaboration with our customers and licensees, would reduce our long-term revenue and profitability. In order for us to commercialize development candidates ourselves, we need to develop, or obtain through outsourcing arrangements, the capability to manufacture, market and sell products. Currently, we do not have these capabilities and we may not be able to develop or otherwise obtain them. Most of our commercialization efforts are currently being done through collaborations with our customers and licensees. We typically receive royalties on sales of products by our partners only if their products containing materials developed by us or if the products are produced using our methods. Commercialization of discovered materials is a long, uncertain and expensive process and we cannot control our partners’ activities in this regard. The failure of our partners to commercialize development candidates resulting from our research efforts could reduce our future revenue and would harm our business and operating results. In addition, our partners may delay or cancel commercialization of development candidates which may harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to successfully commercialize products resulting from our proprietary research efforts, our future revenue and operating results would decline. Strategic investment projects such as royalty-bearing programs, spin-offs and joint ventures may affect our operating results and financial condition and distract our management team. We are constantly assessing strategic investment projects with potential to deliver significant value creation opportunity for our shareholders. These projects include, but are not limited to, royalty-bearing programs, spin-offs and joint ventures. The process of investigating and implementing these projects is risky and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. For example, these projects may involve significant additional operating expenses or investments, and may distract our management team. Failure of any such investment project, if pursued, would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We expect our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. The fourth quarter historically has been our strongest quarter as our customers expend their remaining capital budgets for the year. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Revenue in future fiscal periods may be greater or less than revenue in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • expiration of or reduction in revenue derived from research contracts with major collaborative partners, which may not be renewed or replaced with contracts with other companies; • the size and timing of customer orders for shipments of, and payments related to, Symyx Tools; • the sale of integrated workflows including software and tools that may cause our tools revenue to be recognized ratably over future periods under our revenue recognition policy; • the technical risks associated with the delivery of Symyx Tools and the timing of customer acceptance of Symyx Tools; • the size and timing of both software and intellectual property licensing agreements we may enter into; • the timing and willingness of partners to commercialize our discoveries that would result in royalties; • the size and timing of royalties we receive from third parties, including those who license Symyx Tools and Symyx Software for resale; • the success rate of our discovery efforts associated with milestones and royalties; 14 Table of Contents • special charges related to completed or potential acquisitions; • the size and timing of internal research and development programs we undertake on an un-funded basis; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • the structure, timing and integration of acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and related disruption of our current business; • fluctuations in the market values of our cash equivalents and short and long-term investments and in interest rates, including any gains or losses arising on the sale of these investments; • changes in accounting rules and regulations, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and accounting for uncertainty in income taxes; and • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect our customers' capital investment levels and research and development investment decisions. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed in nature. Accordingly, if our revenue declines or does not grow as anticipated due to the expiration of research contracts, failure to obtain new contracts or other factors, we may not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue would significantly harm our operating results. We may revise the guidance we give to our stockholders regarding our anticipated financial results. If the revised guidance is not well received by our stockholders, market analysts or investors, our stock price may be adversely affected. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, it is difficult for our management to predict or estimate our quarterly or annual operating results and to give accurate guidance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In addition, as in the case of the revised guidance for the balance of fiscal 2007 communicated in April 2007, we may update the financial guidance we communicate to our stockholders from time to time to address recent developments, though we undertake no obligation to do so. In these cases, our stock price will likely decline, and investors will experience a decrease in the value of their investment. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since our initial public offering. For example, in 2007, the lowest bid price for our common stock was $6.90 and the highest bid price for our common stock was $21.87. Volatility in the market price for our common stock can be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • failure to achieve operating results within the guidance our senior management provides, or downward revisions in guidance relative to previous forecasts; • changes in our growth rates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; 15 Table of Contents • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in investors’ beliefs as to the appropriate valuation ratios for us and our competitors; • changes in investors’ acceptable levels of risk; • decisions by significant stockholders to acquire or divest their stock holdings, given the relatively low average daily trading volumes we have historically experienced; • changes in management; • the announcement of new products or services by us or our competitors; • speculation in the press or analyst community; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions, political influences, and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors and fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, most of whom have been granted stock options or restricted stock units. We may not be able to maintain and grow a profitable business. Our ability to maintain or increase our rate of profitability and grow our business is dependent on our ability to: • extend current research and development relationships and add new ones; • secure new Symyx Tools customers; • add additional licensees of our software, discovered materials, and intellectual property; and • make discoveries that our customers choose to commercialize that generate a substantial stream of royalties and other revenue. Our ability to achieve our objectives and maintain or increase the profitability of our business will depend, in large part, on potential customers accepting our high-throughput screening technologies and methodologies as effective tools in the discovery of new materials. Historically, life science and chemical companies have conducted materials research and discovery activities internally using traditional manual discovery methods. In order for us to achieve our business objectives, we must convince these companies that our technology and capabilities justify outsourcing part of their basic research and discovery programs. We cannot assure you we will achieve the levels of customer acceptance necessary for us to maintain and grow a profitable business. Failure to achieve the necessary customer acceptance, extend current research relationships and add new ones, secure new Symyx Tools customers, and add additional licensees of our software, discovered materials, and intellectual property would adversely affect our revenue and profitability and may cause our stock price to decrease. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to raise capital when needed, or on terms favorable to us, to satisfy cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, investment requirements and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations, will harm our business and operating results. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, our bank credit facility, and the cash flows generated by operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, investment requirements and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations for at least the next twelve months. Nonetheless, we may be required to raise additional funds through a public or private financing, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. We cannot provide assurance that additional funding, if sought, will be available or be on terms favorable to us. Further, any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may contain restrictive covenants which can restrict our business. Collaborative arrangements and licensing may require us to relinquish our rights to some of our technologies or products. Our failure to raise capital when needed, or on terms favorable to us, will harm our business and operating results. Any inability of ours to keep pace with technological advances and evolving industry standards would harm our business. The market for our products is characterized by continuing technological development, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. Due to increasing competition in our field, it is likely that the pace of innovation and technological change will increase. Our success depends upon our ability to enhance existing products and services and to respond to changing customer requirements. Failure to develop and introduce new products and services, or enhancements to existing products, in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions, industry standards or other customer requirements would harm our future revenue and our business and operating results. We depend upon the research and development activities of companies in the chemical, energy, life science and consumer product industries, among others, and declines or reductions in the research and development activities of these industries could harm our business. The market for our research services, Symyx Tools, and Symyx Software within the chemical, energy, electronics, life science and consumer product industries depends on our customers' ability and willingness to invest in research and development. If we cannot renew existing contracts or enter into new arrangements at the pace we expect, our business and operating results will be harmed. In particular, many companies in the chemical and life science industries have, in the past several years, experienced declining profitability, and in many cases, losses. There also has been considerable consolidation and restructuring among many companies in the life sciences industry. As a result, some chemical and life science companies have reduced their research and development activities and/or delayed investments in new technologies. In addition, many chemical products have become commodity products that compete primarily on the basis of price. If commoditization of chemical products and other pressures affecting the industry, including governmental regulations and governmental spending, continue in the future, more companies could adopt strategies that involve significant reductions in their research and development programs. Although we believe that our technologies can help chemical, energy, life science, consumer product, and other companies increase the efficiency of their research and development activities, our efforts to convince them of this value may be unsuccessful. To the extent these companies reduce their research and development activities or external investments; they will be less likely to do business with us. As a result of current industry consolidation, a number of our pharmaceutical companies have recently reduced or postponed decisions relative to research and development spending. Decisions by these companies to reduce or postpone their research and development activities could result in fewer or smaller scale collaborations with us, fewer or smaller scale intellectual property and software licenses, fewer sales of our Symyx Tools, or choosing not to work with Symyx, any of which could reduce our revenue and harm our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Difficulties we may encounter managing our growth may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have experienced substantial growth since our inception. We have grown from 170 employees at the end of 1999 to approximately 600 employees as of December 31, 2007, and expanded our offices from one country in 1999 to 7 countries in 2007. Growth places strain on our research, administrative and operational infrastructure. As our operations expand domestically and internationally, and as we continue to acquire new businesses, we will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations and further growth effectively requires us to continue improving our reporting systems and procedures and our operational, financial and management controls. In addition, recent SEC rules and regulations have increased the internal control and regulatory requirements under which we operate. We may not be able to successfully improve our management information and control systems to a level necessary to manage our growth and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls that we may not be able to remediate in an efficient or timely manner. We conduct research programs for our own account and for a number of collaborative partners, and any conflicts between these programs would harm our business. Our strategy includes conducting research programs for our own account as well as for collaborative partners. We believe our collaborative agreements are structured in a manner to enable us to minimize conflicts with our collaborators relating to rights to potentially overlapping leads developed through programs for our own account and through programs funded by a collaborator, or through programs funded by different collaborators. However, conflicts between a collaborator and us, or between or among collaborators, could potentially arise. In this event, we may become involved in a dispute with our collaborators regarding the material. Disputes of this nature could harm the relationship between us and our collaborators, and concerns regarding our proprietary research programs could also affect our ability to enter into new collaborative relationships and cause our revenue and operating results to decline. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and operating performance. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key scientific and highly skilled personnel. As we seek to expand our operations, the hiring of qualified scientific and technical personnel will be difficult, as the number of people with experience in high-throughput materials science is limited and we may face competition for qualified professionals, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we are headquartered. Further, as we form new alliances with other collaborative partners or expand on our Symyx Software, Symyx Tools and Symyx Research relationships, we may need personnel with specific skill sets that may be difficult to locate or attract. Although we have entered into employment contracts with most of our senior management, any of them may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as key scientific and other highly skilled personnel, is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of members of our senior management, as well as key scientific and other highly skilled personnel, could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives. Upon joining or promotion, new senior personnel must spend a significant amount of time learning our business model and management systems or their new roles, in addition to performing their regular duties. Accordingly, until new senior personnel become familiar with our business model and systems or with their new roles, we may experience some disruption to our ongoing operations. Moreover, the loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. We will face particularly significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees, as well as independent distributors, most of who are geographically dispersed and must be trained in the use and benefits of our products. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly scientific and technical personnel, would impair our ability to grow our business. 18 Table of Contents Competition could increase, and competitive developments could render our technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, which would reduce our revenue and harm our business. The field of high-throughput materials science is increasingly competitive. We are aware of companies that may apply their expertise in high-throughput chemistry to their internal materials research and development programs. In addition, there are companies focusing on aspects of high-throughput chemistry for the discovery of materials. In addition, academic and research institutions may seek to develop technologies that would be competitive with our technologies for materials discovery. Because high-throughput materials science is an emerging field, competition from additional entrants may increase. Our Symyx Tools and Symyx Software business groups are facing increasing competition from a number of instrument manufacturing and software companies. To the extent these companies develop competing technologies, our own technologies, methodologies, systems and workflows, and software could be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive. We would then experience a decline in our revenue and operating results. Our inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused by, for example, a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningfully defending intellectual property rights. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies and erode our competitive advantage, and our business and operating results could be harmed. The patent positions of technology companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. In that case, our revenue and operating results would decline. We rely upon trade secret protection for certain of our confidential information. We have taken measures to protect our confidential information. These measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. For example, we seek to protect our confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Disclosure or misuse of our confidential information would harm our competitive position and could cause our revenue and operating results to decline. Failure to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights through either litigation or licensing. To be successful in enforcing our intellectual property through litigation or licensing there are several aspects to consider, including maintaining the validity of our intellectual property, proving that others are infringing, and obtaining a commercially significant outcome as a result of such infringement. Intellectual property litigation can succeed if our intellectual property withstands close scrutiny. If it does not withstand this scrutiny, we can lose part or all of our intellectual property position. In addition, we are involved in several administrative proceedings, such as opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, that challenge the validity of the patents we have obtained there. If we lose part or all of our intellectual property position, whether through litigation or opposition proceedings, our business and operating results may be harmed. 19 Table of Contents With regard to proving infringement of our intellectual property, our success depends in part on obtaining useable knowledge of what technologies others are practicing. If others do not publish or disclose the technologies that they are using, our ability to discover infringing uses and enforce our intellectual property rights will diminish. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if the ability to enforce such rights diminishes, our revenue from intellectual property licensing and our operating results may decline. Our intellectual property must protect our overall business structure by allowing us to obtain commercially significant results from litigation, including compensation and/or relevant injunctions, without resulting in undue cost and expense. Enforcement of our intellectual property through litigation can result in significant expenses, distractions, and risks that might cause us to lose focus or may otherwise harm our profitability and weaken our intellectual property position. Enforcement proceedings can adversely affect our intellectual property while causing us to spend resources on the enforcement proceedings. As our licensing activities have matured, we have become involved in arbitration and litigation to assert and defend our intellectual property. These matters may become material and more such matters may arise. Successful conclusion of these matters will assist our business, while unsuccessful conclusion of these matters will cost us time and money and possibly loss of rights. Our ability to manage the costs of these proceedings to obtain a successful result cannot be predicted. Our business may be harmed if we are found to infringe proprietary rights of others. Our commercial success also depends in part on ensuring we do not infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering technologies that we may wish to utilize with our proprietary technologies, or products that are similar to products developed with the use of our technologies. If these patent applications result in issued patents and we wish to use the claimed technology, we would need to obtain a license from the third party and this would increase our costs of operations and harm our operating results. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, or be required to cease commercializing affected products, which would harm our operating results. We have engaged in business relationships with early stage companies whose ability to perform all their obligations is less certain than our traditional large chemical, energy, life science, and consumer product customers. We have entered into collaborative, development and licensing relationships in certain areas with early stage companies. These companies may lack established businesses and there is no assurance that these companies will succeed. The inability of these companies to perform all their financial and operational contractual obligations to us in a timely manner could adversely affect our results. 20 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of suppliers and will be delayed in our manufacture or unable to manufacture Symyx Tools if shipments from these suppliers are delayed or interrupted. Key parts of our Symyx Tools are currently available only from a single source or a limited number of sources. In addition, components of our capital equipment are available from one or only a few suppliers. If supplies from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, we may not be able to get equipment or components for Symyx Tools or our own research efforts in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities or under acceptable terms. Even if alternative sources of supply are available, it could be time-consuming and expensive for us to qualify new vendors and integrate their components into our tools. In addition, we depend upon our vendors to provide components of appropriate quality and reliability. Consequently, if supplies from these vendors were delayed or interrupted for any reason, we could be delayed in our ability to develop and deliver products; these delays would materially and adversely affect our business. Our investments could lose market value and consequently harm our ability to fund continuing operations. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we may maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities, including government and corporate obligations and money market funds. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of estimated tax. The market values of these investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Fluctuations in the market price and valuations of these securities may require us to record losses due to impairment in the value of the securities underlying our investment. This could result in future charges on our earnings. All securities are held in United States currency. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest rate risk than those with shorter maturities. Although floating rate securities generally are subject to less interest rate risk than fixed rate securities, floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Each year we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm addressing these assessments and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we are required to remediate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Furthermore, there are certain areas of accounting such as income tax that involve extremely complex rules that vary by country, where an inadvertent error, not misconduct, could be deemed a material weakness in our internal controls. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 21 Table of Contents If our products contain defects, it could expose us to litigation and harm our revenue. The products we offer are complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects, especially when we first introduce them. We may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects or errors, and to perform warranty repairs for Symyx Tools. Any defects or errors could also cause injury to personnel and/or damage to our reputation and result in increased costs, loss of revenue, product returns or order cancellations, or lack of market acceptance of our products. Accordingly, any defects or errors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future federal, state, or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, sale and support of our products entails the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of our customers’ use of such products in mission-critical applications. If a claimant brings a product liability claim against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our products interoperate with many parts of complicated computer systems, such as mainframes, servers, personal computers, application software, databases, operating systems, and data transformation software. Failure of any one of these parts could cause all or large parts of computer systems to fail. In such circumstances, it may be difficult to determine which part failed, and it is likely that customers will bring a lawsuit against several suppliers. Even if our software is not at fault, we could suffer material expense and material diversion of management time in defending any such lawsuits. We are exposed to general global economic and market conditions. Our business is subject to the effects of general economic conditions in the United States, Europe, Asia, and globally, and, in particular, market conditions in the life science and chemical industries. A global economic slowdown, or a particular slowdown in the life science and/or chemical industries, may materially adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to risks associated with export sales and international operations that may limit our ability to generate revenue from our products and intellectual property. We have established operations in certain parts of Europe and Asia and intend to continue to expand our international presence in order to increase our export sales. Export sales to international customers and maintaining operations in foreign countries entail a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights under a variety of foreign laws; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, and tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers and restrictions; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potentially adverse taxes; • currency exchange fluctuations; • greater difficulties in maintaining and enforcing United States accounting and public reporting standards; 22 Table of Contents • greater difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks in connection with international operations, such as political, social and economic instability, terrorism, potential hostilities, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and disease outbreaks. Although to date we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operations as a result of such regulatory, geopolitical, and other factors, we cannot assure investors that such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results or require us to modify our current business practices. We use hazardous materials in our business, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage, or disposal of these materials could subject us to significant liabilities. Our business involves the use of a broad range of hazardous chemicals and materials. Environmental laws impose stringent civil and criminal penalties for improper handling, disposal and storage of these materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the handling, disposal or storage of these materials. In the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials, we could be subject to civil damages due to personal injury or property damage caused by the release or exposure and the resulting liability could exceed our resources. A failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us from conducting our business. Accordingly, any violation of environmental laws or failure to properly handle, store, or dispose of hazardous materials could result in restrictions on our ability to operate our business and could require us to incur potentially significant costs for personal injuries, property damage and environmental cleanup and remediation. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly, which could impact our future earnings. We are subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (EU RoHS)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE Legislation. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer certain of our existing policies and procedures to comply with environmental regulations. Our primary facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, could cause us to cease or curtail our operations. Our main U.S. facilities are located in the Silicon Valley near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake struck this area, causing significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power outages or losses, communications failures, and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. We do not carry earthquake insurance on the property that we own and the insurance we do maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our business and operating results. 23 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in our control, even if this would be beneficial to stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors, in which our board is divided into three classes with three-year terms with only one class elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, which means that a holder of a majority of our common stock will need two annual meetings of stockholders to gain control of the Board; • a provision that prohibits our stockholders from acting by written consent without a meeting; • a provision authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • a provision that permits only the Board of Directors, the President or the Chairman to call special meetings of stockholders; and • a provision that requires advance notice of items of business to be brought before stockholders meetings. These provisions can be amended only with the vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding capital stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 