D. Risk Factors Readers are cautioned that an investment in Jacada is subject to a number of risks. Readers should consider carefully all information set forth herein and in particular the following risks in connection with an investment in Jacada: Risks Related to Our Business Our introduction of Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace represents an attempt to enter a new market in which we have limited experience and failure to successfully penetrate this market would harm our results of operations. In the second quarter of 2004, we introduced Jacada Fusion, our solution that is designed to integrate different applications residing on host, Windows and Web-based platforms, and allow non-invasive access to those applications through a single user interface. In the third quarter of 2005, we introduced Jacada WorkSpace, a solution designed to be a single agent console that unifies customer interaction tools with a single access point to all the mission-critical applications required by the customer service representative to effectively complete a customer interaction. We have elected to target corporate customer call centers, which we refer to as contact centers, for sales of these products as we believe there is a need for these products in this market. However, we have limited experience in this market. Our limited experience and knowledge regarding the contact center market may impede our ability to sell Jacada Fusion and Jacada Workspace products and result in decreased revenues and increased losses. We must continue our significant investment in our sales and marketing efforts, including our indirect distribution channels, in order to increase market awareness of our products and to generate increased revenues. We believe that our future success is dependent upon the expansion of our indirect distribution channels, consisting of our relationships with partners, resellers, distributors, system integrators and independent software vendors. Significant continued investment in indirect distribution channels and in our direct sales and marketing efforts is essential to increase market awareness of our contact center market products and to generate increased revenues, in relation to such products. We currently have relationships with only a limited number of these parties. Our future growth will be limited if: o we fail to increase the number of indirect distribution partners with which we have relationships o we fail to work effectively with our indirect distribution partners;; or o there is a decrease in the willingness or ability of our indirect distribution partners to devote sufficient resources and efforts to marketing and supporting our products. If any of these circumstances occurs, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the sales, marketing, distribution, implementation, customization and support of our products than we otherwise would. However, our own efforts, limited resources and relative lack of contacts within this market in comparison with some of our potential indirect distribution channels, may not be as effective as those of our indirect distribution channels. 4 We do not have a proven business model for the contact center market; if our business model is inappropriate for this market and our estimations regarding the sales cycle for this market are incorrect, our efforts to successfully commercialize Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace may be harmed or we will experience a further delay in generating revenues from these products. Our business model for selling Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products is different than the business model we have used for our traditional products. To date we have had few deals in which we sold Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace and therefore we do not have enough experience to determine if our business model is correct and is appropriate for the generation either of new sales or follow-on sales. In the event that our chosen business model is inappropriate, we may need to modify our business model and adjust the manner in which we sell Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace in order to close subsequent transactions. If our business model is incorrect and must be adjusted, our revenues and expense levels may be adversely affected. Revenues from Jacada Fusion and Jacada Workspace, our contact center products, might be concentrated in a few large orders and a small number of customers, meaning that the loss of a significant customer or a failure to make even a small number of such sales could harm our results of operations. Historically, revenues from our traditional products were generated from a relatively large number of sales to a wide number of customers. During 2005 and 2006 revenues from the Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products derived from large orders from a small number of customers. To the extent that this trend continues, our revenues from Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products, which we anticipate will comprise a significant portion of our future revenues, will be dependent on a relatively small number of significant customers. In 2006 and 2005, a sale to one customer accounted for approximately 10% and 22% respectively of our total revenues. Currently we do not expect to make repeat sales to this customer. We also cannot assure you that new customers will purchase our products and services in the future. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or the occurrence of significant reductions in sales from a key customer would cause our revenues to significantly decrease and make it significantly more difficult for us to become profitable. Competition in the markets in which we operate is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our products may be reduced. The markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and subject to rapid changes. In our traditional business, we compete with companies that enable businesses to Web-enable, modernize and integrate their existing software applications to better serve the needs of their users, customers and partners. These companies include AttachmateWRQ Corporation, IBM, Seagull, TIBCO Software and webMethods. Our Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products compete with other contact center solutions offered by Microsoft, Corizon and Graham Technology. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. In addition, many companies choose to deploy their own information technology personnel or utilize system integrators to write new code or rewrite existing applications in an effort to develop their own application integration or contact center solutions. As a result, prospective clients may decide against purchasing and implementing externally-developed solutions such as ours. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger customer bases than we do. Our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to ours; adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends or customer requirements; or devote 5 greater resources than we do to the development, promotion and sale of products. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, competition may intensify and future competition may harm our business. We rely on our key personnel and key management members, whose knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be extremely difficult to replace. Our future success depends, to a certain degree, on the continued services of key management, as well as on our sales and technical personnel. The loss of services of any of our key management for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the markets in which we recruit. As a result, our ability to recruit and retain qualified candidates may be limited. In addition, our relatively flat revenues in 2006 in relation to 2005 may cause current employees to leave our company, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues could be adversely affected if we fail to recruit and retain consultants and other technical service personnel. Sales of our Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products require in some cases advance sales activity involving consultants and post-sale implementation and customization. We rely on our staff of professional consultants, other technical service personnel and subcontractors to implement our solutions after being purchased by our customers. Unless we are able to recruit and retain professional consultants, other technical service personnel and subcontractors or hire and train such personnel and subcontractors to replace those who leave us, it will be difficult for us to implement our solutions and obtain customer acceptance and to increase or possibly even maintain our present level of sales due to constraints on our capacity to implement sales. In addition, a growing number of our transactions require implementation of our solutions. In these transactions, the implementation and customization services performed by these personnel are especially important. If we are unable to hire and retain these personnel, it may adversely impact our ability to successfully close such transactions. The revenue associated with our traditional products has declined and we expect that it may continue to decline. Therefore, failure to generate increased revenue from our Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products will result in increased losses and a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues are derived from sales of our traditional products, Jacada Interface Server and Jacada HostFuse, and our new products, Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace, and related maintenance and professional services. The revenue associated with our traditional products has been declining over the past years due to increased competition in this market as well as our decreased sales efforts in this market. We believe that this trend will continue in future years. In addition, it has taken longer than we anticipated to generate increased sales of our contact center market products. To the extent that these trends continue, we will suffer increased losses. To the extent that these trends continue for a prolonged period, we may suffer a material adverse effect. Our future growth will be adversely affected and our future operating results may be adversely affected if we fail to develop and introduce new functionality for our contact center products and new products that address new markets or if our new products fail to achieve market acceptance. In order to achieve sales growth we will need to develop and introduce new functionality for our contact center products and new products for new markets. Our ability to develop and introduce new functionality for our contact center products and new products requires us to invest significant resources in research and development and in the sales and marketing of a new product. If we fail to develop and market new products in new markets successfully, we may not be able to recover 6 our research and development expenditures or our sales and marketing expenditures, which would adversely impact our operating results. Because our products are complex and generally involve significant capital expenditures by customers, we may invest significant time and expense in trying to make a sale to a potential customer that ultimately chooses not to purchase our products. Our sales typically involve significant capital investment decisions by prospective customers, and often require us to expend a significant amount of time to educate prospective customers as to the benefits of our products. As a result, before purchasing our products, companies spend a substantial amount of time performing internal reviews and obtaining approvals. Even if our products are effective, our target customers may not choose them for technical, cost, support or other reasons. In previous years, we experienced fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations, which resulted, and may continue to result, in volatility in our share price. In previous years we have experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, and we may likewise experience significant fluctuations in our annual results of operations. Factors which have contributed and may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations include: general economic conditions, the size and timing of orders, including order deferrals, and subsequent shipments, market awareness and acceptance of our products, the capital spending patterns of our customers, customer concentration and the timing of our product introductions or enhancements or that of our competitors or providers of complementary products. Because of these and other factors, our quarterly revenues may fluctuate materially. Therefore, the results of past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may again be below expectations of public market analysts or investors, which may cause our share price to decline. Fiscal year 2000 was our only profitable year, and we may not again achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception except for fiscal 2000. To achieve and maintain profitability, we will need to increase revenues and contain expenses. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability will be affected by the other risks and uncertainties described in this section and in the sections entitled "Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" and "Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." The market price of our shares is volatile and the volume of the daily trading of our shares is very low; therefore you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all. The risks described in this Item 3.D may adversely affect our share price. Our share price, like that of many technology companies, may be subject to volatility. If our share price decreases to below $1.00 per share and remains there for 30 consecutive trading days, Nasdaq could initiate procedures to de-list our shares from the Nasdaq National Market and onto either the Nasdaq Small Cap Market or the OTC Bulletin Board. Furthermore, because of the low volume of daily trading in our shares, you may be unable to sell your shares in the market due to low or no demand for such shares. We expect to be subject to increasing risks of international operations. Currently we market and sell our products and services primarily in North America and Europe, from which areas we received approximately 98% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. In 2006 we continued to expand our international operations in Europe. Managing these expanded operations requires significant management attention and financial resources. Further, we currently have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products in regions other than North America and Europe. Our inability to increase our worldwide operations successfully could adversely impact our 7 business. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations between the dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect us. Although we utilize currency exchange forward contracts to hedge the payments from our material Euro and Grate Britain Pound (GBP) - denominated transactions, some of our foreign currency-denominated revenues are still not hedged. Accordingly, we are still exposed to the risk that our revenues will decrease in the event that those foreign currencies strengthen against the dollar. See "-Exchange rate fluctuations between the dollar and the NIS may negatively affect our earnings" for a discussion of risks associated with fluctuations in the dollar-NIS exchange rate. Our products may contain unknown defects that could harm our reputation, result in product liability or decrease market acceptance of our products. Our products may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced any material software defects to date, defects could cause our customers to experience system failures. Our customers depend on our software for their critical systems and business functions. Any errors or defects could: o damage our reputation; o increase our product development costs; o divert our product development resources; o expose us to monetary damages; o cause us to lose future sales; or o delay or diminish market acceptance of our products. Although we conduct extensive testing, we may not discover software defects that affect our products or enhancements until after they are sold. Furthermore, we are unable to test our products in each of the applications in which they are designed to work. Certain of our products, contain technology that we acquired or licensed from third parties. Because we did not develop the technology ourselves, there may be errors in the technology of which we are not aware. In addition, our products are integrated with our customers' networks and software applications. The sale and support of our products may expose us to the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on damage to these networks or applications caused by the technology we developed or the technology developed by a third party and acquired by us. In addition, the failure of our products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to warranty or other claims. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation or divert management's attention and resources. We may not have sufficient funds or insurance coverage to satisfy any or all liability that may be imposed upon us with respect to these claims. Our technology may be subject to infringement claims or may be infringed upon. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our technology. Most of our intellectual property, other than our trademarks, consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, 8 policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Although we do not believe that our products infringe upon any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that one or more persons will not make a claim of infringement against us. Any claims, with or without merit, could: o be expensive and time-consuming to defend; o cause product shipment and installation delays; o divert management's attention and resources; or o require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or may not be available at all. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales. Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures but include the general public license. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products that are integrated with these technologies. For example, in the event we integrate into one of our products a technology covered under the general public license, we may be required to disclose our source code for the integrated product. Disclosing our source code could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage our products may have over theirs, and therefore materially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. A successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. In the Future we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 9 Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and we maintain significant operations in Israel. Certain of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you might not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of such persons. Additionally, you might not be able to bring civil actions under United States securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. We have been advised by our Israeli counsel that, subject to certain limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a final executory judgment of a United States court for liquidated amounts in civil matters after a hearing in Israel, provided that certain conditions are met. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Conditions in and around Israel could adversely affect our operations. Because our research and development facilities are located in Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially adversely affect our operations. Despite the negotiations towards peace between Israel and certain of its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain. From October 2000 until recently, there was a significant increase in violence primarily in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have ceased for periods of time. In January 2006, Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates in the Palestinian Parliament and the tension among the different Palestinian factions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Hamas does not recognize Israel's right to exist as a state and Israel considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the recent calm and renewal of negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives will endure. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. This conflict involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any renewed hostilities or other factors related to Israel could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business or adversely affect our share price. Generally, all non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 (or older, for citizens with certain occupations), including some of our officers, directors and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances.. The absence of these employees for significant periods may cause us to experience operating difficulties. Additionally, a number of countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel or Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. Exchange rate fluctuations between the dollar and the NIS may negatively affect our earnings. A substantial majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of the expenses associated with our Israeli operations, including personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). Consequently, inflation in Israel will have the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel, unless it is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS relative to the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of valuation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Although we hedge partially 10 against risks associated with fluctuations in the dollar-NIS exchange rate, if the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will still be adversely affected. Any failure to obtain the tax benefits from the State of Israel that we anticipate receiving could adversely affect our plans and prospects. Pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, the Israeli government has granted "Approved Enterprise" status to our existing capital investment programs under the Alternative Benefits Program. Consequently, we are eligible for certain tax benefits for the first several years in which we generate taxable income. However, we have not yet begun to generate taxable income for purposes of this law. Once we begin to generate taxable income, our financial results could suffer if our tax benefits are significantly reduced. In order to receive tax benefits, we must comply with a number of conditions and criteria. If we fail to comply in whole or in part with these conditions and criteria, the tax benefits that we receive could be partially or fully canceled and we could be forced to refund the amount of the benefits we received, adjusted for inflation and interest. Although we believe that we have operated and will continue to operate in compliance with the required conditions, we cannot assure you that this will continue. We cannot assure you that these tax benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of tax benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in March 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for investments that qualify for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. In addition, in the event that we increase our activities outside the State of Israel, these activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Accordingly, our effective corporate tax rate could increase significantly in the future. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. From time to time we have received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Government of Israel, or the OCS. The transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than ten percent of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable would be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. We cannot be certain that any approval of the OCS will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, in the event that we undertake a transaction involving the transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, the consideration available to our shareholders may be reduced by the amounts we are required to pay to the OCS. In 11 addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties. Certain provisions of our articles of association and of Israeli law could delay, hinder or prevent a change in our control. Our articles of association contain provisions which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our articles of association provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms. In addition, certain provisions of the Israeli Companies Law, which we refer to as the Companies Law, could also delay or otherwise make more difficult a change in control. The provisions of the Companies Law relating to mergers and acquisitions are discussed in greater detail in "Item 10.B: Memorandum and Articles of Association." Our stock is traded on more than one stock exchange and this may result in price variations. Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Our stock is traded on these markets in different currencies (US dollars on Nasdaq and New Israeli Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different opening times (notably, different time zones and public holidays; in addition, the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange is closed on Fridays and open on Sundays, while Nasdaq is open on Fridays and closed on Sundays). This means that our stock is often traded at a price differential on these two markets resulting, among other factors, from the different trading times and the differences in exchange rates. 