RISK FACTORS Many factors could have an effect on Celanese's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Celanese is subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal factors are described below. CELANESE IS AN INTERNATIONAL COMPANY AND IS EXPOSED TO GENERAL ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND REGULATORY CONDITIONS AND RISKS IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH IT HAS SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS. Celanese operates in the global market and has customers in many countries. Celanese has major facilities located in Europe and Asia, including facilities in Germany, China and Korea operated through ventures. Its principal customers are similarly global in scope, and the prices of its most significant products are typically world market prices. Consequently, Celanese's business and financial results are affected directly and indirectly by world economic, political and regulatory conditions. Conditions such as the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, or political instability in any of the countries in which Celanese operates could affect Celanese by causing delays or losses in the supply or delivery of raw materials and products as well as increased security costs, insurance premiums and other expenses. These conditions could also result in or lengthen economic recession in Europe, Asia, the Americas, or elsewhere. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting requirements of United States, German or European Union governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions may have an effect on Celanese's business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for CAG Shares. From time to time, certain of Celanese Corporation's foreign subsidiaries, including subsidiaries of the Company, have made sales of acetate, sweeteners and polymer products to customers in countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. These countries include Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, four countries currently identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states and other countries that previously have been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states, or countries to which sales have been regulated in connection with other foreign policy concerns. In September 2005, Celanese Corporation began an investigation of these transactions and initially identified approximately (euro)9 million of sales by Celanese Corporation's foreign subsidiaries that may be in violation of regulations of the United States Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, or the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security. Celanese Corporation now believes that approximately (euro)4 million of these sales may actually be in violation of U.S. laws or regulations. Approximately (euro)4 million of the sales initially identified and less than (euro)1 million of the sales that may actually be in violation were made by the Company or its subsidiaries. The potential violations uncovered by the investigation include approximately (euro)150,000 of sales of emulsions to Cuba. Sales to Cuba are violations of OFAC regulations. In addition, we have recently discovered that the Company's sales office in Turkey sold polymer products to companies in Iran and Syria, including indirectly selling product through other companies located in non-embargoed locations. These transactions may have involved an intentional violation of our policies and U.S. federal regulations by employees of the Company's office in Turkey. However, sales from our office in Turkey to all customers are approximately (euro) 10 million annually. The investigation of potentially prohibited sales is ongoing and we can not yet be certain of the number of these transactions, the sales amounts or the identity of every individual who may have been involved. Celanese Corporation has voluntarily disclosed these matters to the U.S. Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Commerce, and they are currently engaged in discussions with them. None of the aforementioned sales were in violation of German law. Celanese Corporation and the Company have also taken corrective actions, including directives to senior business leaders prohibiting such sales, as well as modifications to our accounting systems that are intended to prevent the initiation of sales to countries that are subject to the U.S. Treasury Department or the U.S. Department of Commerce restrictions. If violations of the U.S. export control laws are found Celanese Corporation and the Company could be subject to civil penalties of up to $50,000 per violation, and criminal penalties could range up to the greater of $1 million per violation, or five times the value of the goods sold. If such violations occurred, the U.S. Government could deny Celanese export privileges. The ultimate resolution of this matter is subject to completion of our investigation and a final ruling or settlement with the U.S. government. Accordingly, we cannot estimate the potential sanctions relating to this matter. There can be no assurance that any governmental investigation or our own investigation of these matters will not conclude that violations of applicable laws have occurred or that the results of these investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. CYCLICALITY IN THE INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS INDUSTRY HAS IN THE PAST AND MAY IN THE FUTURE RESULT IN REDUCED OPERATING MARGINS OR OPERATING LOSSES. Consumption of the basic chemicals that Celanese manufactures, in particular those in acetyl products, such as acetic acid and vinyl acetate monomer, has increased significantly over the past 30 years. Despite this growth in consumption, producers have experienced alternating periods of inadequate capacity and excess capacity for these products. Periods of inadequate capacity, including some due to raw material shortages, have usually resulted in increased selling prices and operating margins. This has often been followed by periods of capacity additions, which have resulted in declining capacity utilization rates, selling prices and operating margins. Celanese expects that these cyclical trends in selling prices and operating margins relating to capacity shortfalls and additions will likely persist in the future, principally due to the continuing combined impact of five factors: 4 o Significant capacity additions, whether through plant expansion or construction, can take two to three years to come on stream and are therefore necessarily based upon estimates of future demand. o When demand is rising, competition to build new capacity may be heightened because new capacity tends to be more profitable, with a lower marginal cost of production. This tends to amplify upswings in capacity. o When demand is falling, the high fixed cost structure of the capital-intensive chemicals industry leads producers to compete aggressively on price in order to maximize capacity utilization. o As competition in these products is focused on price, being a low-cost producer is critical to profitability. This favors the construction of larger plants, which maximize economies of scale, but which also lead to major increases in capacity that can outstrip current growth in demand. o Cyclical trends in general business and economic activity produce swings in demand for chemicals. Celanese believes that the basic chemicals industry, particularly in the commodity chemicals manufactured by Celanese's Chemical Products segment, is currently characterized by overcapacity, and that there may be further capacity additions in the next few years. THE LENGTH AND DEPTH OF PRODUCT AND INDUSTRY BUSINESS CYCLES OF CELANESE'S MARKETS, PARTICULARLY IN THE AUTOMOTIVE, ELECTRICAL, CONSTRUCTION AND TEXTILE INDUSTRIES, MAY RESULT IN REDUCED OPERATING MARGINS OR OPERATING LOSSES. Some of the markets in which Celanese's customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to Celanese which is beyond its control. These markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of Celanese's products. CELANESE IS SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE INCREASED VOLATILITY IN RAW MATERIALS PRICES AND THE AVAILABILITY OF KEY RAW MATERIALS. Celanese purchases significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene, methanol, and propylene from third parties for use in its production of basic chemicals in the Chemical Products segment, principally acetic acid and vinyl acetate monomer. Celanese uses a portion of its output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of further products in all its segments. Celanese also purchases significant amounts of natural gas, electricity and fuel oil to supply the energy required in its production processes. Celanese also leases supplies of various precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the production of these chemicals. With growing demand for these precious metals, most notably in the automotive industry, the cost to purchase or lease these precious metals has increased, caused by a shortage in supply. These circumstances are expected to continue into the second half of 2006. Prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbons have increased dramatically in 2005. To the extent this trend continues and Celanese is unable to pass through these price increases to its customers, Celanese's operating profit and results of operations may be less favorable than expected. Celanese is exposed to any volatility in the prices of its raw materials and energy. Although Celanese has agreements providing for the supply of natural gas, ethylene, propylene, electricity and fuel oil, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors which have caused volatility in Celanese's raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include: o Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses; o Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, strike action or involuntary shutdowns; o The general level of business and economic activity; and o The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation. 5 Celanese strives to improve profit margins of many of its products through price increases when warranted and accepted by the market; however, Celanese's operating margins may decrease if it cannot pass on increased raw material prices to customers. Even in periods during which raw material prices decline, Celanese may suffer decreasing operating profit margins if raw material price reductions occur at a slower rate than decreases in the selling prices of Celanese's products. A substantial portion of Celanese's products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply/demand fundamentals change. Celanese manages its exposure through the use of long-term supply agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements. Although Celanese seeks to offset increases in raw material prices with corresponding increases in the prices of its products, it may not be able to do so, and there may be periods when such product price increases lag behind raw material cost increases. Celanese has a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, some of Celanese's individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide and acetaldehyde. Celanese may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials as a result of unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if Celanese has multiple sources of supply for a raw material, these sources would not make up for the loss of a major supplier. Nor can there be any guarantee that profitability will not be affected should Celanese be required to qualify additional sources of supply in the event of the loss of a sole or a major supplier. FAILURE TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGIES OR TO IMPLEMENT PRODUCTIVITY AND COST REDUCTION INITIATIVES SUCCESSFULLY MAY HARM CELANESE'S COMPETITIVE POSITION. Celanese's operating results, especially in its Performance Products and Technical Polymers Ticona segments, depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as production technologies. If Celanese is unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, its competitive position and operating results will be negatively affected. Likewise, Celanese has undertaken and is continuing to undertake initiatives in all segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized. CELANESE'S FUTURE SUCCESS WILL DEPEND IN PART ON ITS ABILITY TO PROTECT ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND ITS INABILITY TO ENFORCE THESE RIGHTS COULD REDUCE ITS ABILITY TO MAINTAIN ITS MARKET POSITION AND ITS MARGINS. Celanese attaches great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to protect its investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Celanese's policy is to seek the widest possible protection for significant product and process developments in its major markets. Patents may cover products, processes, intermediate products and product uses. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the date of patent application filing and the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. Celanese's continued growth strategy may bring it to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. As patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed in those patents become generally available for use by the public. Celanese's European and U.S. primary production patents for making Sunett, an important product in Celanese's Performance Products segment, expired at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, reducing its ability to realize revenues from making Sunett due to increased competition and potential limitations and will result in Celanese's results of operations and cash flows relating to the product being less favorable than today. Celanese also seeks to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of its products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding patents have expired. If Celanese is not successful in protecting its trademark rights, its revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. 6 FRANKFURT AIRPORT EXPANSION COULD REQUIRE CELANESE TO REDUCE PRODUCTION CAPACITY OF, LIMIT EXPANSION POTENTIAL OF, OR INCUR RELOCATION COSTS FOR ITS KELSTERBACH PLANT, WHICH WOULD LEAD TO SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL COSTS. The Frankfurt airport's expansion plans include the construction of an additional runway (the northwest option), which would be located in close proximity to Celanese's Kelsterbach production plant. The construction of this particular runway could have a negative effect on the plant's current production capacity and future development. While the government of the state of Hesse and the owner of the Frankfurt airport promote the expansion of the northwest option, it is uncertain whether this option is in accordance with applicable laws. Although the government of the state of Hesse expects the plan approval for the airport expansion in 2007 and the start of operations in 2009-2010, neither the final outcome of this matter nor its timing can be predicted at this time. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS COULD SUBJECT CELANESE TO LIABILITY FOR FINES, CLEAN-UPS AND OTHER DAMAGES, REQUIRE IT TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO MODIFY ITS OPERATIONS AND INCREASE ITS MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERY COSTS. Costs related to Celanese's compliance with environmental laws concerning, and potential obligations with respect to, contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on its operating results. These include obligations related to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by Celanese, or where waste from its operations was disposed. Celanese also has obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese AG and Hoechst Aktiengesellschaft or Hoechst, also referred to as the demerger agreement, for environmental matters arising out of a number of divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. Celanese's accruals for environmental remediation obligations, (euro)6 million as of September 30, 2005, may be insufficient if the assumptions underlying those accruals prove incorrect or if Celanese is held responsible for currently undiscovered contamination. See "Celanese may be required to make payments to Hoechst" below, 