RISK FACTORS We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf and that such factors may adversely affect our business and financial status and therefore the value of your investment: If the markets for consumer electronics, computers, industrial or communications products do not grow substantially or even decrease, our net sales may be harmed. Our business focuses on designing, developing and marketing high performance integrated circuits for manufacturers of products for the consumer electronics, computer, industrial and communications markets. As many of the leading sellers of these products have an intermediary manufacture their products or those portions of their products containing our components, we currently derive substantially all of our product revenues from sales to these intermediaries or their suppliers. We also have targeted and are designing products for applications such as LCD monitors, LCD televisions, notebook computers, Internet security, mobile phones, GPS and portable media players, such as portable DVD players. We believe that the important factors driving growth in these markets have been the growing popularity of thinner displays, mobile computing and portable devices, and the emergence and continued development of the Internet and wireless communications networks. If demand for products using LCDs or other devices using our products declines, or does not grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may experience lower demand for their products that use our products, which may cause our net sales to suffer. We cannot be certain that the markets for these products will continue to grow as rapidly as they have in the past or that a significant slowdown in these markets will not occur. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to factors such as changes in the demand for electronic devices that utilize our products could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful indicators of our future results of operations, and they should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts, the trading price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future depending upon a number of factors described below and elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, including many factors that are beyond our control. These factors include changes in demand for devices that use our products; market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry and the economy as a whole; the timing and cancellation of customer orders; the level of orders received that can be shipped in a quarter; the availability of third party semiconductor foundry, assembly and test capacities; fluctuations in manufacturing yields; delays in the introduction of new products; changes in the mix of sales of higher margin products and lower margin products; seasonal changes in demand during the year-end holiday season for devices that use our products; and the amount of legal and other expenses incurred in a particular quarter. For example, the level of legal 5 expenses is not entirely within our control as we may need to respond to legal actions by opposing parties or scheduling decisions by the judges. It is difficult for us to forecast our legal expenses for any given quarter, which adversely affects our ability to forecast our expected results of operations in general. In addition, the trading price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs may be affected by factors such as: significant price and volume fluctuations in our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs and financial markets in the U.S. and other countries, as well as relatively thin trading volume of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs on Nasdaq and the SEHK, respectively. Further, the trading markets for our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs are affected by the research reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have control over such coverage. If one or more analysts were to downgrade our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs, the price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs may decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of our company or does not regularly publish reports on us, we may lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs or trading volume to decline. If orders for our products are cancelled or deferred, our net sales, operating margins and net income could be substantially reduced. Orders for our products can be cancelled or deferred with little notice from and without significant penalty to our customers. A significant portion of our net sales in any financial reporting period depends on orders booked and shipped in that period. If a large amount of orders placed is cancelled or deferred, our net sales in that period could be substantially reduced. Since we do not have significant non-cancellable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory expenses based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. In particular, in response to anticipated lengthy lead times, which in the past have been as much as ten weeks or more, to obtain inventory and materials from our suppliers, we place orders with these suppliers in advance of anticipated customer demand, which can result in excess inventory if the expected orders fail to materialize. We also expect to increase our expenses for personnel and new product development. It is difficult for us to reduce our production, inventory, personnel and new product development expenses quickly in response to any shortfalls in net sales resulting from cancelled or deferred orders. As a result, any cancellation or deferral of orders would not only harm our net sales, it would also likely have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating margins and net income. We depend on third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products and, if they are unable to do so, our ability to ship products and our business and results of operations will be harmed. We do not own or operate the integrated circuit fabrication facilities that manufacture the products we design. Four foundries, X-FAB, SinoMos, SMIC and CSMC, manufactured most of the integrated circuit products that we sold in 2007. These foundries manufacture integrated circuit products for us according to purchase orders. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity at any of these foundries, and any one or more could raise prices without notice. Although we provide the foundries with rolling forecasts of our production requirements, the ability of each foundry to provide wafers to us is limited by the foundry's available capacity. The term "wafers" refers to slices of silicon used to manufacture integrated circuits, and it is one of the principal raw materials in our products. These foundries could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, particularly larger customers, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice or increase the prices they charge us. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that these foundries will allocate sufficient capacity, if any, to satisfy our requirements particularly during any industry-wide capacity shortages. In addition, if any of these foundries were unable to continue manufacturing our products in the required volumes at acceptable quality, yields and costs or in a timely manner, our business and results of operations would be seriously harmed. There are other significant risks associated with our reliance on these foundries, including the disruption in our ability to ship products caused by the length of time, as much as 12-to-18 months, required for us to find alternative foundries for existing or new products; the reduction or elimination of deliveries to us by these outside foundries caused by a sudden increase in demand for semiconductor devices or a sudden reduction or elimination of manufacturing capacity by any existing manufacturers of semiconductor devices; the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies used by these foundries; and the susceptibility of our outside foundries to production interruptions resulting from natural disasters, such as the interruptions experienced in Taiwan in the past due to earthquake activity. Any of these events could cause these foundries to reduce or eliminate deliveries to us and cause disruption in our ability to ship products to our customers which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We also rely on independent subcontractors to assemble and test most of our integrated circuit products. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors but obtain services from them primarily on a purchase order basis. Our reliance on these subcontractors involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. These risks could result in product shortages or increase our costs of manufacturing, assembling or testing our products. If these subcontractors were unable or unwilling to continue to provide assembly and test services and deliver products at acceptable quality, yields and costs or in a timely manner, our business would be seriously harmed. We would also have to identify and qualify substitute subcontractors, which would be time consuming and costly and could result in unforeseen operational difficulties. 6 If we cannot compete effectively against new and existing competitors, our net sales and gross margins could be harmed. Our ability to compete successfully in the market for integrated circuit products depends on factors both within and outside our control, including: our success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies and satisfy our customers' needs; the performance of our products across a variety of parameters such as reliability and cost efficiency; the price of our products and those of our competitors; our ability to control production costs; and the features of our competitors' products. We believe our principal competitors include Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Microsemi Corporation, Monolithic Power Systems, Inc., Ricoh Company, Ltd., Rohm Co., Ltd and Texas Instruments Incorporated. There is also competition from the internal integrated circuit design and manufacturing capabilities of some of our existing and potential customers, such as Toshiba and Fujitsu. In addition to these competitors, other integrated circuit companies may decide to enter the market with mixed-signal integrated circuit products that compete with our products or incorporate functions similar to those provided by our products. Some of our competitors, such as Texas Instruments, have greater name recognition, their own manufacturing capabilities, significantly greater financial and technical resources, and the sales, marketing and distribution strengths that are normally associated with large multinational companies. These competitors may also have pre-existing relationships with our customers or potential customers. These competitors may be able to introduce new technologies more quickly, address customer requirements more rapidly and devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we do. Further, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products themselves or obtain third-party manufacturing capability when we are unable to do so. If we do not develop and introduce new products in a timely manner, our net sales and gross margins could be harmed. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and introduce new products selected for design into products for the consumer electronics, computer, industrial and communications markets. If we are unable to develop new products in a timely manner, our net sales will suffer. In addition, because our gross margins typically decline over the life cycle of our products as a result of competitive pressures and voluntary pricing arrangements, any failure to develop new products in a timely manner will likely cause our gross margins to decline. The development of our new products is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products of as much as eight-to-twelve weeks or more. Successful product development and introduction of new products depend on a number of factors, including accurate new product definition; timely completion of new product designs; achievement of manufacturing yields; timely and cost-effective production of new products; and timely delivery of new third-party supplied products used as key components in devices that incorporate our products. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that it will be selected for design into our customers' products. If we incur such expenditures but fail to be selected, our results of operations will be adversely affected and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Furthermore, even if our products were selected for design into our customers' products, we cannot be certain that these products will be commercially successful or that we will benefit from any associated sales. It is difficult to evaluate our future prospects, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur future losses. Our past results cannot be relied upon to predict our future performance. We incurred net losses in each year prior to the year ended December 31, 1999. We then experienced significant quarter-to-quarter sales growth in each of the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003. However, since the first quarter ended March 31, 2004, we have experienced fluctuations in net sales compared to the previous quarter. Our net sales are subject to fluctuation from quarter to quarter, our previous overall growth may not continue, and we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Our expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to develop our technology, protect our technology, expand our product offerings and expand our capabilities. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our net sales sufficiently to offset our increased expenses. If we fail to increase our net sales to keep pace with our increased expenses, we may again experience net losses in future periods, which could cause the trading price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs to decline. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology or trademarks, and this could weaken our competitive position, increase our costs, reduce our margins and reduce our net sales. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and prevent competitors from using our technology in their products. These laws and procedures provide only limited protection. Our patents may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringement. Our ability to sell our products and prevent competitors from misappropriating our proprietary technology and trade names is dependent upon protecting our intellectual property. Despite the precautions we take, unauthorized third parties may copy aspects of our current or future products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of software, circuit design or 7 semiconductor design is difficult and some countries' laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Hong Kong and other developed countries. We have in the past and currently have initiated litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could also result in a decision that our intellectual property is invalid or unenforceable and, could adversely affect our business, future results of operations and financial condition. See the section headed "Business Overview--Intellectual Property." We have substantial operations outside of the United States that expose us to risks specific to our international operations that could harm our net sales and net income. As of December 31, 2007, a substantial portion of our operations, most of our employees, and most of the third parties we use to manufacture, assemble and test our products were located in Japan, Korea, China, Singapore and Taiwan. In addition, sales outside the United States as a percentage of net sales accounted for almost all of our sales in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. We expect our non-U.S. operations to grow and non-U.S. sales to continue to account for a substantial percentage of our net sales. We are subject to risks specific to our international business operations, including: the risk of supply disruption, production disruption or other disruption arising from natural disasters such as the earthquake in China affecting our offices in Chengdu, the outbreak of any severe communicable disease or other widespread health problems; the risk of potential conflict and further instability in the relationship between Taiwan and China; risks related to international political instability and to the recent global economic turbulence and adverse economic circumstances in Asia, such as in Japan and Korea; unpredictable consequences on the economic conditions in the U.S. and the rest of the world arising from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S. and other military or security operations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or legal uncertainties regarding tax regimes, such as the change to the tax code of Taiwan in 2001 that resulted in a higher income tax rate on our retained earnings; tariffs and other trade barriers, including current and future import and export restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; adverse effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations; limited ability to enforce agreements and other rights in foreign countries; changes in labor conditions; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; expropriation of private enterprises; and reversal of the current policies (including favorable tax and lending policies) encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. In addition, the geographical distances between Asia, the U.S., the Cayman Islands and Europe also create a number of logistical and communication challenges. Although we have not experienced any serious harm in connection with our international operations, we cannot assure you that such problems will not arise in the future. In addition, our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. However, a significant portion of our operating expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the New Taiwan dollar and the Chinese Renminbi. As a result, appreciation or depreciation of other currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar could result in material transaction or translation gains or losses that could adversely affect, or cause fluctuations in, our results of operations. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities. If we cannot adapt our product offerings to respond to rapid technological changes, our net sales will be harmed. The markets for consumer electronics, computer, industrial and communications products, and the components used in these products, are characterized by rapidly changing technology and very frequent new product introductions by our direct customers and our competitors. For example, the microprocessor, display and battery technologies with which our products inter-operate change very rapidly. Although our products integrate analog and mixed-signal circuits and therefore may have substantially longer life-cycles than digital integrated circuits, we must still update our products or introduce new ones on a regular basis. If we do not respond in a timely manner to technological changes and new product introductions by our direct customers and competitors, we will be unable to maintain and grow our product sales. In addition, the emergence of significantly more efficient or cost-effective microprocessor, display and battery technologies could lessen the need for the power management functionality of our products, which would harm our net sales. We will need to recruit and retain qualified personnel to grow our business successfully. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, research and development, marketing, customer support and management personnel. If we do not attract and retain these personnel, our ability to grow our business, sell our products, enter new markets and increase our share of existing markets could be harmed. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring for these positions in the near future. Our sales strategy requires that we hire additional direct sales persons and independent sales representatives in our major markets. Moreover, our independent sales representatives and direct sales personnel must market our products effectively and be qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service. If they are unable to do so or if we are unable to expand these organizations, this could harm our ability to increase our net sales and limit our ability to sell our products or expand our market share. Competition for qualified personnel in digital, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit design is intense. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, especially technical and sales personnel. As we intend to expand the scope of our international operations, this will require us to attract experienced management, research and development, marketing, sales and 8 customer support personnel for our international offices. We expect competition for qualified personnel to remain intense, and we may not succeed in attracting or retaining such personnel. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training in our design methodology, design flow and technology, which in turn requires significant resources and management attention. There is a risk that, even if we invest significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not be successful in our efforts. In that event, our costs of doing business would increase without a corresponding increase in net sales. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers, including Sterling Du, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board, and other key employees, including key sales, consulting, technical, marketing and legal personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, our business and ability to implement our business objectives successfully could be harmed, particularly if one or more of our executives or key employees decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us. Defects in our products could result in significant costs and could impair our ability to sell our products. Detection of any significant defects in our products may result in, among other things, loss of or delay in market acceptance and sales of our products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and warranty costs. Because our products are complex, they may contain defects that can be detected at any point in a product's life cycle. These defects could harm our reputation, which could result in significant costs to us and could impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. While we continually test our products for defects and work with customers through our customer support services to identify and correct problems, defects in our products may be found in the future. Testing for defects is complicated in part because it is difficult to simulate the highly complex environments in which our customers may use our products. In the past, we have discovered defects in our products and have experienced delays in the shipment of our products. These delays have principally related to new product update releases. To date, none of these delays has materially affected our business. However, product defects or delays in the future could be material, and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our products. A substantial portion of our net sales is generated by a small number of customers. If any of these customers delays or reduces its orders, our net sales and earnings may be harmed. Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for a significant portion of our net sales in any particular period. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from any of our significant customers. We cannot be certain that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at the levels of previous periods or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. In addition, some of our customers, acting as intermediary manufacturers, supply products to end-market purchasers, and any of these end-market purchasers could choose to reduce or eliminate orders for our customers' products. This would in turn lower our customers' orders for our products. In 2007, one customer accounted for 11.1% of our net sales and no other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. In 2006 and 2005, no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales. The changes in sales to this customer as a percentage of our total net sales have been caused by a number of factors, some of which were outside our control. We anticipate that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers would have a disproportionately negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to manage growth will affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend in part on our ability to implement and expand operational, customer support and financial control systems and to train and manage our employees. We may not be able to augment or improve existing systems and controls or implement new systems and controls in response to future growth, if any. In addition, we will need to expand our facilities to accommodate the growth in our personnel. Any failure to manage growth could divert management attention from executing our business plan and adversely affect our ability to expand our business successfully. Our historical growth has placed, and any further growth is likely to continue to place, a significant strain on our resources. In order to grow successfully, we will need to maintain close coordination among our executive, engineering, accounting, finance, marketing, sales, operations and customer support organizations, particularly in light of the internationally dispersed nature of our operations. Third parties have asserted, and in the future could assert, that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our ability to sell our products and expose us to litigation. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time received communications from third parties asserting patents that cover certain of our technologies or products and alleging infringement of certain of their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar communications in the future. In the event any third party were to make a valid claim against us or our customers, we could be enjoined from selling selected products such as our inverter or power products or could be required to pay royalties to third parties. Third-party infringement claims, with or without merit, have been and could continue to be time consuming, result in substantial diversion of our resources and potentially significant litigation costs, including costs related to any fines and/or damages we may owe, cause product shipment delays, prevent us and/or our customers from selling 9 some or all of our products, cause our customers or end-users not to use our products or require us to enter into license agreements. Such license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Any such event could seriously harm our business and our results of operations. We expect that semiconductor companies will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the semiconductor industry grows. See the section headed "Business Overview--Intellectual Property." From time to time, in the normal course of business, we agree to indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties or other claims made against certain parties. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim. To date, we have not made any payments under these obligations. Until all outstanding litigation is resolved, we will continue to incur substantial legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in the legal proceedings. This level of activity is not entirely within our control as we may need to respond to legal actions. Consequently, we may find it difficult to predict the legal expenses for any given period, which will impair our ability to forecast our results of operations for that period. Given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, there cannot be any assurance that we will prevail in any particular litigation matter, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation. If any party were to prevail in its claims against us, our rights to certain patents and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In any litigation arising from claims that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, an adverse result could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, and a reduction or the elimination of the value of related inventories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. See the section headed "Business Overview--Intellectual Property." We may be subject to lawsuits from third parties, which could harm our earnings and expose us to additional uncertainties. We are a defendant or plaintiff in actions that arise in the normal course of business as well as actions that arose as counterclaims in response to our patent infringement actions, including actions for antitrust, unfair competition and interference. While we currently believe the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect our financial position, overall trends in results of operations, or liquidity, the ultimate outcome of any litigation or claim is uncertain, and the impact of an unfavorable outcome could be material to us. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. As a result, we may fail to meet our reporting obligations and current and potential holders of ADSs and/or ordinary shares could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect the trading price of our ADS and/or ordinary shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our results of operations could be misstated, our reputation may be harmed and the trading price of our ADSs and/or ordinary shares could be adversely affected. In connection with the restatement of our audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, in May 2005 our independent registered public accounting firm reported to our audit committee a matter that was a "reportable condition" in our internal controls as defined in standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants at that time. In general, reportable conditions are significant deficiencies in a company's internal controls that, in the auditor's judgment, could adversely affect the ability to record, process and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements. During 2005, we devoted significant resources to remediate deficiencies and improve our internal controls. We believe that these efforts have remediated the concerns that gave rise to the "reportable condition." However, we cannot be certain that our controls over our financial processes and reporting will continue to be adequate in the future. Any failure of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement in financial statements. In addition, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accountants must attest to and report on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During this process, if our management or our independent auditors identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. If we or our 10 independent auditors were unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent auditors were unable to attest that our management's report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs. We have incurred, and continue to incur, significant costs with respect to corporate governance and financial reporting compliance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and adopted by the Nasdaq in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and costs of our financial reporting, securities disclosure and corporate governance practices. These new or revised rules, regulations, and listing requirements are subject to varying interpretations in many cases and their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. As a result, we may incur further legal and financial compliance costs and be required to make unanticipated changes to our reporting, disclosure and governance practices. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that, among other things: our chief executive officer and chief financial officer personally certify our annual report on Form 20-F which is filed with the SEC each year, which certification includes statements as to the accuracy and fair presentation of the report's disclosure, the establishment and maintenance of controls and procedures related to our disclosure and issues regarding our internal accounting controls; we refrain from making most types of loans to our officers and directors after the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or from making any material modifications to loans that existed prior to the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; we furnish a report in certain SEC filings pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and our audit committee pre-approves all audit and non-audit services provided by our independent registered public accounting firm except for de minimis services; be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of our independent registered public accounting firm; establish procedures for the receipt and treatment of complaints received by us regarding accounting, controls or auditing matters and any confidential submissions by our employees regarding questionable accounting or auditing; comprise independent directors, as defined under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and applicable Nasdaq rules. If we fail to comply with new or revised rules, regulations, and listing requirements in a timely manner, we may be exposed to liability and public perception of our financial reporting, securities disclosure and corporate governance practices could be negatively affected. As a result, the price of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs could decline. Sales of our products could decline if our products fail to support evolving industry standards or environmental requirements. Our net sales are derived from sales of integrated circuit products that are components of electronic devices built to industry standards and widely accepted specifications. For example, the bus interconnect specifications of most notebook computers for attaching integrated peripherals are currently Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), Universal Serial Bus (USB) and Low Pin Count (LPC) and the software used to control the power management functions of many notebook computers conforms to the industry's Advanced Configuration Power Interface specification. Our products must be designed to conform to these standards and specifications in order to achieve market acceptance. Technology standards and specifications continually evolve, and we may not be able to successfully design and manufacture new products in a timely manner that conform to these new standards or specifications. Additionally, new products we develop to conform to new specifications may not be accepted in the market. In addition, a large percentage of our business is based on products that are used in systems that contain cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFL). CCFL tubes contain mercury, which is the subject of environmental concerns, particularly in Europe. Environmental issues may affect the use of our CCFL-based products and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Many customers are also requiring that we offer our products in lead-free packages. Governmental regulations in certain countries and customers' intention to produce products that are less harmful to the environment has resulted in a requirement from many of our customers to purchase integrated circuits that do not contain lead. The transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand depending on the packaging method used, which may result in excess inventory of products packaged using traditional methods. This may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the quality, cost and manufacturing yields of the lead-free products may be less favorable compared to products packaged using more traditional materials which may result in higher costs to us. Our transfer pricing procedures may be challenged, which may subject us to higher taxes and adversely affect our earnings. Transfer pricing refers to the prices that one member of a group of affiliated corporations charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of intellectual property. If two or more affiliated corporations are located in different countries, the laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those charged by unrelated corporations dealing with each other at arm's length. If one or more of the countries in which our affiliated corporations are located believe that transfer prices were manipulated by our affiliated corporations in a way that distorts the true taxable income of the corporations, the laws of such countries could require us to redetermine transfer prices and thereby reallocate the 11 income of our affiliate corporations in order to reflect such income clearly. Any reallocation of income from one of our corporations in a lower tax jurisdiction to an affiliated corporation in a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher overall tax liability to us. Moreover, if the country from which the income is being reallocated does not agree to the reallocation, the same income could be subject to taxation by both countries. We have adopted transfer pricing agreements with our subsidiaries located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Japan and Singapore to regulate inter-company transfers. A transfer pricing agreement is a contract for the transfer of goods, services or intellectual property from one corporation to a related corporation that sets forth the prices that the related parties believe are those charged by unrelated corporations dealing with each other at arm's length. We have entered into these types of agreements because a portion of our assets, such as intellectual property developed in our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries, is transferred among our affiliated corporations. In such agreements, we have determined transfer prices that we believe are the same as the prices that would be charged by unrelated parties dealing with each other at arm's length. In this regard, we are subject to risks not faced by other companies with international operations that do not create inter-company transfers. If the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction, including Taiwan and the United States, were to challenge these agreements successfully or require changes in our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with transfer pricing laws, or that such laws will not be modified, which, as a result, may require changes to our transfer pricing practices or operating procedures. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws could result in an income tax assessment of the portion of income deemed to be derived from the taxing jurisdiction that so reallocates the income or modifies its transfer pricing laws. Provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association may discourage potential acquisition bids for us and prevent changes in our management that our shareholders may favor. Provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction that our shareholders favor. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging others from making offers for our ordinary shares. As a result, these provisions may prevent the market price of our ordinary shares or ADSs from reflecting the effects of actual or rumored takeover attempts and may prevent shareholders from reselling their ordinary shares or ADSs at or above the price at which they purchased their ordinary shares or ADSs. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management that our shareholders may favor. Our Memorandum and Articles do not permit shareholders to act by written consent, do not permit shareholders to call a general meeting and provide for a classified board of directors, which means shareholders can only elect a limited number of our directors in any given year. Furthermore, our board has the authority to issue up to 250,000,000 preference shares in one or more series. Our board can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such preference shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders but subject to any direction that may be given by the shareholders in a general meeting. The issuance of preference shares may delay or prevent a change in control transaction without further action by our shareholders or make removal of management more difficult. As we are a Cayman Islands company, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process on and recover against us or our directors and officers and our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interest. We are a Cayman Islands company, and many of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our officers and directors, at any one time, are and may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Although we have irrevocably agreed that we may be served with process in Santa Clara, California with respect to actions arising out of or in connection with United States federal securities laws relating to offers and sales of our ordinary shares and/or our ADSs, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to recover against us or our directors and officers on judgments of the United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by our charter documents, consisting of our Memorandum and Articles of Association, and by the companies law and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are governed by Cayman Islands law, which are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in jurisdictions such as the United States. While there is some case law in the Cayman Islands on these matters, it is not as developed as, for example, in the United States. In addition, the laws of the Cayman Islands relating to the protection of the interests of minority shareholders differ in some respects from those established under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. Such differences may mean that our minority shareholders may have less protection than they would have under the laws of the United States. Due to the less protective nature of such laws in the Cayman Islands, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management or directors than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in some other jurisdictions. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under 12 U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a passive foreign investment company will be made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. tax purposes if, after the application of look-through rules, either (a) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (b) the average percentage of our assets (by value) in a taxable year that produce or are held for production of passive income is at least 50%. Our judgment is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. In the future, the valuation of our intangible assets will be based in part on the then market value of our ADSs and ordinary shares which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we will not be a passive foreign investment company for the current or any future taxable year. See "Taxation--United States Federal Income Taxation--Passive Foreign Investment Company." Holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. Holders of our ADSs may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for instructions. Otherwise, they will not be able to exercise their right to vote unless they withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs they hold. However, they may not know about the meeting sufficiently enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for instructions, the depositary will notify the holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to them. We cannot assure you that holders will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote, and there is no guarantee that the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs would be voted as requested. The depositary for our ADSs may give us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if holders of ADSs do not vote at shareholders' meetings which could adversely affect their interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying ADSs at shareholders' meetings if the holder of the ADSs did not vote, unless we notify the depositary that we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy, we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question, or we think the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that holders of ADSs cannot prevent the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs from being voted, absent the situation described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to a discretionary proxy. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares the ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that ADS holders may not receive the distributions we make on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of the ADSs. Holders of ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of ADSs. ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 