Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing our company, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Factors that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock, include those discussed below, as well as those discussed above in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. We are subject to the following significant risks, among others: We will need to raise more cash in the future We have always had negative cash flows from operations. Our regenerative cell business will continue to result in a substantial requirement for research and development expenses for several years, during which it could bring in no significant cash and /or revenues. Our spine and orthopedics products business has performed poorly and we are actively seeking to divest these assets. There can be no guarantee that adequate funds for our operations from any additional debt or equity financing, our operating revenues, arrangements with distribution partners or from other sources will be available when needed or on terms attractive to us. The inability to obtain sufficient funds would require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research or product development programs, manufacturing operations, clinical studies or regulatory activities or to license third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves, thus having a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. -12- Table of Contents We have never been profitable on an operational basis and we expect to have significant operating losses for the next few years We have incurred net operating losses in each year since we started doing business. These losses have resulted primarily from expenses associated with our research and development activities and general and administrative expenses. Losses related to our development of regenerative cell technology are expected to keep us in a loss position on a consolidated basis for several years. We anticipate that our recurring operating expenses will be at high levels for the next few years, due to the continued need to fund our clinical research program as well as additional pre-clinical research. Our business strategy is high-risk We are focusing our resources and efforts primarily on our regenerative cell technology and its cash needs for research and development activities. This is a high-risk strategy because there can be no assurance that our regenerative cell technology will ever be developed into commercially viable products (commercial risk), that we will be able to preclude other companies from depriving us of market share and profit margins by selling products based on our inventions and developments (legal risk), that we will be able to successfully manage a company in a different business than we have operated in the past (operational risk), that we will be able to deliver regenerative cells into the body to achieve the desired therapeutic results (scientific risk), or that our cash resources will be adequate to develop the regenerative cell technology until it becomes profitable, if ever (financial risk). We are using our cash in one of the riskiest industries in the economy (strategic risk). This may make our stock an unsuitable investment for some investors. The financial risk in this strategy is significant, particularly since our bioresorbable products are not currently independently cash-flow-positive. Although we eliminated the negative cash flow of the early commercialization stage of the (non-Japan) Thin Film business by selling that business to MAST in May 2004, even our core spine and orthopedics implants business fell back into a negative cash flow position in 2004 due to the sharp reduction in orders from and sales to Medtronic. This trend has continued throughout 2005 and 2006. We must keep our joint venture with Olympus operating smoothly Our regenerative cell business cannot succeed on the current timelines unless our joint venture collaboration with Olympus goes well. We have given Olympus-Cytori, Inc. an exclusive license to our regenerative cell therapeutic device technology for use in future generation devices. If Olympus-Cytori, Inc. does not successfully develop and manufacture future generation devices for sale to us, we may not be able to commercialize any device or any therapeutic products successfully into the market. In addition, any future disruption in or breakup of our relationship with Olympus would be extremely costly to our reputation, in addition to causing many serious practical problems. We and Olympus must overcome contractual and cultural barriers as we work together. Our relationship is formally measured by a set of complex contracts, which have not yet been tested in practice. In addition, many aspects of the relationship will be essentially non-contractual and must be worked out between the parties and the responsible individuals over time. The Joint Venture is intended to have a long life, and it is difficult to maintain cooperative relationships over a long period of time from a far distance in the face of various kinds of change. Cultural differences, including a language barrier to some degree, may affect the efficiency of the relationship as well. Olympus-Cytori, Inc. is 50% owned by us and 50% owned by Olympus. By contract, each side must consent before any of a wide variety of important business actions can occur. This situation possesses a risk of potential time-consuming and difficult negotiations which could at some point delay the Joint Venture from pursuing its business strategies. Olympus is entitled to designate the Joint Venture's chief executive officer and a majority of its board of directors, which means that day-to-day decisions which are not subject to a contractual veto will essentially be controlled by Olympus. In addition, Olympus-Cytori, Inc. will need more money than its initial capitalization in order to finalize development of and production of the future generation devices. If we are unable to help provide future financing for Olympus-Cytori, Inc., our relative equity interest in Olympus-Cytori, Inc. may decrease. Furthermore, under a License/Joint Development Agreement among Olympus-Cytori, Inc., Olympus, and us, Olympus will have a primary role in the development of Olympus-Cytori, Inc.'s future generation devices. Although Olympus has extensive experience in developing medical devices, this arrangement will result in a reduction of our control over the development and manufacturing of the future generation devices. -13- Table of Contents We rely on Medtronic to distribute a majority of our current biomaterials products, but Medtronic’s level of commitment to our products historically has been poor We have limited control over sales, marketing and distribution of our biomaterials products. Our strategy for sales and marketing of our bioresorbable products included entering into an agreement with Medtronic, a company with a large distribution network, to market many of our current and certain future products incorporating our technology. The sale of hard-tissue-fixation bioresorbable implant products to our distribution partner, Medtronic, has constituted the majority of our revenues. We remain significantly dependent on Medtronic to generate sales revenues for all of our spine and orthopedics bioresorbable products. The amount and timing of resources which may be devoted to the performance of Medtronic’s contractual responsibilities are not within our control. There can be no guarantee that Medtronic will perform its obligations as expected or pay us any additional option or license fees. There is also no guarantee that it will market any new products under the distribution agreements or that we will derive any significant revenue from such arrangements. Medtronic’s sale of our products to end customers in 2004, 2005 and 2006, and its rate of product orders placed with us in the same periods, disappointed our expectations. We remain significantly disappointed with the marketing efforts of Medtronic for our non-MYSTIQUE™ products at this time. We recorded an inventory provision for slow-moving non-MYSTIQUE™ inventory in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2005 as well as in the second and third quarters of 2006. We are also becoming concerned about Medtronic’s commitment to MYSTIQUE™. Our dependence upon Medtronic to market and sell our bioresorbable products places us in a position where we cannot accurately predict the extent to which our products will be actively and effectively marketed, depriving us of some of the reliable data we need to make optimal operational and strategic decisions. The results of this business line in each year from 2004 through 2006 have been below our internal expectations. The prices which Medtronic pays us are fixed (pending semiannual price reviews in January and July of each year), based on a percentage of Medtronic’s historic selling price to its customers. If our costs increase but our selling prices remain fixed, our profit margin will suffer. Medtronic owns 4.45% of our stock subsequent to the offering in February 2007, which may limit our ability to negotiate commercial arrangements optimally with Medtronic. Although Medtronic has exclusive distribution rights to our co-developed spinal implants, it also distributes other products that are competitive to ours. Medtronic might choose to develop and distribute existing or alternative technologies in preference to our technology in the spine, or preferentially market competitive products that can achieve higher profit margins. We suspect that this has in fact been happening. There can be no assurance that our interests will coincide with those of Medtronic or that disagreement over rights or technology or other proprietary interests will not occur. The loss of the marketing services provided by Medtronic (or the failure of Medtronic to satisfactorily perform these marketing services), or the loss of revenues generated by Medtronic, could have a substantial negative effect on our ability or willingness to continue our spine and orthopedics biomaterials business. Indeed, it seems the problems we have already experienced with Medtronic may be intractable. Accordingly, we are actively seeking divestiture or other strategic alternatives for the business. Senko has not yet begun to distribute our Thin Film products in Japan; but if and when they do, we cannot be assured that they will be successful. We have a limited operating history; our operating results can be volatile Our prospects must be evaluated in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by emerging companies and particularly by such companies in rapidly evolving and technologically advanced fields such as the biotechnology and medical device fields. Due to our limited operating history, and the development stage status of our regenerative cell business, comparisons of our year-to-year operating results are not necessarily meaningful and the results for any periods should not necessarily be relied upon as an indication for future performance. Since our limited operating history makes the prediction of future results difficult or impossible, our recent revenue results should not be taken as an indication of any future growth or of a sustainable level of revenue. Operating results will also be affected by our transition away from our revenue generating medical device business and the focus of the vast majority of our resources into the development of the regenerative cell business. -14- Table of Contents Moreover, our operating results can vary substantially from our previously published financial guidance (such as occurred in the second quarter of 2004), from analyst expectations and from previous periodic results for many reasons, including the timing of product introductions and distributor purchase orders. Also, the 2002 sale of our CMF bone fixation implant and accessory product line, which had represented a large portion of our revenues, plus the 2004 sale of our (non-Japan) Thin Film surgical implants for separation of soft tissues, have distorted quarterly and annual earning comparisons through 2004 and 2005. Earnings surprises can have a disproportionate effect on the stock prices of emerging companies such as ours. Also, our stock price is likely to be disproportionately affected by changes which generally affect the economy, the stock market or the medical device and biotechnology industries. From time to time, we have tried to influence our investors’ expectations as to our operating results by periodically announcing financial guidance. However, we have in the past been forced to revise or withdraw such guidance due to lack of visibility and predictability of product demand. This lack of visibility and predictability of product demand for our bioresorbable implant products is likely to occur in the future as well. We are vulnerable to competition and technological change, and also to physicians’ inertia We compete with many domestic and foreign companies in developing our technology and products, including biotechnical, medical device, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than we do. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing alternative technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than those which we have developed or are in the process of developing or that would render our technology and products obsolete and non-competitive in these fields. In general, we may not be able to preclude other companies from developing and marketing competitive regenerative cell therapies or bioresorbable products that are similar to ours or perform similar functions. These competitors may also have greater experience in developing therapeutic treatments, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, manufacturing and commercializing therapeutic or biomaterials products. It is possible that certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection, approval or clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration “FDA” or achieve commercialization earlier than we, any of which could have a substantial negative effect on our business. Finally, Olympus, Medtronic and our other partners might pursue parallel development of other technologies or products, which may result in a partner developing additional products that will compete with our products. We also compete with other types of regenerative cell therapies such as bone marrow derived cell therapies, and potentially embryonic derived therapies. Our biomaterials business competes with manufacturers of traditional non-bioresorbable implants, such as titanium implants. Doctors have historically been slow to adopt new technologies such as ours, whatever the merits, when older technologies continue to be supported by established providers. Overcoming such inertia often requires very significant marketing expenditures or definitive product superiority. We expect physicians’ inertia and skepticism to also be a significant barrier as we attempt to gain market penetration with our future regenerative cell products. We believe we will need to finance lengthy time-consuming clinical studies (so as to provide convincing evidence of the medical benefit) in order to overcome this inertia and skepticism. Our regenerative cell technology products are pre-commercialization, which subjects us to development and marketing risks We are in a relatively early stage of the path to commercialization with many of our products. We believe that our long-term viability and growth will depend in large part on our ability to develop commercial quality cell processing devices and to establish the safety and efficacy of our therapies through clinical trials and studies. We are presently pursuing regenerative cell opportunities in cardiovascular disease, aesthetic and reconstructive surgery, spine and orthopedic conditions, and gastrointestinal disorders that may require extensive additional capital investment, research, development, clinical testing and regulatory clearances or approvals prior to commercialization. There can be no assurance that our development programs will be successfully completed or that required regulatory clearances or approvals will be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. There is no proven path for commercializing our regenerative cell technology in a way to earn a durable profit commensurate with the medical benefit. Although we are working to develop proprietary therapeutic products which optimize or enhance the benefit of autologous stem and regenerative cells for a variety of particular indications, most of our cell-related products and/or services are at least two to five years away. Moreover, the successful development and market acceptance of our technologies and products are subject to inherent developmental risks, including failure of inventive imagination, ineffectiveness or lack of safety, unreliability, failure to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, high commercial cost and preclusion or obsolescence resulting from third parties’ proprietary rights or superior or equivalent products, as well as general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. There can be no assurance that we or our partners will be able to successfully develop and commercialize our technologies or products, or that our competitors will not develop competing technologies that are less expensive or otherwise superior to ours. The failure to successfully develop and market our new regenerative cell technologies would have a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. -15- Table of Contents We have limited manufacturing experience We have no experience in manufacturing the Celution™ System at a commercial level, and although Olympus is a highly capable and experienced manufacturer of medical devices, there can be no guarantee that the Olympus-Cytori joint venture will be able to successfully develop and manufacture the Celution™ System in a manner that is cost-effective or commercially viable, or that development and manufacturing capabilities might not take much longer than currently anticipated to be ready for the market. In the event that the Olympus-Cytori joint venture is not successful, Cytori may not have the resources or ability to self manufacture commercially viable devices, and in any event this failure may substantially extend the time it would take for us to bring a commercial device to market. This makes us significantly dependant on the continued dedication and skill of Olympus for the successful development of the Celution™ System. In addition, as a company we have limited experience in manufacturing the type of cell-related therapeutic products which we intend to introduce in 2008. In addition, the future of our biomaterials business success is significantly dependent on our ability to manufacture our bioresorbable implants in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and in a cost-effective manner. Production of some of our products in commercial-scale quantities may involve unforeseen technical challenges and may require significant scale-up expenses for additions to facilities and personnel. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to achieve large-scale manufacturing capabilities for some of our biomaterials products or that we will be able to manufacture these products in a cost-effective manner or in quantities necessary to allow us to achieve profitability. Our 2002 sale of CMF production assets to Medtronic and our 2004 sale of the (non-Japan) Thin Film product line deprived us of some economies of scale in manufacturing. Current demand for spine and orthopedics products from Medtronic is so low that economies of scale are lacking in regard to that product line as well. We have to maintain quality assurance certification and manufacturing approvals The manufacture of our bioresorbable products is, and the manufacture of the Celution™ System for regenerative cells will be, and the manufacture of any future cell-related therapeutic products would be, subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and distribution partners. The manufacture of devices and products for human use is subject to regulation and inspection from time to time by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation “QSR” requirements, as well as equivalent requirements and inspections by state and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. There can be no guarantee that the FDA or other authorities will not, during the course of an inspection of existing or new facilities, identify what they consider to be deficiencies in our compliance with QSRs or other requirements and request, or seek, remedial action. Failure to comply with such regulations or a potential delay in attaining compliance may adversely affect our manufacturing activities and could result in, among other things, injunctions, civil penalties, FDA refusal to grant pre-market approvals or clearances of future or pending product submissions, fines, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspensions of production and criminal prosecution. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional necessary regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals or clearances or the loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. We depend on a sole source supplier for our crucial raw material for our bioresorbable products We currently purchase the high molecular weight, medical grade, lactic acid copolymer used in manufacturing most of our bioresorbable products, from a single qualified source. Although we have a contract with B.I. Chemicals, Inc., which guarantees continuation of supply through August 15, 2008, we cannot guarantee that they will elect to continue the contract beyond that date, or that they will not elect to discontinue the manufacture of the material. They have agreed that if they discontinue manufacturing they will either find a replacement supplier, or provide us with the necessary technology to self-manufacture the material, either of which could mean a substantial increase in material costs. Also, despite this agreement they might fail to do these things for us. Under the terms of the contract, B.I. Chemicals, Inc. may choose to raise their prices upon six months’ prior notice which may also result in a substantially increased material cost. Although we believe that we would be able to obtain the material from at least one other source in the event of a failure of supply, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate increased commercial quantities of the necessary high quality within a reasonable period of time or at commercially reasonable rates. Lack of adequate commercial quantities or the inability to develop alternative sources meeting regulatory requirements at similar prices and terms within a reasonable time or any interruptions in supply in the future could have a significant negative effect on our ability to manufacture products, and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. -16- Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights Our success depends in part on whether we can obtain additional patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Our recently amended regenerative cell technology license agreement with the Regents of the University of California contains certain developmental milestones, which if not achieved could result in the loss of exclusivity or loss of the license rights. The loss of such rights could impact our ability to develop certain regenerative cell technology products. Also, our power as licensee to successfully use these rights to exclude competitors from the market is untested. In addition, further legal risk arises from a lawsuit, filed by the University of Pittsburgh naming all of the inventors who had not assigned their ownership interest in Patent 6,777,231 to the University of Pittsburgh, seeking a determination that its assignors, rather than the University of California’s assignors, are the true inventors of Patent 6,777,231. We are the exclusive, worldwide licensee of the University of California’s rights under this patent, which relates to adult stem cells isolated from adipose tissue that can differentiate into two or more of a variety of cell types. If the University of Pittsburgh wins the lawsuit, our license rights to this patent could be nullified or rendered non-exclusive with respect to any third party that might license rights from the University of Pittsburgh, and our regenerative cell strategy could be impacted. We have various U.S. patents for the design of our bioresorbable plates and high torque screws and devices and we have filed applications for numerous additional U.S. patents, as well as certain corresponding patent applications outside the United States, relating to our technology. However, we believe we cannot patent the use of our lactic acid copolymer for surgical implants, nor are many of our particular implants generally patentable. There can be no assurance that any of the pending patent applications will be approved or that we will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. There is also no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages, will not be challenged by any third parties or that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technology. Furthermore, there can be no guarantee that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around our patents. Our commercial success will also depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing on patents issued to others. If we were judicially determined to be infringing on any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. If we are required in the future to obtain any licenses from third parties for some of our products, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to do so on commercially favorable terms, if at all. U.S. patent applications are not immediately made public, so we might be surprised by the grant to someone else of a patent on a technology we are actively using. As noted above as to the University of Pittsburgh lawsuit, even patents issued to us or our licensors might be judicially determined to belong in full or in part to third parties. Litigation, which would result in substantial costs to us and diversion of effort on our part, may be necessary to enforce or confirm the ownership of any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and prepare and file patent applications in the United States, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs to and diversion of effort, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Any such litigation or interference proceeding, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. We have been incurring substantial legal costs as a result of the University of Pittsburgh lawsuit, and our president, Marc Hedrick, is a named individual defendant in that lawsuit because he is one of the inventors identified on the patent. As a named inventor on the patent, Marc Hedrick is entitled to receive from the Regents of the University of California up to 7% of royalty payments made by a licensee (us) to the Regents of the University of California. This agreement was in place prior to his employment with us. -17- Table of Contents In addition to patents, which alone may not be able to protect the fundamentals of our regenerative cell and bioresorbable businesses, we also rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise. We rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our partners, employees, advisors, vendors and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise. There can be no guarantee that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our unpatented trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Failure to obtain or maintain patent protection, or protect trade secrets, for any reason (or third party claims against our patents, trade secrets or proprietary rights, or our involvement in disputes over our patents, trade secrets or proprietary rights, including involvement in litigation), could have a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property in countries outside the United States Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revisions. The laws of some countries do not protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. We currently have pending patent applications in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada, China, Korea, and Singapore, among others. We are, and Olympus-Cytori, Inc. will be, subject to intensive FDA regulation As newly developed medical devices, our and Olympus-Cytori’s regenerative cell harvesting, isolation and delivery devices and our bioresorbable implants must receive regulatory clearances or approvals from the FDA and, in many instances, from non-U.S. and state governments, prior to their sale. Our and Olympus-Cytori’s current and future regenerative cell harvesting, isolation and delivery devices and bioresorbable implants are subject to stringent government regulation in the United States by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA regulates the design/development process, clinical testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, sale, distribution and promotion of medical devices and drugs. Included among these regulations are pre-market clearance and pre-market approval requirements, design control requirements, and the Quality System Regulations / Good Manufacturing Practices. Other statutory and regulatory requirements govern, among other things, establishment registration and inspection, medical device listing, prohibitions against misbranding and adulteration, labeling and post market reporting. The regulatory process can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Before any new medical device may be introduced to the United States market, the manufacturer generally must obtain FDA clearance or approval through either the 510(k) pre-market notification process or the lengthier pre-market approval application “PMA” process. It generally takes from three to 12 months from submission to obtain 510(k) pre-market clearance, although it may take longer. Approval of a PMA could take four or more years from the time the process is initiated. The 510(k) and PMA processes can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and there is no guarantee of ultimate clearance or approval. We expect that some of our future products under development as well as Olympus-Cytori’s will be subject to the lengthier PMA process. Securing FDA clearances and approvals may require the submission of extensive clinical data and supporting information to the FDA, and there can be no guarantee of ultimate clearance or approval. Failure to comply with applicable requirements can result in application integrity proceedings, fines, recalls or seizures of products, injunctions, civil penalties, total or partial suspensions of production, withdrawals of existing product approvals or clearances, refusals to approve or clear new applications or notifications and criminal prosecution. Medical devices are also subject to post-market reporting requirements for deaths or serious injuries when the device may have caused or contributed to the death or serious injury, and for certain device malfunctions that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. If safety or effectiveness problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may take steps to prevent or limit further marketing of the product. Additionally, the FDA actively enforces regulations prohibiting marketing and promotion of devices for indications or uses that have not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Our current medical implants are at different stages of FDA review. We currently have 510(k) clearances for a wide variety of bioresorbable surgical implant products and we are constantly engaged in the process of obtaining additional clearances for new and existing products. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the necessary 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals to market and manufacture our other products in the United States for their intended use on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. -18- Table of Contents To sell in international markets, we will be subject to intensive regulation in foreign countries In cooperation with our distribution partners, we intend to market our current and future products both domestically and in many foreign markets. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. In order for us to market our products in Europe, Canada, Japan and certain other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. For example, we still have not obtained regulatory approval for our Thin Film products in Japan. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. International sales also may be limited or disrupted by political instability, price controls, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect demand for our products by increasing the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in all of the countries where we intend to market our products, or that we will not incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances, or that we will be able to successfully commercialize current or future products in various foreign markets. Delays in receipt of approvals or clearances to market our products in foreign countries, failure to receive such approvals or clearances or the future loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. We depend on a few key officers Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and other key scientific staff, including Christopher J. Calhoun, our Chief Executive Officer, and Marc Hedrick, MD, our President. We rely upon them for strategic business decisions and guidance. We believe that our future success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend in large part upon whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key scientific staff or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Two executive officers left us in 2006, one in connection with a summer 2006 reduction of our headcount by 18%. Companies which make personnel cuts sometimes find the resulting loss of experience and lack of coverage can cause important business problems. We may not have enough product liability insurance The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of our regenerative cell and bioresorbable implant products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us, our distribution partners or licensees. There can be no guarantee that our clinical trial and commercial product liability insurance is adequate or will continue to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost, if at all. A product liability claim, product recall or other claim, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, could have a substantial negative effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. Also, well-publicized claims could cause our stock to fall sharply, even before the merits of the claims are decided by a court. Our charter documents contain anti-takeover provisions and we have adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan to prevent hostile takeovers Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could prevent or delay the acquisition of the Company by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. They could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of the Company, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Such provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company and consequently could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Also, in 2003 we adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan, of the kind often referred to as a poison pill. The purpose of the Stockholder Rights Plan is to prevent coercive takeover tactics that may otherwise be utilized in takeover attempts. The existence of such a rights plan may also prevent or delay a change in control of the Company, and this prevention or delay adversely affect the market price of our shares. We pay no dividends We currently do not intend to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. -19- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 