ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply to any issuer, or risks that we currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS LOSS OF KEY SUPPLIER AUTHORIZATIONS, LACK OF PRODUCT AVAILABILITY, OR CHANGES IN SUPPLIER DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES AND EARNINGS. Our business is dependent on maintaining an immediately available supply of a sufficient quantity of various products to meet customer demand. Of our overall dollar volume of product purchases in fiscal 2006, almost half was purchased from our top 10 suppliers. Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding, but are terminable by either party. The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products from these suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that particular products will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. Limitations on our access to products could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors generally, or Applied in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts our business. For example, key suppliers could change the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing products, geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations, purchase incentive programs, product purchase or stocking expectations, or other aspects of our relationships. AN INCREASE IN COMPETITION COULD DECREASE SALES OR EARNINGS. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete primarily with multinational, national, regional, and local distributors of industrial machinery parts, equipment, and supplies. Competition is largely focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price. Some existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater financial resources than we do. To the extent existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower our prices for products or services, thereby adversely affecting financial results. 10 INCREASES IN PRODUCT AND ENERGY COSTS COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. Recent price increases in commodity materials, such as steel, have resulted in industrial product manufacturers increasing the prices of products we distribute. In addition, a portion of our distribution costs is comprised of fuel and freight costs, which have increased significantly in recent years. Our ability to pass on increases in our costs depends on market conditions. Raising our prices could result in decreased sales volume, which could significantly reduce our profitability. A DISRUPTION OF OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS COULD INCREASE EXPENSES, DECREASE SALES, OR OTHERWISE REDUCE EARNINGS. Our ability to transact business has become increasingly reliant on our information systems. We depend on information systems to process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations, and provide superior service to our customers. A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems could materially impair fundamental business processes. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO RETAIN AND ATTRACT QUALIFIED SALES AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PERSONNEL. There are significant costs associated with hiring and training sales and customer service professionals. We greatly benefit from having employees who are familiar with the products we sell and their applications, as well as our customer and supplier relationships. We could be adversely affected by a shortage of available skilled workers or the loss of a significant number of our sales or customer service professionals, including through retirement as the workforce ages. FUTURE ACQUISITIONS ARE A KEY COMPONENT OF OUR ANTICIPATED GROWTH. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY OR COMPLETE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS, INTEGRATE THEM EFFECTIVELY INTO OUR OPERATIONS, OR REALIZE THEIR ANTICIPATED BENEFITS. Many industries we serve are mature. As a result, our growth in recent years has resulted in substantial part from the acquisition of other businesses. While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. In addition, existing or future competitors, including financial buyers, may increasingly seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable opportunities. We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations. However, substantial costs, delays, or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions into our operations could adversely affect our business or financial results. We could face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, information technology, personnel, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. Further, even if we integrate successfully our operations with our acquisitions, we may not be able to realize the cost savings, sales increases, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the time frame we expect. Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: our ability to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory effectively, and to consolidate facilities; the 11 incurrence of significant integration costs or charges in order to achieve those benefits; and our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations and customer relationships. In addition, future acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial resources. AN INTERRUPTION OF OPERATIONS AT OUR HEADQUARTERS OR DISTRIBUTION CENTERS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Our business is highly dependent on maintaining operations at our headquarters and distribution centers. A serious, prolonged interruption of operations due to power outages, terrorist attack, earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. OUR GROWTH OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES INCREASES OUR EXPOSURE TO GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS. Our foreign operations contributed 11.3% of our sales in 2006. If we continue to grow outside the U.S., the risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business, and currency fluctuations will increase. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION RISK DUE TO THE NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from business transactions. These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, or employment matters. In addition, we could face claims over other matters, such as claims arising from our status as a government contractor or corporate or securities law matters. The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings may result in higher operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS HEAVILY UPON THE OPERATING LEVELS OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND THE ECONOMIC FACTORS THAT AFFECT THEM. Some of the primary markets for the products and services we sell are subject to cyclical fluctuations that affect demand for goods that our customers produce. Consequently, the demand for our services and products has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same economic factors that affect the demand for and production of customers' goods. When customers or prospective customers reduce their production levels in response to lower demand for their products, they have less need for our products and services. Also during periods of economic slowdown, our credit losses could increase. In addition, because some customers are moving portions of operations overseas in order to reduce manufacturing costs, our ability to continue to serve those customers may be impaired and the size of our overall market opportunity in North America may be diminished. THE CONSOLIDATION OCCURRING IN OUR CUSTOMERS' AND SUPPLIERS' INDUSTRIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. In recent years, we have witnessed increased consolidation among our product suppliers and customers. As customer industries consolidate, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from larger, national contracts, which could 12 adversely impact the amount and volatility of our earnings. In addition, consolidation increases the risk of larger customers seeking to purchase industrial parts, equipment, and supplies directly from product manufacturers rather than through distributors. Similarly, continued consolidation among our product suppliers could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases. OTHER RISKS In addition to the risks identified above, other risks we face include, but are not limited to, the following: - changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by Applied; - changes in the market prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; - changes in customer procurement policies and practices; - changes in product manufacturer sales policies and practices; - changes in operating expenses; - the variability and timing of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances, customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; - the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions; - our ability to access capital markets as needed; - volatility of our stock price and the resulting impact on our financial statements; - changes in accounting policies and practices; - organizational changes within the company; and, - adverse regulation and legislation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 