Item 1A. Risk Factors FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered by investors before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed as a consequence of any of the following risks and uncertainties. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations, or result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and our ability to forecast our quarterly operating results is limited, so our operating results may not meet our guidance or third party expectations. Our net revenue and operating results have in the past, and may in the future, vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors limit our ability to accurately predict our operating results on a quarterly basis, and include factors discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section together with the following: • The timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services; • Certain markets in which we compete are relatively new and are evolving; • Variability and unpredictability in the rate of growth in the markets in which we compete; • Our ability to continue to increase our respective market shares consistent with past rates of increase; • Our variable sales cycles, which may lengthen as the complexity of products and competition in our markets increases; • The level of competition in our target product markets, including new entrants or substantial discounting; • Market acceptance of our new products and product enhancements; • Announcements, introductions and transitions of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, and deferrals of customer orders which may result from such announcements, introductions and transitions; • Technological changes in our product target markets; • Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; • Our recognition of revenue in accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 97-2 requires that some product revenue be recognized ratably over a defined period or deferred to a future period if we are unable to establish fair value for the undelivered element, such as support; and 12 Table of Contents • Future macroeconomic conditions in our domestic and international markets, as well as the level of discretionary IT spending generally. A high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing overhead, technical support, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions, are essentially fixed in the short term. As a result, if our net revenue is less than forecast, such expenses cannot effectively be reduced and our quarterly operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results should not necessarily be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In the past our quarterly results have on occasion failed to meet our quarterly guidance and the expectations of public market analysts or investors, and it is likely that this will occur in the future. If this occurs our stock price likely will decline, and may decline significantly. Such a decline may also occur even when we meet our guidance but our results or future guidance fail to meet third party expectations. We must anticipate market needs, and develop and introduce new products and enhance existing products to rapidly meet those needs, or we will lose market share and our operating results will be adversely affected. To maintain our competitive position in a market characterized by rapid rates of technological advancement, we must correctly anticipate market requirements and invest our research and development resources to meet those requirements. The introduction of new products by others, market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete or make it easier for other products to compete with our products. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to: • develop and maintain competitive products; • enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • bring products to market on a timely basis at competitive prices; • identify and respond to emerging technological trends in the market; and • respond effectively to new technological changes or new product announcements by others. There is no guarantee that we will accurately predict the direction in which the Secure Web Gateway and WAN Application Delivery markets will evolve. Failure on our part to anticipate the direction of our markets and to develop products and enhancements that meet the needs of those markets will significantly impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. The WAN Applications Delivery market is intensely competitive and certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources, and may take actions that could weaken our competitive position or reduce our net revenue. We have increasingly invested in and focused on the WAN Application Delivery market. This market is intensely competitive, and the intensity of this competition is expected to increase in the future. Such increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and we cannot be certain that competitive pressures we face will not seriously harm our business. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. In addition, we expect that there will be competition from other established and emerging companies as the market for WAN Application Delivery products continues to develop and expand. 13 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories; significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources; significantly greater name recognition; and a larger installed base of customers than we do. Such competitors also may have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of our industry. As a result, those competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, promotion and sale of their products than we can. They also may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other providers, thereby increasing their ability to provide a broader suite of products, and potentially causing customers to defer purchasing decisions. Also, larger competitors may be able to integrate some of the functionality of our products into existing infrastructure products or to bundle WAN Application Delivery products with other product offerings. Finally, they may engage in aggressive pricing strategies or discounting. Any of the foregoing may limit our ability to compete effectively in the market and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our acquisitions may not provide the anticipated benefits and may disrupt our existing business. In June of 2008, we completed our acquisition of Packeteer, Inc. (“Packeteer”). We have also acquired other businesses in the past, including our acquisition of Permeo Technologies, Inc. (“Permeo”) and our acquisition of certain assets of the NetCache business from Network Appliance. It is likely we will acquire additional businesses or assets in the future. There is no guaranty that such acquisitions will yield the benefits we anticipate. The success of any acquisition is impacted by a number of factors, and may be subject to the following risks: • inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • loss of key employees; and • substantial transaction costs. Acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: • dilution of our current stockholders’ percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; • assumption of additional liabilities; • incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; • adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to make large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of restructuring and other related expenses; • liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and • creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense or impairment charges. The occurrence of any of the above risks could seriously harm our business. Economic uncertainty and adverse macroeconomic conditions may harm our business. Our revenues and margins are dependent on various economic factors, including rates of inflation, currency fluctuations, energy costs, levels of consumer sentiment, and other macroeconomic factors which may impact levels of business spending. These conditions may affect corporate spending for IT products and services in specific geographies or more broadly. A decrease in corporate spending or demand for our products and services could result in: • a reduction in our net revenue, gross margin and operating margin; 14 Table of Contents • increased price competition for our products and services; • risk of excess and obsolete inventory; • higher overhead costs as a percentage of net revenue, and • a reduced ability to collect customer receivables. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends, which could limit our ability to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. Recent adverse economic and market conditions in the United States have resulted in delays in closing customer orders in that region, and further uncertainty or deterioration in these conditions could materially impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our internal investments in research and development may not yield the anticipated benefits. The success of our business is predicated on our ability to create new products and technologies and to anticipate future market requirements and applicable industry standards. The process of developing new technologies is time consuming, complex and uncertain, and requires commitment of significant resources well in advance of being able to fully determine market requirements and industry standards. Furthermore, we may not be able to timely execute new product or technical initiatives because of errors in product planning or timing, technical difficulties that we cannot timely resolve, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors bringing products to market before we do and a consequent decrease in our market share and net revenue. Our inability to timely and cost-effectively introduce new products and product enhancements, or the failure of these new products or enhancements to achieve market acceptance and comply with industry standards, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, our introduction of new products and product enhancements could result in the obsolescence of previously purchased or committed inventory, potentially requiring the recording of material charges, which would reduce our net income. Unless we develop better market awareness of our company and our products, our net revenue may not grow as anticipated. We are a relatively new entrant in the WAN Application Delivery market and, in our opinion, have not yet established sufficient market awareness of our participation in that market. Market awareness of our capabilities and products is essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly in the WAN Application Delivery market. If our advertising and marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. If the market for WAN Application Delivery products does not develop as we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve an acceptable increase of our net revenue, and the price of our stock may decline. We have increasingly invested in and focused on the WAN Application Delivery market. However, that is a new and rapidly evolving market. If this market fails to grow as we anticipate, or grows more slowly than we anticipate, we may not be able to sell as many of our WAN Application Delivery products as we currently project, which would result in a decline in our anticipated net revenue and could result in a decline in our stock price. Third party product developments may impact the value of our products to users. Our WAN Application Delivery appliances are purchased to secure, accelerate and control the delivery of third party software applications and content. It is possible that the providers of software applications and operating systems which operate with the software applications and content accelerated by our appliances may 15 Table of Contents enhance the performance of their software, such that further acceleration of affected applications and content is not necessary. This would make our products less valuable to users of that software. In addition, manufacturers of hardware or software may incorporate functionality similar to that offered by our WAN Application Delivery or Secure Web Gateway products directly into their products, which would make our products less valuable to users of those products. Any of the foregoing may limit our ability to sell our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. To forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and calculate our tax expense by jurisdiction. If the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We issued convertible notes and warrants to fund our acquisition of Packeteer which could impact our liquidity. We issued warrants and zero coupon senior convertible notes in an aggregate principal amount of $80 million that mature in 2013, in order to acquire Packeteer. If these notes are not converted prior to maturity we will be required to repay the principal amount, and may not have funds available to do so. As well, the notes contain certain conditions of default and, should a default occur, the holders of the notes may be able to require early payment of the notes. If we are unable to raise additional capital, our business could be harmed. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and short term investments will enable us to meet our capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if cash is required for unanticipated needs, we may need additional capital during that period. The development and marketing of new products, the investment in our sales and marketing efforts, and the integration of the Packeteer business will require a significant commitment of resources. If the market for our products develops at a slower pace than anticipated, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we were unable to raise additional capital when required, our business could be seriously harmed. We have a history of losses and profitability could be difficult to sustain. While we have been profitable in certain quarters, we have not been able to maintain consistent profitability on a quarterly basis. Although we were profitable in all four quarters of fiscal 2008, we were not profitable in three of the four fiscal quarters in fiscal 2007, and may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our ability to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis will be affected by changes in our business and the demand for our products and services. We expect our operating expenses to 16 Table of Contents increase as we endeavor to grow revenue, and we anticipate that we will make investments in our business. Our results of operations will be harmed if our revenue does not increase at a rate commensurate with the rate of increase in our expenses. If our revenue is less than anticipated or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted quickly and efficiently, we may continue to experience losses on a quarterly and annual basis. We must attract, assimilate and retain key personnel on a cost-effective basis, or our ability to execute our business strategy and generate sales could be harmed. We depend on key management, research and development, and sales personnel, and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel on an ongoing basis. Our success will depend in part on our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We have seen an increase in competition with respect to cash and equity compensation offered by employers in the Silicon Valley, and in other areas where we have operations, that may make it more difficult to attract and retain highly qualified employees. The majority of our employees, including our senior management personnel, are employed on an “at-will” basis, which may make it easier for key employees to leave us and move to new employment. Our inability to timely hire replacement or additional employees may impact our operations, since new hires frequently require extensive training before they achieve desired levels of productivity. This may affect our ability to grow our net revenue. In particular, new sales personnel typically take a number of months to achieve acceptable productivity and generate the expected level of sales. We rely significantly on third party sales channel partners to sell our products. A significant amount of our revenue is generated through sales by our sales channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. During fiscal 2008, approximately 96.4% of our revenue was generated through our indirect sales channels. We depend upon these partners to generate sales opportunities and to independently manage the sales process for opportunities with which they are involved. In order to increase our net revenue, we will need to maintain our existing sales channel partners and add new sales channel partners and effectively train and integrate them with our sales process. If we are unsuccessful in those efforts, our business will not grow and our operating results will be adversely affected. Our products are complex, and there can be no assurance that the sales training programs that are offered to our sales channel partners will be effective. In addition, our sales channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services for reasons unrelated to training. Most of our sales channel partners do not have minimum purchase or resale requirements, and may cease selling our products at any time. They may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of products competitive to ours. There is no assurance that we will retain these sales channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement sales channel partners in the future. The loss of one or more of our key sales channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results within that area, as new sales channel partners typically require extensive training and take several months to achieve acceptable productivity. We also depend on many of our sales channel partners to deliver first line service and support for our products. Any significant failure on their part to provide such service and support could impact customer satisfaction and future sales of our products. In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our sales channel partners. If we are provided with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount, timing or accuracy of our reported net revenue could be affected. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element of a customer order, revenue relating to the entire order may be deferred until the revenue recognition criteria for all elements of the customer order are met. This could lower our net revenue in one period and increase it in future periods, resulting in greater variability in net revenue and income period to period. In the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into arrangements with our customers that require us to deliver a combination of different appliances, software products or services. We refer to each individual appliance, software product or service as an “element” of the overall arrangement with our customer. In some cases, these arrangements may require us to deliver particular elements in a future period. We do not recognize revenue on any element until it has been delivered. In addition, we do not recognize revenue on any delivered element until we can determine the fair value of all undelivered elements in the arrangement. If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, all revenue is generally deferred and recognized at the earlier of when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be determined. When the undelivered element for which we do not have a fair value is maintenance, revenue for the entire arrangement is recognized ratably over the maintenance period. As a result, a portion of the revenue we recognize in each quarter could relate to previously delivered products. Consequently, an increase in the number of multiple element arrangements with undelivered elements for which we cannot determine the fair value would negatively impact our net revenue in the current period, while increasing net revenue in future periods. In addition, we may not adjust our cost structure commensurately with the reduction in net revenue recognized in the current period, which would reduce our income for the current period. If there is a significant increase in sales related to multiple element arrangements with undelivered elements for which we cannot determine the fair value, we may not meet current revenue expectations since revenue associated with such arrangements will be recognized in future periods. We are dependent on original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers to design and manufacture our products, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. We depend primarily on original design manufacturers (each of whom is a third party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platform for our products. We also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of whom is a third party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products and the assemblies and components contained in our products. These manufacturers are not committed to design or manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. Also, from time to time, we may be required to add new manufacturers or manufacturing sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new original design manufacturer and contract manufacturer relationships and sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships; if one or more of our design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; or if we are required to add or replace design manufacturers or contract manufacturers or sites. In addition, these manufacturers have access to certain of our critical intellectual property and could wrongly disclose or misappropriate such property. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and Taiwan and other countries and is, therefore, subject to risks associated with doing business in those countries. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business. We provide forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers on a rolling 12-month basis. If our forecast exceeds our actual requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess charges or we may have liability for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margin. If our forecast is less than our 18 Table of Contents actual requirements, the contract manufacturers may have insufficient time and components to produce our product requirements, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and deferral or loss of revenue. As well, we may be required to purchase sufficient inventory to satisfy our future needs in situations where a component is being discontinued. If we fail to accurately predict our requirements, we may become liable for excess inventory that we and our contract manufacturers cannot use or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on single and, in some cases, sole and limited source suppliers for several key components, so our business is susceptible to shortages, unavailability, or price fluctuations. We have limited sources of supply for certain key components of our products, which exposes us to the risk of component shortages or unavailability. In addition, we are unable to rapidly change quantities and delivery schedules because the procurement of certain components is subject to lengthy lead times and the qualification of additional or alternate sources is time consuming, costly and difficult. In the event our business growth exceeds our projections, or required components are otherwise in scarce supply, we may be subject to shortages, delays or unavailability of such components, or potential price increases, which may be substantial. If we are unable to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices in order to timely build our products, customer shipments may be delayed. This would adversely affect both our relationships with those customers and our net revenue. Alternatively, we may pay increased prices, which would impact our gross margin. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our gross margin is affected by a number of factors, and may be below our expectations or the expectations of investors and analysts, which could cause a decline in our stock price. Our gross margin percentage has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: • market acceptance of our products and fluctuations in demand; • the timing and size of customer orders and product implementations; • increased price competition and changes in product pricing; • actions taken by our competitors; • new product introductions and enhancements; • manufacturing and component costs; • availability of sufficient inventory to meet demand; • purchase of inventory in excess of demand; • our execution of our strategy and operating plans; • changes in our sales model; • geographies in which sales are made; and • revenue recognition rules. For example, we have in the past entered into large revenue transactions with certain customers that, because of the product mix and volume discount, have decreased our gross margin percentage. We may, in the future, enter into similar transactions. As well, our lower end appliances have lower margins than our higher end appliances, and if our customers submit a large order or orders for our lower end appliances, the combination of lower margins and the volume discount provided to those customers would negatively impact our gross margin percentage. 19 Table of Contents Even if we achieve our net revenue and operating expense objectives, our net income and operating results may be below our expectations and the expectations of investors and analysts if our gross margins are below expectations. This could cause our stock price to decline. Our international operations expose us to risks. We currently have operations in a number of foreign countries. In fiscal 2008, 53.2% of our total net revenue was derived from customers outside of North America; thus, our business is substantially dependent on economic conditions and IT spending in markets outside North America. The expansion of our international operations and entry into additional international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, and subjects us to certain inherent risks including: • technical difficulties and costs associated with product localization; • challenges associated with coordinating product development efforts among geographically dispersed areas; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; • our limited experience in establishing a sales and marketing presence, together with the appropriate internal systems, processes and controls, in certain geographic markets; • longer payment cycles for sales in certain foreign countries; • seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and at other times in various countries; • the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • import and export restrictions and tariffs and other trade protection initiatives; • potential failures of our foreign employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust laws, trade regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • compliance with foreign laws and other government controls, such as those affecting trade, privacy, the environment and employment; • management, staffing, legal and other costs of operating an enterprise spread over various countries; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • political or economic instability, war or terrorism in the countries where we are doing business; and • fears concerning travel or health risks that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services in any country in which the business sales culture encourages face-to-face interactions. To the extent we are unable to effectively manage our international operations and these risks, our international sales may be adversely affected, we may incur additional and unanticipated costs, and we may be subject to litigation or regulatory action. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. The matters relating to our historical stock granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements in March 2007 have required us to incur substantial expenses, have resulted in litigation and regulatory inquiries, and may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and governmental enforcement actions. Our historical stock granting practices and the consequent restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory and government enforcement actions. On 20 Table of Contents March 28, 2007, in our Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2006, we restated our consolidated financial statements as of April 30, 2005, and for the years ended April 30, 2005 and 2004, to correctly account for stock option grants for which we had determined that the measurement date for accounting purposes was different from the stated grant date (the “March 2007 Restatement”). In addition, we also restated our selected consolidated financial data as of and for the years ended April 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and the unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the quarters in the years ended April 30, 2006 and 2005, with the exception of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 (which had not then been filed). For more information on these matters, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Background of the Stock Option Investigation, Findings, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, Remedial Measures and Related Proceedings,” and Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2006, and Item 2, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Background of the Stock Option Investigation, Findings, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, Remedial Measures and Related Proceedings,” and Item 4, “Controls and Procedures,” on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2007, each of which was filed with the SEC on March 28, 2007. The matters addressed in the March 2007 Restatement have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, multiple derivative complaints have been filed in state and federal courts against our directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants, and certain proceedings with respect to such matters are ongoing at the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California. We also may become the subject of, or otherwise be required to incur legal fees and costs in connection with, additional private litigation, regulatory proceedings, or government enforcement actions in connection with the March 2007 Restatement. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of such activities or that such outcomes will be consistent with the findings of our Special Committee reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2006. The resolution of these matters has been, and will continue to be, time consuming and expensive, and will distract management from the conduct of our business. Our available directors’ and officers’ liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover our legal expenses or those of persons we are obligated to indemnify, and may not cover all items for which we must procure representation or for which we are obligated to provide indemnification. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the March 2007 Restatement and the related litigation and regulatory proceedings, and any negative outcome that may occur from them, could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate future net revenue. In fiscal 2008, we continued to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services related to the matters addressed above. In addition, we incurred expenses in connection with our resolution of issues related to the March 2007 Restatement that affected our international and domestic employees, including payment of taxes due under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes and controls. Our growth, as well as recent regulatory requirements and changes in financial standards, has placed increased demands on our management and our infrastructure. The acquisition of Packeteer, or any other acquisitions we may make, also will place increased demands on us. We need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes and controls to effectively manage our operations and growth, including our international growth into new geographies. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems, processes and controls in a timely or efficient manner, and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems, processes and controls. Our failure to improve our systems, processes and controls may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. 21 Table of Contents We rely on technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used with our products. We rely on technology that we license from third parties, including third party software and open source software that is used with certain of our products. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms, we will face delays in releases of our software or we will be required to delete this functionality from our software until equivalent technology can be licensed or developed and integrated into our current product. In addition, the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights might require us to engage in litigation regarding these matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any of these developments could seriously harm our business. Undetected product errors, or failures found in new products may result in a loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could cause us to incur significant costs, reduce our sales or result in litigation. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected operating errors when first introduced or as new versions or enhancements are released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products or new versions until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and loss of or delay in market acceptance and sales opportunities. This could materially adversely affect our operating results. These errors could also cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. In addition, all of our products operate on our internally developed operating system. As a result, any error in the operating system will affect all of our products. We have experienced minor errors in the past in connection with new products and enhancements to existing products. We expect that errors will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments, which could seriously harm our business. Since our end user customers install our appliances directly into their network infrastructures, any errors, defects or other performance problems with our products could negatively impact their networks or other Internet users, resulting in financial or other losses. While we typically seek by contract to limit our exposure to damages, it is possible that such limitations might not exist or might not be enforced in the event of a product liability claim. Moreover, a product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time-consuming and costly and could seriously harm our business reputation. We are the target of various litigation and regulatory proceedings, which could result in substantial costs, divert management attention and resources, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. As described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are a party to various litigation, including class action litigation arising out of our initial public offering in 1999 and stockholder derivative actions arising out of allegedly misleading statements about our prospects made between February 20, 2004 and May 27, 2004, which actions were subsequently amended to seek relief on our behalf from certain defendants with respect to our historical stock option practices. As described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are the subject of inquiries and investigations conducted by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California. Any material litigation and regulatory proceeding inevitably results in the diversion of our management’s attention and expenditure of our resources. As well, any negative result or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents If the protection of our proprietary technology is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our market share could decline. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to create proprietary technology and to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in that technology, as well as our ability to defend against adverse claims of third parties with respect to our technology and intellectual property. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, and patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and unauthorized third parties, including our competitors, may independently develop similar or superior technology, duplicate or reverse engineer aspects of our products, or design around our patented technology or other intellectual property. As of April 30, 2008, we had 18 issued U.S. patents, 34 pending U.S. patent applications (provisional and non-provisional), and 1 pending foreign patent application. There can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue or that the patent examination process will not result in our narrowing the claims applied for. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to detect any infringement of our existing or future patents (if any) or, if infringement is detected, that our patents will be enforceable or that any damages awarded to us will be sufficient to adequately compensate us. There can be no assurance or guarantee that any products, services or technologies that we are presently developing, or will develop in the future, will result in intellectual property that is subject to legal protection under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction and that produces a competitive advantage for us. Third parties could assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past and may in the future claim that our current or future products infringe their intellectual property rights, and these claims, even if without merit, could harm our business by increasing our costs, reducing our net revenue or by creating customer concerns that result in reduced sales. This is particularly true in the patent area, as an increasing number of U.S. patents covering computer networking and Internet technology have been issued in recent years. Patent owners, including those that do not commercially manufacture or sell products, may claim that one or more of our products infringes a patent they own. For example, on or about April 18, 2008, Realtime Data, LLC d/b/a IXO filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Packeteer, Inc., a company we acquired on June 6, 2008, and subsequently amended the complaint and named us as a defendant on June 20, 2008, (see Note 10 in the Consolidated Financial Statements). We expect that companies in the Internet and networking industries will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. The market price of our stock is volatile, and is likely to be volatile in the future. Since our initial public offering, the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Such volatility in the trading price of our stock can occur in response to general market conditions, changes in the IT or technology market generally or changes in the specific markets in which we operate, and cause an increase or decline in our stock price without regard to our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could decline quickly and significantly if we 23 Table of Contents fail to achieve our guidance or if our performance fails to meet the expectation of public market analysts or investors. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, among others: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in macroeconomic conditions; • the introduction of new products by our competitors; • our ability to keep pace with changing technological requirements; • changes in market valuations of Internet-related and networking companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a major customer; • additions or departures of key personnel; • fluctuations in stock market volumes; • investor confidence in our stock, technology stocks and the stock market in general; • speculation in the press or investment communication about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, or business; • significant transactions; and • regulatory or litigation matters. It is not uncommon for securities class actions or other litigation to be brought against a company after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, and we have been subject to such litigation in the past. Such actions could result in management distraction and expense and, further, result in a decline in our stock price. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of export license or under an export license exception, because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 24 Table of Contents Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event. Our business operations are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. In addition, a substantial portion of our facilities, including our headquarters, are located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. We do not carry earthquake insurance for earthquake-related losses. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. To the extent that such events disrupt our business or adversely impact our reputation, such events could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The legal environment in which we operate is uncertain and claims against us could cause our business to suffer. Our products operate in part by storing material available on the Internet and making this material available to end users from our appliance. As well, our appliance may be used to block content from being accessed. This creates the potential for claims to be made against us, either directly or through contractual indemnification provisions with our customers, for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, personal injury, censorship, invasion of privacy or other legal theories based on the nature, content, copying or modification of this content. As of April 30, 2008, we have not accrued any liabilities relating to indemnification provisions with our customers. It is also possible that if any information provided through any of our products contains errors, third parties could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on this information. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to protect us from all liability that may be imposed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 