Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material, adverse effect on us. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In its report dated March 9, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that the uncertainty surrounding our ability to replenish our capital raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This uncertainty is one of the factors that has cast doubt about the our ability to continue in operation. Management continues to assess a number of other factors including liquidity, capital, and profitability that affect our ability to continue in operation. Although management is committed to developing strategies to eliminate the uncertainty surrounding each of these areas, the outcome of these developments cannot be predicted at this time. If we are unable to identify and execute a viable strategic alternative, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We have sustained losses from a decline in credit quality and may see further losses. Our ability to generate earnings is significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We have sustained losses primarily because borrowers, guarantors, or related parties have failed to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, and we failed to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. We could sustain additional losses for these reasons. Problems with credit quality or asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have recently identified credit deficiencies with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the downturn in the residential housing industry. As a result of this decline, property values for this type of collateral have declined substantially. In response to this determination, we increased our loan loss reserve during 2009 to $25.4 million to address the risks inherent within our loan portfolio. Recent developments, including further deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market as a whole, may cause management to adjust its opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to additional increases in our provision for loan losses, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may have higher loan losses than we have provided for in our allowance for loan losses. Our actual loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses. Our average loan size has increased in recent years over historic levels, and reliance on our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. In addition, our nonperforming assets have increased dramatically over the past eighteen months due to the severe housing downturn and real estate market deterioration in each of our market areas. Including loans classified since December 31, 2009, we had $184.2 million in loans on our classified list. Classified loans are loans graded as substandard, doubtful or loss. Also as of December 31, 2009, approximately 19% of our loan portfolio was comprised of either loans not accruing interest or loans past due 90 days or more (and 21% of our loan portfolio was comprised of either loans not accruing interest or loans past due 30 days or more). Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or entire chargeoff. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including: • cost overruns; • declining property values; • mismanaged construction; • inferior or improper construction techniques; • economic changes or downturns during construction; • rising interest rates that may prevent sale of the property; and • failure to sell completed projects or units in a timely manner. 29 The occurrence of any of the preceding risks could result in the deterioration of one or more of these loans which could significantly increase our percentage of nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans may result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the related provision for loan losses and an increase in chargeoffs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, our nonperforming assets were $137.3 million. If the current economic conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, it is possible that the level of nonperforming assets will rise to higher levels in 2010, requiring additional provisions for loan losses. As a result of our bank’s examination by the OCC in 2008, we are operating under a consent order pursuant to which the OCC has required us to take certain actions. The bank entered into a consent order with the OCC on April 27, 2009, which contains a requirement that our bank achieve and maintain minimum capital requirements that exceed the minimum regulatory capital ratios for “well capitalized” banks by August 25, 2009. As a result of the terms of the executed consent order, the bank was no longer deemed “well capitalized,” regardless of its capital levels. As of November 25, 2009, the bank was notified that its capital classification was significantly undercapitalized. Under this enforcement action, we no longer meet the regulatory requirements to be eligible for expedited processing of branch applications and certain other regulatory approvals, and we are required to obtain OCC or FDIC approval before making certain payments to departing executives and before adding new directors or senior executives. Our regulators have considerable discretion in whether to grant required approvals, and no assurance can be given that such approvals would be forthcoming. In addition, we are required to take certain other actions in the areas of capital, liquidity, asset quality and interest rate risk management, as well as to file periodic reports with the OCC regarding our progress in complying with the order. Any material failure to comply with the terms of the consent order could result in further enforcement action by the OCC, including receivership. Based on discussions with the OCC regarding these plans and their correspondence to us dated August 28, 2009, we resubmitted our capital plan and strategic plan on September 28, 2009 to incorporate recent developments in our business strategy and the impact of the change in our president and CEO on our operations. We are working with the OCC and responding to feedback on the capital plan and strategic plan. Our board of directors will adopt and implement these plans upon receiving a written determination of no supervisory objection from the OCC. While we intend to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the consent order and subsequent OCC guidance, we may be unable to comply fully with the deadlines or other terms of the consent order. We are also subject to a written agreement with the FRB which requires us to take certain actions. On June 15, 2009, we entered into a written agreement with the holding company's primary federal regulator, the FRB. The agreement is designed to enhance our holding company's ability to act as a source of strength to our bank. Under this enforcement action, we are required to obtain FRB approval before taking certain actions, such as declaring or paying any dividends; directly or indirectly taking dividends or any other form of payment representing a reduction in capital from the bank; making any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities; directly or indirectly, incurring, increasing or guaranteeing any debt, and; directly or indirectly, purchasing or redeeming any shares of our stock. Additionally, we agreed to comply with certain notice provisions when appointing any new director or senior executive officer, or changing the responsibilities of any senior executive officer so that the officer would assume a different senior executive officer position. On July 31, 2009, under the terms of the written agreement that we entered into with the FRB, management submitted a capital plan to the FRB. On October 5, 2009, management resubmitted our capital plan to the FRB to reflect the changes incorporated in the revised capital plan submitted to the OCC on September 28, 2009. We are working with the regulators and responding to feedback on our capital plan and will adopt the written plan within 10 days of its approval by the FRB. Any material failure to comply with the terms of the written agreement could result in further enforcement action by the FRB. While we have taken action and intend to take such further action as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the written agreement with the FRB, we may be unable to do so. Our bank may become subject to a federal conservatorship or receivership if it cannot comply with the consent order, or if its condition continues to deteriorate. As noted above, the executed consent order with the OCC requires us to create and implement a capital plan, including provisions for contingency funding arrangements. In addition, the condition of our loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete our capital and other financial resources. Should we fail to comply with the capital and liquidity funding requirements in the consent order, or suffer continued deterioration in our financial condition, we may be subject to being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership by the OCC, with the FDIC appointed as conservator or receiver. If these events occur, we probably would suffer a complete loss of the value of our ownership interest in the bank and we subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by the FDIC and the OCC. 30 Certain built-in losses could be limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Certain of our assets may have built-in losses, such as loans, to the extent the basis of such assets exceeds fair market value. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may limit the benefit of these built-in losses which exist at the time of an "ownership change." A Section 382 "ownership change" occurs if a shareholder or a group(s) of shareholders who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an "ownership change" occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of any net operating loss carryforwards or recognized built-in losses we can use to reduce our taxable income. The Section 382 limitation would equal the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the "ownership change" and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the "ownership change." A number of special rules apply to calculating this limit. The limitations contained in Section 382 on recognized built-in losses apply for a five year period beginning on the date of the "ownership change" and any recognized built-in losses that are limited by Section 382 may be carried forward and reduce our future taxable income for up to 20 years subject to the cumulative Section 382 limitation, after which they expire. If an "ownership change" were to occur, the annual Section 382 limitation could defer or eliminate our ability to use some, or all, of the built-in-losses to offset future taxable income. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and the recent weakening of the local real estate market could continue to hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 93.0% of our loans had real estate as the primary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The dramatic declines in the real estate market in recent years have resulted in increased loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, primarily in our residential real estate construction and development portfolio. These loans carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing real estate since repayment is dependent on the ultimate completion of the project or home and usually on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Slow housing conditions have affected some of these borrowers’ ability to sell the completed projects in a timely manner and we believe that these trends are likely to continue. In some cases, this downturn has resulted in a significant impairment to the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. If real estate values continue to decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If, during a period of reduced real estate values, we are required to increase the allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. This prolonged weakening in the residential real estate market in 2008 and 2009 has resulted in an increase in our nonperforming loans, and there is a risk that this trend will continue, which could result in a net loss of earnings and an increase in our provision for loan losses and loan chargeoffs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This weakened market has resulted in and may continue to result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans, and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Although we believe that the combination of general reserves in the allowance for loan losses and established impairments of these loans will be adequate to account for the current risk associated with the loans secured by real estate in our portfolio as of December 31, 2009, there can be no assurances in this regard. The lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio makes it difficult to assess the adequacy of our loan loss reserves accurately. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; • our historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective, and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. In addition, due to our rapid growth over the past several years and our limited operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio were originated in recent years. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as seasoning. As a result, a portfolio of more mature loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If chargeoffs in future periods increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would decrease our net income and our capital. 31 Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial condition. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make future adjustments to our loan loss reserve levels to reflect the changing risk inherent in our portfolio of existing loans and any additions or reductions in our loan portfolio, which may negatively affect our short-term results of operations. Federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan chargeoffs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision of loans charged off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our decisions regarding credit risk may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed our loan loss reserves. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the credit; • credit risks of a particular customer; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory limits, in certain circumstances we have made loans that exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory limits, or both. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $88.2 million, or approximately 16.4% of our loans, net of unearned income, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory limits. We generally consider making such loans only after taking into account the financial strength of the borrower. As real estate values have declined in our market areas, the number of loans with loan-to-value ratios that exceed supervisory limits has increased. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory limits, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies or defaults in our portfolio. Any such delinquencies or defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our liquidity needs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We have historically relied on dividends from our bank subsidiary as a viable source of funds to service our holding company’s operating expenses, which are typically dividends and interest payments on preferred stock and other borrowings; however, given our bank's recent losses and restrictions on its activities as a result of the consent order with the OCC, this source of liquidity is no longer viable. Therefore, we have a greater dependence on other funding sources to cover these expenses, such as raising capital or drawing on our holding company’s line of credit with a correspondent bank. We are not permitted to make additional draws on our holding company’s line of credit. On January 7, 2010, we announced that we had reached an agreement to modify our holding company’s loan agreement with its lender. The modifications to the loan agreement cure existing covenant violations, subject to regulatory approval. In addition, we have agreed, subject to regulatory approval, to pay $3.5 million no later than March 15, 2010 to our lender, which would fully satisfy our obligations under the line of credit. However, we believe that we must increase our capital ratios in order to obtain regulatory approval for this agreement which we do not anticipate occurring before March 15, 2010. We are pursuing negotiations with our lender to extend this due date while we continue efforts to increase our capital ratios. Although there can be no assurances, we believe that if we are successful in increasing our capital ratios and do obtain regulatory approval for the modification of the loan agreement, we will also be able to obtain our lender’s consent to extend this due date. Liquidity needs at our bank level could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Traditionally, the primary sources of funds of our bank subsidiary have been customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters, which could be exacerbated by potential climate change, and international instability. From March 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, we have $383.7 million of time deposits that mature and will reprice at current market rates including $112.0 million in brokered deposits that will not be renewed. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources typically include proceeds from FHLB advances, sales of investment securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. However, the FHLB has informed us that, due to our financial condition, we are not permitted to receive any more advances under our line of credit with them. In addition, several of these other sources have become restricted as a result of the issuance of our final regulatory examination report and the terms of the executed consent order with the OCC on April 27, 2009. There also can be no assurance that our available sources of funding will be sufficient to meet our future liquidity demands. 32 Because we are less than “well-capitalized” under applicable regulatory standards, we are no longer be able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits and have been forced to find other sources of liquidity, limit our growth and/or sell assets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. As of December 31, 2009, we had brokered deposits of $158.0 million, of which $112.0 million are scheduled to mature prior to December 31, 2010. Because of the limitations on brokered deposits imposed by the consent order due to our significantly under-capitalized status, we must find other sources of liquidity to replace these deposits as they mature. In addition, we may be compelled to limit our growth, raise additional capital, and/or sell assets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of negative publicity, we may face damage to our reputation and business, including an increase in deposit outflows. Negative publicity that has been experienced due to our weak earnings performance in 2008 and 2009, coupled with the substantial drop in our stock price over the past several years, has resulted in moderate deposit outflows. We believe that approximately $209.4 million, or 32.6% of our deposits, including $158.0 million in brokered CDs, are above FDIC insurance limits as of December 31, 2009, and these deposits are particularly susceptible to withdrawal based on negative publicity about our current financial condition. Although the increase in the FDIC insurance limit of $250,000 per depositor from $100,000 per depositor is in place through December 31, 2013, we cannot predict whether the limit will be maintained or reduced when it expires. Future negative news could raise withdrawal levels beyond the capacity of our currently available liquidity, which would result in a takeover of the bank by the FDIC. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in avoiding damage to our business from a decline in our reputation. Our decision not to declare a dividend on our noncumulative preferred stock for all of 2009 and our deferral of the interest payments on our trust preferred securities beginning with the second quarter of 2009 will likely restrict our access to the debt capital markets until such time as we are current on our interest payments, which will further limit our sources of liquidity. In light of the current period of volatility in the financial markets and our net losses for 2008 and 2009, our board of directors has not declared a dividend to our preferred shareholders since the fourth quarter of 2008. Pursuant to the written agreement with the FRB executed on June 15, 2009, we must seek the prior written approval of the FRB before declaring or paying any dividends or interest. We do not expect to resume payment of dividends to our preferred shareholders in the near term. We also intend to continue deferring future quarterly interest payments on our trust preferred securities as allowed by the terms of the underlying documents for similar reasons. As a result of these decisions, we anticipate that may not be able to generate any interest in purchasing our debt instruments from the debt capital markets until such time as we are current on our interest payments, which will limit another source of our liquidity. Negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the capital markets in 2008 and 2009 and uncertain economic expectations for 2010 have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. These circumstances have exerted significant downward pressure on prices of equity securities and virtually all other asset classes, and have resulted in substantially increased market volatility, severely constrained credit and capital markets, particularly for financial institutions, and an overall loss of investor confidence. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could adversely impact our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. 33 Continuation of the economic downturn could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets. The current economic downturn has negatively affected the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing local or national economic conditions remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. So far in 2010, there has been a continuation of the economic downturn, an extension of which would likely result in the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and a reduction in our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 88.9% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2009. If the economic downturn continues, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely affected by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. We face strong competition for customers in our market areas, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause higher deposit runoff due to restrictions on interest rates we may offer. The banking business is highly competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further. We experience competition in our markets from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We compete with these types of institutions in attracting deposits and in making loans. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as BB&T, Bank of America, and Wachovia, with substantially greater access to capital and other resources. These institutions offer larger lending limits and some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. We also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. Our relatively smaller size can be a competitive disadvantage due to the lack of multi-state geographic diversification and the inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our markets and may need to pay higher interest rates, as we have done in some marketing promotions in the past to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In pricing our deposits, we must comply with federal restrictions on the interest rates that we offer to our depositors contained in the consent order that we entered into with the OCC on April 27, 2009. Under these restrictions, we may pay up to 75 basis points more than the average rate for each deposit type in our markets. These restrictions are potentially significant to us due to our historical practice of paying above average rates on deposits, particularly certificates of deposit. We do not know the impact that using these rates will have on our bank. However, we have historically paid above-average rates locally and, as a result, the restrictions on our interest rates could cause a decrease in both new and existing deposits, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, we may need to find alternative funding sources to fund the growth in our loan portfolio. In 2008, deposit growth was not sufficient to fund our loan growth and we used proceeds from FHLB advances, out-of-market time deposits and principal and interest payments on available-for-sale securities to make up the difference. However, during 2009, our borrowing ability became more limited since our bank entered into the consent order and was reclassified as less than “well-capitalized” by the OCC. Changes in interest rates and our ability to successfully manage interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We believe that we are liability sensitive over a one-year time frame, which means that our net interest income will generally rise in falling interest rate environments and decline in rising interest rate environments. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. We may also be adversely affected if market interest rates on deposits and borrowings decrease slower than the interest income we earn on loans and investments. Many factors can cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Short-term interest rates have been at an all-time low for a prolonged period, while retail time deposit rates remained stubbornly high for most of 2008. Although retail time deposit rates began to decline in 2009, this situation has severely squeezed our net interest margin for 2008 and 2009. If this situation persists, it could have a significant adverse affect on our future profitability. 34 We need to raise additional capital that may not be available to us-. Regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As described above, we have an immediate need to raise capital to increase our capital ratios to the minimums set forth in the consent order with the OCC. In addition, even if we succeed in raising this capital, we may need to raise additional capital in the future due to additional losses or regulatory mandates. The ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital may not be raised on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to increase our capital ratios could be materially impaired and we could face additional regulatory challenges. In addition, if we issue additional equity capital, it may be at a lower price and in all cases, our existing shareholders' interest would be diluted. The FDIC deposit insurance assessments that we are required to pay have materially increased, which has had an adverse effect on our earnings. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, we expensed $529,000 and $3,365,000, respectively, in deposit insurance assessments. Due to the recent failure of several unaffiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions, and the FDIC’s new liquidity guarantee program, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks has increased. In addition to the increases to deposit insurance assessments approved by the FDIC, the Bank’s risk category has also changed as a result of the 2008 regulatory examination and the change in the Bank’s capital position during 2009. In addition, the FDIC has altered the deposit insurance premium assessment system, shifting a greater share of any increase in such assessments onto institutions with higher risk profiles, including banks with heavy reliance on brokered deposits, such as our Bank, which has further increased our assessment rate. These changes increased the Bank’s annualized premium assessments for the three months ended December 31, 2009 to 49.45 bps. The FDIC also had imposed a one-time assessment based on the Bank’s assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, totaling $399,000 paid on September 30, 2009. As a result, our deposit insurance costs were substantially higher in 2009 than in previous periods, which has adversely affected our profitability. We may not be able to reduce the outstanding balance on our holding company’s outstanding line of credit with a correspondent bank. We have drawn approximately $9.6 million on a revolving line of credit with a correspondent bank in the amount of $15 million. We pledged all of the stock of our bank subsidiary as collateral for the line of credit, which contains various debt covenants. On January 7, 2010, we announced that we had reached an agreement to modify our holding company’s loan agreement with its lender. The modifications to the loan agreement cure existing covenant violations, subject to regulatory approval. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval of this agreement. In addition, we have agreed, subject to regulatory approval, to pay $3.5 million no later than March 15, 2010 to our lender, which would fully satisfy our obligations under the line of credit. However, we believe that we must increase our capital ratios in order to obtain regulatory approval for this agreement which we do not anticipate occurring before March 15, 2010. We are pursuing negotiations with our lender to extend this due date while we continue efforts to increase our capital ratios. Although there can be no assurances, we believe that if we are successful in increasing our capital ratios and do obtain regulatory approval for the modification of the loan agreement, we will also be able to obtain our lender's consent to extend this due date. Our core customer base of small- to medium-sized businesses may have fewer financial resources to weather the downturn in the economy. We target the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If harsh economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. In response to deteriorating economic conditions, beginning in September 2008, the Federal Reserve, together with the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC, have taken a variety of unprecedented actions to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. financial system. Congress and the U.S. Treasury have taken additional actions in an effort to aid in this objective. Many financial institutions, in an attempt to repair the damage to their balance sheets from these economic events, have sought, and continue to seek, additional capital or have considered merging with other financial institutions to create a stronger combined capital base. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” We have only recently adopted our new business plan and may not be able to implement it effectively. Our future performance will depend on our ability to implement our new business plan successfully. This implementation will involve a variety of complex tasks, including reducing our level of nonperforming assets (“NPAs”) by continuing to aggressively work problem credits, exploring a bulk sale of loans or OREO, and possibly requiring significant write-downs to facilitate disposition of nonperforming assets. We also plan to continue to increase core deposits, reduce our dependency on wholesale funding (brokered CD’s and FHLB borrowings) and increase low-cost deposit accounts (DDA’s, NOW, etc.). These actions should help expand our net interest margin and future earnings without requiring additional capital. Any failure or delay in executing these initiatives, whether due to regulatory delays or for other reasons, some of which may be beyond our control, is likely to impede, and could ultimately preclude, our successful implementation of our business plan and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 35 Our historical results of operations may not be indicative of our future operating results. We have historically grown at a rapid rate, but in the current economic climate, we do not plan to grow our business as we have in the past, and we have decided to contract our business in the near term by selling some of our assets as part of our strategic plan to increase our capital ratios. Consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operating results. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence as we shrink our balance sheet. As we implement our plans to deleverage our balance sheet by reducing our assets, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. We may not experience a decrease in these costs in proportion to or as quickly as the decrease in our assets. Significant risks accompany our historical expansion. We have historically experienced significant growth by opening new branches or loan production offices and through the acquisition of Carolina National Bank in 2008. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on our ability to monitor operations and control costs, maintain effective quality controls, expand our internal management and technical and accounting systems and otherwise successfully integrate new branches and acquired businesses. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition, and operating results will be negatively impacted. Risks associated with our recent acquisition activity include the following: • inaccuracies in estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to our recently acquired institution or its assets; • our lack of experience in markets into which we have entered; • difficulties and expense in integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; and • loss of key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key individuals, and the unexpected loss of one or more of these key individuals could adversely affect our prospects. On August 24, 2009, we hired J. Barry Mason as our new president and chief executive officer. If we lose Mr. Mason’s services, he would be difficult to replace and our business development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success is dependent on the personal contacts and local experience of Mr. Mason and other key management personnel in each of our market areas. Our success also depends in part on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as our ability to retain current key executive management personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with several of our key management personnel. However, as a result of our previously disclosed regulatory enforcement action, certain payments (including, but not limited to, payments upon a change in control) to our named executive officers are prohibited. These restrictions will remain in effect until we are no longer subject to this regulatory enforcement action. Therefore, the existence of these agreements does not necessarily mean that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of the services of several of these key personnel could adversely affect our business plan and future prospects to the extent we are unable to replace such personnel. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. 36 We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the OCC, the FDIC, and the FRB. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of branches. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to be classified as "well-capitalized" and "well managed" for regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and the cost of our FDIC insurance premiums, our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, and our ability to make acquisitions. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the effects of these changes on our business and profitability cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and expand our business through opening new branch offices. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public, and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations, and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Moreover, as a regulated entity, we can be requested by regulators to implement changes to our operations. In the past, we have addressed areas of regulatory concern through the adoption of board resolutions and improved policies and procedures. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. There is limited public trading of our common stock. While our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Lightly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in active public markets. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In addition, we must meet certain minimum listing standards for our common stock to continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, including a $1.00 per share minimum trading price. On December 29, 2009, we received a letter from NASDAQ that stated that our common stock closed below the required minimum $1.00 per share bid price for the previous 30 consecutive business days. Therefore, we have a period of 180 calendar days, until June 28, 2010, to regain compliance with this listing standard which will occur, if at any time before June 28, 2010, the bid price of our common stock closes with a bid price of $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. We cannot predict whether we will be able to continue to meet, or choose to comply with, these minimum listing standards. If we delist from NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock will likely decrease. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. 37 Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector of the economy, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our shareholders to resell our common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business. We may issue additional shares of common stock or equity derivative securities that will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing shareholders and will dilute the book value per share of our common stock and may adversely affect the terms on which we may obtain additional capital. Our authorized capital includes 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had 7,792,321 shares of common stock outstanding and had reserved for issuance 1,673,669 shares underlying options and warrants that are or may become exercisable at an average price of $2.61 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had the ability to issue 317,419 shares of common stock pursuant to options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future under our existing equity compensation plans. Subject to applicable NASDAQ rules, our board generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of common stock for any corporate purpose, including issuance of equity-based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans. We may seek to raise additional equity capital to support our business operations. This issuance of additional shares of common stock and equity derivative securities will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and will dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Future shares we may issue will increase the total number of outstanding shares and dilute the percentage ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Our shareholders do not have preemptive rights and may experience dilution once we issue more common stock or if securities exercisable for or convertible into common stock are exercised. Under our Articles of Incorporation, holders of our common stock will not have any preemptive rights to purchase additional shares of our common stock in any future offerings. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not be able to maintain their current percentage equity interest if we issue more common stock and other securities exercisable or exchangeable for, or convertible into, our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved staff comments with the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 38 Item 