Risk Factors” for further discussion. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of subscription based consumer protection services in the United States and Canada. Our services help consumers understand and monitor their credit profiles and other personal information and protect themselves against identity theft or fraud. We also provide subscription based insurance and membership services. We have three reportable operating segments with continuing operations through the year ended December 31, 2013. Our Consumer Products and Services segment includes our identity theft protection and credit information management, data breach response, and insurance and membership products and services. Consumer Products and Services accounted for approximately 99% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2013. Our Bail Bonds Industry Solutions segment includes the software management solutions for the bail bond industry provided by our subsidiary Captira Analytical. Our Market Intelligence segment includes our market intelligence platform provided by our subsidiary Intersections Business Intelligence Services under the Zumetrics® brand. Prior to the second quarter of 2013, our Market Intelligence services were included in our Online Brand Protection segment along with our Net Enforcers subsidiary. In the three months ended June 30, 2013, we ceased operations at Net Enforcers. On March 10, 2014, we made the determination to cease ongoing operations at our subsidiary, Intersections Business Intelligence Services (D/B/A Zumetrics®). These operations are expected to wind down and cease during the three months ending June 30, 2014. We plan to classify Zumetrics® as a discontinued operation at the time it meets the requirements under U.S. GAAP and thereafter will no longer have a Market Intelligence segment. Our consumer products and services historically have been offered primarily through relationships with clients. Most of our current subscribers for our products and services were acquired through our financial institution clients. We also offer our products and services through clients in other industries, including Internet service providers, retailers and e-commerce companies. In Canada, our products and services are offered through a marketing and distribution relationship with a Canadian company to the customers of financial institution and non-financial institution clients. In recent years, we have added a greater share of new subscribers by marketing directly to consumers through our IDENTITY GUARD® brand and other brands. We conduct our consumer direct marketing primarily through online affiliates, search engine marketing and broadcast media. We also may market through other channels, including direct mail, print marketing, telemarketing and email. We also market our IDENTITY GUARD® products in conjunction with relationships outside the financial services industry. Through our subsidiary, i4c Innovations, we plan in 2014 to launch VOYCETM, a new platform and service for pet owners. VOYCETM is wearable technology for pets that contains patented technology designed to capture key vital signs and other wellness indicators. Subscribers to this platform will have access to the results, as well as expert content from leading pet experts, to allow them to make informed decisions when it comes to their pets’ health and well-being and share key wellness information with their veterinarians. We believe VOYCETM uniquely provides a combination of health data monitoring for pets and customized information for pet owners. To date, start up, research and development expenses for i4c and VOYCETM have been included in our Consumer Products and Services segment. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1999. Through our predecessor companies, we have been offering consumer protection services since 1996. Intersections Insurance Services, through its predecessor companies, has been offering consumer products and services since 1982. Our principal executive offices are located at 3901 Stonecroft Boulevard, Chantilly, Virginia 20151 and our telephone number is (703) 488-6100. Our web site address is www.intersections.com. We make available on this web site at www.intersections.com, under “Investors and Media,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by our directors and executive officers and various other SEC filings, including amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports to the SEC. We also make available on our web site our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and Statement of Policy with Respect to Related Person Transactions, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Management Committee. This information is also available by written request to Investor Relations at 4 Table of Contents our executive office address listed above. The information on our web site, or on the site of our third-party service provider, is not incorporated by reference into this report. Our web site address is included here only as an inactive technical reference. Consumer Products and Services Our Services and Subscribers Our identity theft protection and credit information management products and services provide multiple benefits to consumers, including access to their credit reports, credit monitoring, educational scores, credit education, reports and monitoring of additional information, identity theft recovery services, identity theft cost reimbursement insurance, and software and other technology tools and services. An individual consumer subscription may include access to some or all of these benefits. Our membership and insurance products and services are offered by our subsidiary, Intersections Insurance Services, and include accidental death and disability and property and casualty insurance and access or purchasing programs for healthcare, home, auto, financial and other services and information. We also offer breach response services to organizations responding to compromises of sensitive personal information. We help these clients notify the affected individuals and we provide the affected individuals with identity theft recovery and identity theft protection monitoring services. Our products and services are offered to consumers by us or our clients principally on a monthly subscription basis. Subscription fees are generally billed directly to the subscriber’s credit card, debit card, mortgage bill or demand deposit account by our clients, but may be billed by us in our consumer direct business and in some other circumstances. The prices to subscribers of various configurations of our products and services range generally from $4.99 to $25.00 per month. As a means of allowing customers to become familiar with our services, our subscriptions typically are offered with trial, delayed billing or guaranteed refund periods. A substantial number of subscriptions in our products and services are canceled each year. Because there is an investment cost to acquire a new subscriber and produce initial fulfillment materials, subscribers typically must be retained for a number of months in order to cover these costs. Not all subscribers are retained for a sufficient period of time to achieve positive cash flow returns on these investment costs. The substantial majority of our subscribers historically have been obtained through relationships with financial institutions in the United States and Canada. In most of these relationships, we provided customized products, services, consumer experiences, and billing, delivery and other policy implementation to meet the requirements of our financial institution clients. We have invested significant time and money over the years in meeting these requirements. We also have made significant investments in the development of advanced product features, and worked to have our clients adopt these products. In recent years, a greater proportion of our subscribers have been obtained through consumer direct marketing under our IDENTITY GUARD® brand, where we have greater control over the product specifications. We believe that the products and services sold under our IDENTITY GUARD® brand typically represent some of the most feature rich products offered in our industry, at higher than industry average price points. We also market IDENTITY GUARD® products at lower price points, which we believe provide more extensive features than comparably priced offerings of our competitors. Our Marketing Our services are or have been marketed to potential subscribers and non-subscriber customers through a variety of marketing channels, including direct mail, outbound telemarketing, inbound telemarketing, inbound customer service and account activation calls, email, mass media and the Internet. Some of our marketing arrangements with our clients have called for us to fund marketing activity, and others have called for our clients to fund the marketing. The mix between our company-funded and client-funded marketing programs varies from year to year based upon our and our clients’ strategies, and may drive considerable period to period changes in our operating performance and metrics. Under our financial institution client arrangements, however, most marketing has been managed and conducted by our financial institution clients, even though in some cases we may have funded the marketing. 5 Table of Contents We historically have depended upon a few large financial institutions in the United States for a significant portion of our new subscriber additions and our revenue. In 2011 and 2012, approximately 70% of both our new subscribers and our Consumer Products and Services segment revenue were derived from agreements with U.S. financial institutions. In 2013, approximately 28% of our new subscribers and approximately 65% of our Consumer Products and Services segment revenue were derived from agreements with U.S. financial institutions. Revenue from subscribers obtained through our largest client, Bank of America, as a percentage of Consumer Products and Services segment revenue, constituted approximately 52% in 2011, 47% in 2012 and 43% in 2013. Bank of America and our other major financial institution clients have suspended or terminated their marketing of our products, and most other marketing through financial institutions has been reduced, suspended or terminated. We believe this is due to a number of factors, including regulatory scrutiny of the sales, marketing and administration of add-on products by financial institutions and changes in the financial institutions’ strategies. As a result, our new subscriber additions were 48% lower in 2013 as compared to 2012 despite growth in new subscriber additions from consumer direct and non-financial institution clients. We have increased spending on consumer direct marketing in recent years, resulting in growth in revenue and new subscribers primarily for our IDENTITY GUARD® and other consumer direct brands. Revenue for our consumer direct business has grown at a compound annual growth rate in excess of 21% over the four years ending December 31, 2013, from $24.0 million in 2010 to over $42.0 million in 2013. We conduct our consumer direct marketing primarily through online affiliates, search engine marketing, and print and broadcast media. We also may market through other channels, including direct mail, outbound telemarketing, inbound telemarketing and email. We also market our IDENTITY GUARD® products in conjunction with relationships outside the financial services industry. In some cases, we market directly to the consumer using brands we own other than IDENTITY GUARD®. We anticipate continuing to devote an increasing proportion of our new product development, new business development and marketing resources to our consumer direct business, and specifically to the IDENTITY GUARD® brand, in an effort to sustain and increase the revenue growth rate for this unit. We also anticipate continuing to develop non-financial institution marketing and distribution relationships for our IDENTITY GUARD® brand and other brands. Our Clients Our client arrangements are distinguished from one another primarily by the allocation between us and the client of the economic risk and reward of the marketing campaigns. The general characteristics of each arrangement are described below, although the arrangements with particular clients may contain unique characteristics: • Direct marketing arrangements: Under direct marketing arrangements, we bear most of the new subscriber marketing costs and pay our client a commission for revenue derived from subscribers. These commissions could be payable upfront in a lump sum on a per newly enrolled subscriber basis, periodically over the life of a subscriber, or through a combination of both. These arrangements generally result in negative cash flow over the first several months after a program is launched due to the upfront nature of the marketing investments. In some arrangements, we pay the client a service fee for access to the client’s customers or billing of the subscribers by the client, and we may reimburse the client for certain of its out-of-pocket marketing costs incurred in obtaining the subscriber. Even in a direct marketing arrangement, some marketing channels may entail limited or no marketing expenses. In those cases, we generally pay higher commissions to our clients compared to channels where we incur more substantial marketing expenses. In addition to these direct marketing arrangements with clients, the financial results we report under direct marketing includes our consumer direct marketing, which is independent of these client arrangements. • Indirect marketing arrangements: Under indirect marketing arrangements, our client bears the marketing expense and pays us a service fee or percentage of the revenue. Indirect marketing arrangements also include some clients who pay us fees for operational services including but not limited to fulfillment events, information technology development hours or customer service activities. Because the subscriber acquisition cost is borne by our client under these arrangements, our revenue per subscriber 6 Table of Contents is typically lower than under direct marketing arrangements. Indirect marketing arrangements generally provide positive cash flow earlier than direct arrangements. The majority of our non-subscriber customers are acquired under indirect marketing relationships that primarily generate little or no revenue per customer for us. The classification of a client relationship as direct or indirect is based on whether we or the client pay the marketing expenses. Our accounting policies for revenue recognition, however, are not based on the classification of a client arrangement as direct or indirect. We look to the specific client arrangement to determine the appropriate revenue recognition policy, as discussed in detail in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. In the past, we have purchased from clients certain customer portfolios, including the rights to future cash flows. We typically classify the post-purchase customer portfolio as a direct marketing arrangement regardless of how it may have been characterized prior to purchase because we receive all future revenues and bear all associated risks and expenses for these customers following the purchase transaction. Our typical contracts for direct marketing arrangements, and some indirect marketing arrangements, provide that after termination of the contract we may continue to provide our services to existing subscribers, for periods ranging from two years to indefinite, substantially under the applicable terms in effect at the time of termination. Under certain of our agreements, however, including most indirect marketing arrangements, the clients may require us at any time to cease providing services under existing subscriptions. Clients under most contracts may also require us to cease providing services to their customers under existing subscriptions if the contract is terminated for material breach by us or based on various events such as certain legal or regulatory changes, a party’s bankruptcy or insolvency, or other events. Even in contracts under which we have a right to continue to provide our services to existing subscribers after termination, we often are substantially dependent on those clients to cooperate in allowing continued servicing, including continued billing by those clients. We expect ongoing regulatory review and scrutiny of sales of add-on and other consumer financial products and services, including identity theft protection products, to continue to be a focus of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other regulators. As a result, marketing of our products by our major financial institution clients, and most marketing by our other financial institution clients, has been reduced, suspended or terminated, and we do not know whether the marketing of our products by financial institutions will be resumed, or whether, if resumed, they will return to prior levels. Some financial institution clients also have suspended billing of or cancelled certain subscribers, and may suspend billing of or cancel other subscribers. We believe that these cancellations and suspensions are principally a result of regulatory actions or changes in the regulatory environment, as well as changes in the marketing and customer relationship strategies of our financial institution clients. Our consumer direct business involves clients that typically require a lesser degree of customization in branding, product specifications, billing and other operational processes and policies than our historical financial institution clients. Our consumer direct business model also involves business relationships with new categories of business partners, such as Internet service providers, search engine operators, affiliate networks, and marketing agencies, which were not a part of our historical financial institution-centered business model. Operations Our operations platform for our consumer products and services, which consists principally of customer service, fulfillment, information processing and technology, is designed to serve the needs of both our clients and our subscribers. Our services are tailored to meet both our subscribers’ needs for protection and our clients’ requirements for branding and presentation, service levels, accuracy and security. Many of our clients routinely test the security of our operations and suggest areas for improvement. We believe our ongoing investment in operations offer a significant competitive advantage for us in our ability to produce high quality services in both online and offline environments while delivering high levels of both customer and client service and data security. We continue to invest in our consumer products and services operations in order to support a broader array of product offerings, launch new products and partners more quickly, and adapt to changes in the overall economy, such as the growth in mobile commerce. 7 Table of Contents Customer Service We have designed our customer service for our consumer products and services to achieve high customer satisfaction by responding quickly to subscriber requests with value-added responses and solutions, while following client requirements for areas such as sales approaches, retention strategies and scripting. In addition, we work to gain customer satisfaction through our policy of selective recruiting, hiring, training, retaining and management of customer service representatives who are focused exclusively on identity theft protection and credit education services. Prior to working with subscribers, service representatives are required to complete an in-depth training program that focuses on the fundamentals of the credit industry, regulation, credit reporting and our products and services. This classroom training is then followed by a closely monitored on-the-job training program with assigned mentors and call simulations. Service representatives then continue to be monitored and receive feedback based on the standards of our quality assurance program. In addition to call quality, we are bound by client-driven metrics specified by our client agreements. We maintain in-house customer care centers in Virginia, Illinois and New Mexico. Additionally, we may utilize the services of outsourced vendors with capacity for additional customer service. Fulfillment Our in-house mail generation and delivery capabilities for our consumer products and services are designed to provide full color customizable and branded material for our clients with prompt, high quality, secure and cost-effective delivery of subscribers’ personal data. Proprietary software creates consumer friendly presentation, tracks delivery at the page and image level and stores the consolidated credit data for member servicing. For the purpose of ensuring accuracy and security of subscribers’ personal data, credit reports are electronically inspected upon receipt and again before final delivery. Operational auditing of fulfillment events is also conducted regularly. We also make our services available to most subscribers via the Internet. Information Technology We continue to make significant investments in technology to enable continued growth in our subscriber base. This also allows us to provide flexible solutions for our subscribers and clients with a secure and reliable platform. Our customer resource management platform, which is the basis for our service delivery, integrates certain industry and application specific software. Since inception, we have contracted a portion of our credit data processing to Digital Matrix Systems, Inc. A portion of our web development is contracted to other third parties. We employ a range of information technology solutions, physical controls, procedures and processes to safeguard sensitive data, and regularly evaluate those solutions against the latest available technology, industry standards and environmental conditions. We use respected third parties to review and test our security controls, we continue to be audited by our clients with positive feedback, and we have obtained PCI level 1 and Experian’s EI3PA compliance as tested by an independent provider. We also adopted the Financial Services Roundtable’s FISAP “Shared assessment program” and contracted with a security firm to audit us against those controls. We have undertaken several projects for the purpose of ensuring that our infrastructure expands with client and subscriber needs. Our primary production systems are hosted at a secure, high-availability third party tier 1 data center in the Northern Virginia area. Our back office and online environments are designed with high volume processing in mind and are constructed to optimize performance, reliability, and scalability. Data and Analytics Providers Under our agreements with Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, we purchase data for use in providing our services to consumers. The Experian and TransUnion contracts may be terminated by them on 30 days and 60 days’ notice, respectively. The contract with Equifax expires on January 1, 2015. Each of these credit reporting agencies is a competitor of ours in providing credit information and identity theft protection services to consumers. 8 Table of Contents We have entered into contracts with several additional providers of data and analytics for use in our identity theft and fraud protection services, including new data sources, advanced tools and analytical capabilities, more timely notification of activities and more useable content. In certain contractual arrangements, we pay non-refundable license fees in exchange for the limited exclusive rights to use the data. We routinely review the effectiveness and cost of these exclusivity agreements in conjunction with our projected data usage and business forecasts. Our other consumer products and services are delivered by third party providers, including insurance companies, discount service providers and software distributors. Competition The markets for our Consumer Products and Services segment are highly competitive. A number of divisions or subsidiaries of large, well-capitalized firms with strong brand names operate in the industry. We compete with these firms to provide our services to our clients’ customers and our direct subscribers. We compete for these clients on the basis of product features, technological capabilities, reputation in the market, ability to offer client-branded solutions, flexible service configurations, high quality standards and price. We believe that our principal competitors for our Consumer Products and Services segment include the following companies and their subsidiaries or affiliates: Equifax; Experian; TransUnion; Affinion; Fair Isaac; and Lifelock. Other competitors that we believe to be smaller also are in the market, and others may enter the market. We also purchase credit data from our competitors Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. One or more of them may decline to provide us all of the data or features that they may provide to consumers, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for those consumers. Market Intelligence Our Services Through our subsidiary, Intersections Business Intelligence Services (D/B/A Zumetrics®), we provide a cloud-based market intelligence platform that automatically collects and analyzes product-level e-commerce data for retailers and brand owners. Our platform provides our clients visibility into how their channel presence stacks up against the competition and alerts them of strategic shifts in the marketplace. Our services utilize proprietary technology and third party data sources to search e-commerce retail sites for instances of specific brands and/or products, categorize each instance and report e-commerce market findings back to our clients. Our services are typically priced as monthly subscriptions for a defined set of monitoring services. Prices for our services vary based upon the specific configuration of services purchased by each client and range from several hundred dollars per month to thousands of dollars per month. Prior to the second quarter of 2013, our Market Intelligence services were included in our Online Brand Protection segment along with our Net Enforcers subsidiary. We have since discontinued support for certain legacy services and ceased all business operations at Net Enforcers. Our Marketing We primarily use an internal sales force to market the services to brand owners or retailers. Clients purchase services based upon the need to monitor e-commerce promotions associated with their brand and products, our positive reputation in the marketplace, our combination of technology and operational solutions to Internet monitoring challenges, and the cost, quality and scope of our service offerings. Our Clients Our clients are typically brand owners or retailers. Generally, client contracts have terms of one year with automatic annual renewals. This segment’s operating results do not significantly impact our consolidated financial results. 9 Table of Contents Operations, Information Technology & Customer Service Our platform provides our clients visibility into how their channel presence stacks up against the competition and alerts them of strategic shifts in the marketplace. Our services utilize proprietary technology and third party data sources to search e-commerce retail sites for instances of specific brands and/or products, categorize each instance and report e-commerce market findings back to our clients. This segment’s primary offices are in Virginia. Data and Analysis Providers This segment primarily utilizes publicly available information in its service offerings, but also utilizes the services of data aggregators in some instances. Competition This segment has a number of competitors that offer brand protection services similar in whole or part its offerings. These competitors include Channel IQ, Revionics, and Upstream Commerce. In addition, this segment, at times, competes for business against internal client resources. Bail Bonds Industry Solutions Our Services Through our subsidiary, Captira Analytical, we provide automated service solutions for the bail bonds industry. These services include data management, bookkeeping, accounting, reporting, and decision making tools which allow bail bondsmen, general agents and sureties to run their offices more efficiently, to exercise greater operational and financial control over their businesses, and to make better underwriting decisions. We believe these services are the only fully integrated suite of bail bonds management applications of comparable scope available in the marketplace today. These services are sold to retail bail bondsman on a “per seat” license basis plus additional transactional charges for various optional services. Additionally, this segment has developed a suite of services for bail bonds insurance companies, general agents and sureties which are sold on either a transactional or recurring revenue basis. Our Marketing This segment primarily markets its services through an internal sales force both directly to bail bondsmen and indirectly via bail bonds industry intermediaries such as trade associations, general agents, sureties and insurance companies. It has secured exclusive endorsements from the largest trade association in the bail bonds industry as well as several large general agents and sureties. The business is actively working with these industry intermediaries to market their services to affiliated retail bail bondsmen. Our Clients This segment’s clients are bail bonds industry participants including insurance companies, sureties, general agents and retail bail bondsmen. This segment’s operating results do not significantly impact our consolidated financial results. Operations, Information Technology & Customer Service This segment has custom developed its technology and operational processes based upon an in depth understanding of the operational activities of the bail bonds industry. The primary offices are located in New York and it outsources hosting and management of its operational technology platforms to a domestic third party data center provider located in Northern Virginia. Services are generally delivered to clients on a remote basis over the Internet via secure connections. Onsite support is sometimes provided to clients, particularly during initial data migration and account setup. This segment continues to invest in its operational and technology platforms to improve functionality, scalability and the security of its offerings. 10 Table of Contents Data and Analysis Providers Among the functionality offered by this segment to its customers is the ability to retrieve reports and other data for use in evaluating and managing bail bonds and bail bond applications. To provide these reports, the business utilizes a combination of public and proprietary information and technology. Competition We believe that this segment is the only provider of an integrated suite of bail bonds industry office automation and decisioning tools of comparable scope. This segment competes in part with providers of a limited suite of bail bonds industry tools such as Creative Software Solutions, Bailbooks and others. Government Regulation Government laws and regulations that may affect our business include, but are not limited to, the following: Our Consumer Products and Services Our consumer products and services business is subject to the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act and similar state laws governing credit information. Our business also is subject to state and federal privacy laws, including the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act and state laws governing the sharing or use of personal information. Our insurance products and services are subject to state insurance laws, and various other state laws also may apply to our consumer products and services. Marketing and ongoing servicing of our consumer products and services are subject to various federal and state laws, depending on the circumstances, including the federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, CAN-SPAM Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, U.S. Card Act, and both federal and state laws prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive practices or requiring disclosure of information about various products and services. These laws may apply to us or our clients. In addition, our credit reporting agency suppliers are subject to the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, Gramm Leach Bliley Act, and other laws and regulations regarding credit information and privacy, and our other key suppliers also may be subject to those and other laws and regulations. In some cases our suppliers require us by contract to comply with these laws and regulations, which may directly or indirectly affect our ability to provide their data or technology as part of our products and services. Our consumer business in Canada is subject to laws and regulations that are similar to but not the same as laws and regulations in the United States. Laws and regulations that may apply to our business in Canada include the federal Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act and federal and provincial laws and regulations regarding credit information and marketing and other consumer protection laws and regulations. Our financial institution clients are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern financial institutions and their affiliates, financial products, financial information privacy, financial accounts such as credit cards, debit cards, demand deposit accounts and mortgages, and payment systems and processes. Our financial institution clients are subject to oversight by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal or state regulatory agencies. In part based on the requirements of those regulatory agencies, our financial institution clients are required to exercise oversight of us, and often require us by contract to comply with certain of the laws and regulations that apply directly to them. We and some of our clients also are subject to state laws and regulations that primarily are enforced by individual state attorneys general, state banking agencies and state insurance departments. For example, sales by financial institutions of add-on or ancillary products have been the subject of increasing scrutiny. We believe that the OCC, FDIC and CFPB are continuing to review financial institutions’ policies and practices with respect to add-on or ancillary products, and their management of third party suppliers 11 Table of Contents like us. The CFPB, OCC and FDIC have entered into public consent orders with Capital One Financial Corp., JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Discover Bank and American Express, and their affiliates, regarding the sales of add-on products, including identity theft protection products. Some parts of these consent orders have focused on the sales and marketing of the products, and others have focused on billing practices with respect to certain consumers who were deemed to have received less than the full benefits of the products. Under these consent orders, financial institutions have agreed, among other things, to make restitution of fees collected from their customers, take other remedial actions and cease marketing of the applicable products until their compliance plans are approved by regulators. Although we were named as a product provider, along with other providers, in consent orders entered by the OCC with Capital One and Chase, the consent orders did not make any finding of wrongdoing by us. We expect that the regulators’ reviews of the sales of add-on products by financial institutions will continue, and may result in additional consent orders. We also believe that the CFPB is examining the sales of consumer direct products by our credit bureau suppliers. Certain state attorneys general also have brought enforcement actions against financial institutions regarding the sales of add-on products. We are not a party to those actions except for the single matter described in Item 3 below, “Legal Proceedings.” On July 11, 2012, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the CFPB requesting production of documents and answers to questions regarding the provision of “ancillary products related to credit card or deposit accounts.” We have been cooperating fully in the investigation, and have produced all or substantially all of the information requested by the CFPB. We also more recently received from the CFPB a request for voluntary production of certain additional information and are in the process of providing the requested information. The CFPB has not alleged a violation by us of any law or regulation. Many of the laws in the United States and Canada that apply to us or our clients are the subject of revision and addition, the issuance of rules, regulations, guidance and interpretations by government agencies, and rulings and interpretations by courts and other tribunals. We incur significant costs to operate our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, and to make changes to our business as needed to comply with legal and regulatory changes. We have made and may continue to make changes to our business and operations as a result of changes with respect to these laws or regulations. These changes have increased our costs and reduced our revenue, and we may make further changes that have such effect. Further, scrutiny of the sales, marketing and administration of add-on products by regulators has resulted in the suspension or termination of most marketing of our products by financial institutions, suspension of billing of certain subscribers, and cancellation of certain subscribers. Laws and Regulations Governing Our Other Segments Our Market Intelligence business depends in part on federal and state laws and private policies governing intellectual property ownership and enforcement, access to information made available on the Internet, and competition. Changes in these laws or rules or how they are interpreted or implemented may adversely affect the ability of our Market Intelligence business to provide its services or result in expenses related to legal or regulatory enforcement. Certain of Captira’s services are governed by various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act and similar state laws governing consumer reports, and the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act and other federal and state privacy laws and regulations. Intellectual Property We consider certain of our processes, systems, methodologies, databases, tangible and intangible materials, software and trademarks to be proprietary. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright, trademark and other laws, license agreements and non-disclosure, non-competition and other contractual provisions, and technical measures, to protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights. Certain features and functions of our products and services use intellectual property under license from several third parties, which we at times sub-license to our clients and others. We may depend on certain of those licenses to operate parts of our products. When we market our services in client-branded programs, we rely on licenses from our clients to use their trademarks. 12 Table of Contents Financial Information About Segments and Geographic Areas See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information about our segments and geographic areas. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had 644 employees. Our future performance depends significantly on the continued service of our key personnel. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements. We believe our employee relations are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are material to an understanding of our company. Any of the following risks as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and cause the value of our stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that are currently deemed immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. We are dependent upon our consumer products and services for substantially all of our revenue, and our revenue from those products and services is expected to continue to decrease. Approximately 99% of our revenue in 2013 was derived from our Consumer Products and Services segment. We expect to remain dependent on revenue from our consumer products and services for the foreseeable future. Any significant loss of revenue from our Consumer Products and Services segment could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, marketing of our products by our major financial institution clients, and most marketing by our other financial institution clients, has been reduced, suspended or terminated, and some financial institution clients also have suspended billing of or cancelled certain subscribers, and may suspend billing of or cancel other subscribers. As a result, our revenue and earnings decreased in 2013, and we expect our revenue and earnings to continue to decrease in 2014 as compared to 2013. We must replace the subscribers we lose and, if we fail to do so, our revenue and subscriber base will continue to decline. We lose a substantial number of subscribers each year in the ordinary course of our business. We have lost subscribers in prior years, and may lose subscribers in future years, due to numerous factors, including: • changing subscriber preferences; • subscriber dissatisfaction; • cancellations required by clients, or for regulatory or other reasons; • client turn-over; • competitive price pressures; • general economic conditions; • credit card or other billing vehicle declines; and • credit card or other billing vehicle turnover. 13 Table of Contents We depend upon a small number of large financial institutions in the United States to derive most of our revenue. A continued reduction in revenue derived from these large financial institutions will likely reduce our revenue and earnings in 2014. We depend upon a small number of large financial institutions in the United States to derive a significant portion of our revenue. For example, in 2011 and 2012, approximately 70% of both our new subscribers and our Consumer Products and Services segment revenue were derived from agreements with U.S. financial institutions. In 2013, approximately 28% of our new subscribers and approximately 65% of our Consumer Products and Services segment revenue were derived from agreements with U.S. financial institutions. Most marketing of our products by financial institution clients, however, has been reduced, suspended or terminated, and we do not know whether the marketing of our products by financial institutions will be resumed, or whether, if resumed, they will return to prior levels. Some financial institution clients also have suspended billing of or cancelled certain subscribers, and may suspend billing of or cancel other subscribers. As a result our total number of subscribers has declined, and we expect it to continue to decline. If we fail to replace these subscribers, our total number of subscribers and revenue will continue to decline, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also substantially dependent on these financial institutions to continue to service our subscribers. If those financial institutions do not perform their contractual obligations with respect to the servicing of existing subscribers, or otherwise do not cooperate in our continued servicing of those subscribers, including billing of those subscribers, or, where permitted under our contracts, they terminate our servicing of the subscribers, we could lose significant current sources of revenue, and those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive most of our revenue from subscribers acquired under our contracts with our clients, and we could lose access to prospective subscribers and current subscribers if one or more of our clients were to reduce or cease the marketing of our services, cancel subscribers, terminate their contracts with us, or fail to support the ongoing servicing of the subscribers. Under most of our client agreements, our clients may reduce or cease marketing of our products at their discretion. If one or more of our clients reduces or ceases the marketing of our products, we would lose access to additional subscribers and sources of revenue. Our clients also may terminate their contracts with us. Our typical contracts for direct marketing arrangements, and some indirect marketing arrangements, provide that after termination of the contract we may continue to provide our services to existing subscribers, for periods ranging from two years to indefinite, substantially under the applicable terms in effect at the time of termination. Under certain of our agreements, however, including most indirect marketing arrangements, the clients may require us to cease providing services under existing subscriptions. Clients under most contracts, whether direct or indirect, may also require us to cease providing services to their customers under existing subscriptions if the contract is terminated for material breach by us or based on various events such as certain legal or regulatory changes, a party’s bankruptcy or insolvency, or other events. Further, upon termination or expiration of a client contract, we may enter into a transition agreement or other agreement with the client that modifies the original terms of the agreement. In some cases our ability to continue our services and receive the related revenue may depend upon ongoing cooperation by our clients, including the use of certain billing systems or processes. Our clients or others could take certain actions or make changes after the termination or expiration of our agreements which could materially interfere with or limit our ability to continue to provide our services to those subscribers or receive the related revenue. 14 Table of Contents Our new subscriber additions were 48% lower in 2013 compared to 2012, due to the reduction, suspension or termination of most marketing of our products by our financial institution clients, and some financial institution clients also have suspended billing of certain subscribers, and may suspend billing of or cancel other subscribers. For example: • Bank of America has ceased marketing of our services, and the portions of our agreement with Bank of America under which our identity theft protection services were being marketed to prospective subscribers expired on December 31, 2011. We continue to provide our services to the subscribers we acquired through Bank of America before December 31, 2011, subject to normal attrition. We believe that our agreement with Bank of America provides for us to continue to service those subscribers substantially under the applicable terms currently in effect. Under our agreement, however, Bank of America may require us to cease providing services to the existing subscribers if the agreement is terminated for material breach by us or based on various events such as certain legal or regulatory changes. We do not know whether Bank of America will agree with our interpretation of our agreement, and there can be no guarantee that Bank of America will continue to provide the cooperation necessary to continued servicing of the subscribers, including continued billing of the subscribers. Bank of America has indicated that it has been responding to inquiries from regulatory authorities regarding identity theft protection products, which we believe include our products and products from a different provider. • In October 2013, our servicing of subscribers under our indirect marketing agreement with Chase terminated. As a result, we ceased to service and receive revenue related to approximately 615 thousand subscribers and 216 thousand non-subscriber customers. • In January 2014, Capital One sent us a notice of its decision to terminate its indirect marketing agreement with us, effective no sooner than July 31, 2014. Under the notice, Capital One reserves the right to extend the date of termination of the agreement beyond July 31, 2014, and at a later time to notify us of the cancellation of existing subscriptions, which may occur before, on or after July 31, 2014. Our consumer products and services business is subject to a wide range of U.S. and foreign regulation and scrutiny, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our consumer products and services business is subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, including, among others, laws governing credit information, consumer privacy and marketing and servicing of consumer products and services. Our business in Canada is subject to similar laws. Our financial institution clients are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern financial institutions and their affiliates, financial products, financial information privacy, financial accounts such as credit cards, debit cards, demand deposit accounts and mortgages, and payment systems and processes. Our financial institution clients are subject to oversight by the OCC, FDIC, CFPB and other federal or state regulatory agencies. In part based on the requirements of those regulatory agencies, our financial institution clients are required to exercise oversight of us, and often require us by contract to comply with certain of the laws and regulations that apply directly to them. We and some of our clients also are subject to state laws and regulations that primarily are enforced by individual state attorneys general, state banking agencies and state insurance departments. Many of the laws in the United States and Canada that apply to us or our clients are the subject of revision and addition, the issuance of rules, regulations, guidance and interpretations by government agencies, and rulings and interpretations by courts and other tribunals. We incur significant costs to operate our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, and to make changes to our business as needed to comply with legal and regulatory changes. We have made and may continue to make changes to our business and operations as a result of changes with respect to these laws or regulations. These changes have increased our costs and reduced our revenue, and we may make further changes that have such effect. Further, scrutiny of the sales, marketing and administration of add-on products by regulators has resulted in the suspension or termination of most marketing of our products by financial institutions, suspension of billing of certain subscribers, and cancellation of certain subscribers. 15 Table of Contents The effect of this combination of laws, regulations, reviews and proceedings is difficult to estimate, and any or a combination of them, or changes to them, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We and our financial institution clients are subject to legal actions and proceedings, including consumer class action litigation and government agency investigations and enforcement actions, which could require us to incur substantial expenses, pay damages, fines and penalties, lose subscribers and clients, and change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry and must comply with various foreign, federal, state and local laws, we may be subject to claims and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. These legal actions may include private class action lawsuits, and investigations and enforcement actions by governmental authorities. We cannot predict the outcome of any actions or proceedings, and the cost of responding to investigations or claims and defending against private actions, investigations or government enforcement actions might be material. If we are found liable in any actions or proceedings, or are required to indemnify our clients or others for their expenses or liability, we may have to pay substantial damages, fines and penalties, lose subscribers or clients, suffer harm to our reputation, and be required change the way we conduct our business, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of these investigations, proceedings or actions, or other regulatory oversight, we or our financial institution clients may take remedial actions including the issuing of refunds or cancellations of subscribers, and our clients may seek indemnification or contribution from us relating to those remedial actions. For example, sales by financial institutions of add-on or ancillary products have been the subject of increasing scrutiny by federal and state regulators. We believe that the OCC, FDIC and CFPB are continuing to review our financial institution clients’ policies and practices with respect to add-on or ancillary products, and their management of third party suppliers like us. The CFPB, OCC and FDIC have entered into public consent orders with Capital One, Chase, Discover and American Express regarding the sales of add-on products, including identity theft protection products. Some parts of these consent orders have focused on the sales and marketing of the products, and others have focused on billing practices with respect to certain consumers who were deemed to have received less than the full benefits of the products. Under these consent orders, financial institutions have agreed, among other things, to make restitution of fees collected from their customers, take other remedial actions and cease marketing of the applicable products until their compliance plans are approved by regulators. Although we were named as a product provider, along with other providers, in consent orders entered by the OCC with Capital One and Chase, the consent orders did not make any finding of wrongdoing by us. We expect that the regulators’ reviews of the sales of add-on products by financial institutions will continue, and may result in additional consent orders. We also believe that the CFPB is examining the sales of consumer direct products by our credit bureau suppliers. Certain state attorneys general also have brought enforcement actions against financial institutions regarding the sales of add-on products. We are not a party to those actions except for the single matter described in Item 3 below, “Legal Proceedings.” On July 11, 2012, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the CFPB requesting production of documents and answers to questions regarding the provision of “ancillary products related to credit card or deposit accounts.” We have been cooperating fully in the investigation, and have produced all or substantially all of the information requested by the CFPB. We also more recently received from the CFPB a request for voluntary production of certain additional information and are in the process of providing the requested information. The CFPB has not alleged a violation by us of any law or regulation. The costs of responding to these investigations and requests may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, and any finding that we have violated a law or regulation, filing of an enforcement action against us, or entry by us into a consent order or settlement, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Reserves we establish or charges we incur for private or governmental legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We periodically analyze currently available information about current legal proceedings and make a determination of the probability of loss and provide a range of possible loss when we believe that sufficient and appropriate information is available. We accrue a liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a loss is probable and a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated but no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount in the range, then the minimum of the range is accrued. We do not accrue a liability when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is believed to be probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the likelihood that a liability has been incurred is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and the impact could potentially be material, we disclose the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss. We may determine in the future that we must establish a reserve or incur a charge for all or a portion of our legal proceedings for which we did not previously establish a reserve or take a charge. We also may determine that we are required to increase a reserve if we determine that the reserve we previously established was inadequate, or record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. Such charges or reserves could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. If we lose our ability to purchase data from any of the three major credit reporting agencies, each of which is a competitor of ours, demand for our services could decrease. We rely on the three major credit reporting agencies, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, to provide us with essential data for our consumer identity theft protection and credit management services under short-term agreements. Each of the three major credit reporting agencies is a competitor of ours in providing credit information directly to consumers, and may decide to stop supplying data to us. Any interruption, deterioration or termination of our relationship with one or more of the three credit reporting agencies would be disruptive to our business and could cause us to lose subscribers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. We are substantially dependent on third party suppliers and service providers, and our clients and their service providers, to market and provide our products, and failures by those third parties or our clients could harm our business and prospects. Our consumer products and services are substantially dependent on third party suppliers, including providers of credit and other data, analytics, and software and other technology. Our failure to develop and maintain these third party relationships could harm our ability to provide our products and services. We also rely on various third party service providers, including outsourced telemarketing vendors, customer service providers, network and systems hosts and other providers. In some arrangements we rely on our clients or their service providers, including the marketing of products, billing of subscribers and customer service. Failure of any of our third party suppliers or service providers, or our clients or their service providers, to satisfy our contracts or requirements, or to comply with applicable laws and regulations, could cause us to lose subscribers or clients, expose us to private lawsuits or governmental investigations or proceedings, cause us to be liable for damages and fines, or harm our reputation. Any such event could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A failure of any of the insurance companies that underwrite the insurance products or related benefits provided as part of our consumer products and services, or refusal by those insurance companies to provide the expected insurance, could harm our business. Certain of our consumer products and services include or depend on insurance products, or are dependent on group insurance policies under which the customers for our products and services are the insureds. The current 17 Table of Contents and expected economic climate may cause financial instability among one or more of those insurance companies. Any failure of any of those insurance companies, or refusal by them to provide the expected insurance, could require us to remove the affected insurance from our products and services, cause us to lose customers or clients, or expose us to liability claims by our customers or clients. If we experience system failures or interruptions in our telecommunications or information technology infrastructure, our revenue could decrease and our reputation could be harmed. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our telecommunications and information technology systems against damage or system interruptions from natural disasters, technical failures and other events beyond our control. We receive credit and other data electronically, and this delivery method is susceptible to damage, delay or inaccuracy. A significant portion of our business involves telephonic customer service as well as mailings, both of which depend upon the data generated from our computer systems. Unanticipated problems with our telecommunications and information technology systems may result in a significant system outage or data loss, which could interrupt our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, including the loss of revenue, clients or customers or exposure to liability claims. Our failure to protect private data could cause us to expend capital and resources to protect against future security breaches or other unauthorized access, result in litigation costs, liability and damage to our reputation and business. We collect, distribute and protect nonpublic and sensitive private data in delivering our services. We are subject to the risk that unauthorized users might access that data or human error might cause the wrongful dissemination of that data. If we experience a security breach or other unauthorized access to information, the integrity of our services may be affected. We continue to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or other mishaps and to minimize problems if a data breach were to occur. Moreover, any public perception that we mishandle private information could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients and subscribers, or maintain key supplier relationships, and could subject us to legal claims and liability and damage to our reputation. In addition, unauthorized third parties might alter information in our databases, which would adversely affect both our ability to market our services and the credibility of our information. Our business is dependent on the secure operation of our website and systems as well as the operation of the Internet generally. Our business involves the storage and transmission of users’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. A number of large Internet companies have disclosed security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our financial institution and other clients, or both. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, client, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose clients, customers and/or suppliers. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. A person who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our subscribers’ proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. 18 Table of Contents Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors and clients, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including “denial-of-service” type attacks. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We expect to incur substantial expenses as we enter new businesses, develop new products or increase our consumer direct marketing, which will cause our expenses to increase and our earnings to decline on a quarterly basis. We are committing significant resources to our strategic efforts to develop new products and services and increase our consumer direct marketing. For example, we plan in 2014 to launch VOYCETM, a new platform and service for pet owners, and may launch new identity theft protection, privacy, insurance and other products and services for consumers, and also intend to invest in increased marketing of our services directly to consumers through our IDENTITY GUARD® brand and other brands. As a result of the commitments and investments, as well as declining revenue due to a decrease in marketing by our financial institution clients, and suspension or cancellation of billing or subscribers, we expect our revenue and earnings to continue to decline in 2014. Our continued investment in the consumer direct business or new investment in other new businesses or products may not be successful in generating future revenue or profits on our projected timeframes or at all. We may launch products and services in fields and markets that are new to us, and may be exposed to new risks that could impede the success of our efforts or result in unforeseen liabilities or expenses. Our VOYCE™ product will require the manufacturing and distribution of electronic goods including wireless communications technology, which is not a form of product creation or distribution in which we previously have engaged. As a result, we will be required to learn and comply with laws and regulations that are new to us, and manage risks that are new to us, including manufacturing supply chain management and product distribution. We also are exploring or developing other new products and services, including new privacy and insurance products, which also may involve new risks. If we are unable to manage these new risks, our efforts to develop and launch new products and services may not be successful, or we may incur unforeseen liabilities or expenses, including product liability, regulatory violation, intellectual property infringement or contract claims, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may lose subscribers and customers and significant revenue if our existing products and services become obsolete, or if we fail to introduce new products and services with broad appeal or fail to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our growth depends upon developing and successfully introducing new products and services that generate client and consumer interest, including new data sources, advanced tools and analytical capabilities, more timely notification of activities and more useable content. We have made or may make significant investments in these new products and services, including development costs and prepayment of royalties and fees to third party providers. Although we have a limited history of developing and introducing products and services outside the areas of identity theft protection and consumer credit information, we are currently developing or introducing new products and services in other areas. Our failure to develop, introduce or expand successfully our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 19 Table of Contents We may lose subscribers and significant revenue if our subscribers cease to maintain the accounts through which they are billed for our products and services, or our clients change their billing or credit practices or policies, including access to certain billing systems and processes. Most of our subscribers are billed for our products and services through accounts with our clients, such as credit card, debit card, demand deposit and mortgage accounts. Market factors such as a refinancing or account cancellation could cause a loss of subscribers. Client decisions, such as changes in their credit card billing practices or policies, may result in our inability to bill for our products and services, which also may result in a loss of subscribers. These subscriber losses may have a material adverse impact on our revenue. In addition, subscribers acquired through several of our clients, including Bank of America and certain of our other largest clients, are billed using certain systems and processes managed or supported by our clients. Changes by our clients to those billing systems or processes, or discontinuance of them, may cause us a material loss of revenue and subscribers. Our senior secured credit agreement provides our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions, and it could therefore limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. We may fail to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement as a result of, among other things, changes in our results of operations or general economic changes. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that would otherwise be in our best interests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under our credit agreement could result in a default under the facility, which could cause the lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise their lien on substantially all of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, because our credit agreement bears interest at variable interest rates, increases in interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, resulting in a decline in our net income and cash flow, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may be unable to meet our future capital requirements to grow our business, which could adversely impact our financial condition and growth strategy. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to operate and expand our business. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We depend on key members of our management and other key personnel. We depend on key members of our management. We do not maintain key person life insurance on our senior management. Loss of one or more of these key individuals, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer or other executive officers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled managerial, marketing and other personnel, and a failure to attract and retain those personnel may have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions or investments that are accretive or which improve our financial condition. A component of our strategy going forward includes selectively acquiring assets or businesses or making strategic investments in order to increase cash flow and earnings or diversify or expand our product offerings. This depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition or investment candidates, consummate transactions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to support our growth and expansion, and many other factors beyond our control. We may encounter delays or other problems or incur substantial expenses in connection with seeking acquisitions that could 20 Table of Contents negatively impact our operating results. In connection with any acquisitions or investments, we could issue stock that would dilute our stockholders, incur substantial debt, assume known, contingent and unknown liabilities and/or reduce our cash reserves. Acquisitions may also require material infrequent charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, impairment of goodwill, substantial depreciation and amortization, increased interest expense, deferred compensation charges, and the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations in one or more future periods. We may not realize planned benefits of our acquisitions or investments. In connection with our acquisitions, we may experience unforeseen operating difficulties as we integrate the acquired assets and businesses into our existing operations. These difficulties may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Any acquisition or investments by us involves risks, including: • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired operations; • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired businesses with those of our existing operations; • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • establishing the internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • mitigating contingent or assumed liabilities or unexpected costs. We may not realize planned benefits of our membership agreement or other customer portfolio acquisitions, or be able to complete such acquisitions. We may acquire membership agreements or other customer portfolios from our clients or others. Although we receive certain representations, warranties and covenants from the seller, we have no guarantee that attrition of customers will not exceed expected levels for reasons that do not require the seller to indemnify us. If attrition exceeds our expectations, the revenue expected from these portfolios or membership agreements otherwise is less than we expected, or our costs of servicing these customers are higher than we expected, we may lose some or all of our investment. In addition, legal or regulatory requirements, availability of financing or other factors may prevent us from consummating acquisitions of membership agreements or customer portfolios offered by our clients, which may have an adverse impact on our relationships with those clients or our continued receipt of revenue from those portfolios or agreements. Fluctuations of foreign currency values may adversely affect our reported revenue, results of operations and financial condition We provide our consumer products and services to consumers in Canada. The fluctuations of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may adversely affect our reported revenue, results of operations and financial condition, and there can be no guarantee that our strategies to reduce these risks will be successful. Our stock price fluctuates and may continue to fluctuate significantly over a short period of time. In the past, our stock price has declined in response to period-to-period fluctuations in our revenue, expenses and operating results. In certain periods where our historical operating results have been below the expectations of analysts and investors, the price of our common stock has decreased significantly following earnings announcements. In addition, our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the timing and rate of subscription cancellations and additions; • the decrease in our revenue, earnings and subscriber base in 2013 and the anticipated reduction in our revenue and earnings in 2014; 21 Table of Contents • the loss of a key client or a change by a key client in the marketing or servicing of our products and services; • enforcement actions or other proceedings against us or our client; • our ability to introduce new and improve existing products and services on a timely basis; • the success of competing products and services by our competitors; • the demand for consumer subscription services generally; • amount and frequency of future dividend payments and share repurchases, if any; • the ability of third parties to support our services; and • general economic conditions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments. The declaration, amount and payment of any dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors. We are not obligated under any applicable laws, our governing documents or any contractual agreements or otherwise to declare or pay any dividends. Our board of directors may take into account, among other things, general economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, plans for expansion, tax, legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions and implications, including under our outstanding debt documents, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant in determining whether to declare or pay any dividend. As a result, if we do not declare or pay dividends you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, which may harm the market price of our common stock. Loeb Holding Corp., which is controlled by two of our directors, owns approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our executive officers and other directors own shares of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with the other public stockholders. If these stockholders act together, they could have the ability to significantly influence or control the management and affairs of our company and potentially determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any sale of the company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, discouraging or preventing a change in control transaction. We may be subject to assertions that taxes must be collected based on sales and use of our services in various states, which could expose us to liability and cause material harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Whether sales of our services are subject to state sales and use taxes is uncertain, due in part to the nature of our services and the relationships through which our services are offered, as well as changing state laws and interpretations of those laws. One or more states may seek to impose sales or use tax or other tax collection obligations on us, whether based on sales by us or our resellers or clients, including for past sales. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our services, discourage clients from offering or billing for our services, or otherwise cause material harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our Market Intelligence and Bail Bonds Industry Solutions segments are subject to various laws and regulations that may have an adverse effect on our business. Our Market Intelligence and Bail Bonds Industry Solutions segments subject to a wide variety of federal and state laws and regulations. These laws are subject to change and addition, and various governmental authorities in the United States and Canada have the authority to make and change regulations and rules under these laws. We incur significant costs to operate our business and monitor our compliance with these laws, regulations and rules, and these costs may be material. Any changes to the existing applicable laws, regulations or rules, or any determination that other laws, regulations or rules are applicable to us, could increase our costs or impede our ability to provide our products and services. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur material costs in responding to government investigations or proceedings, or private actions, and if we are found to have violated any of these laws or regulations we could incur liability and lose customers, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Companies in the Internet, technology, data management, wireless communications, wearable technology and other industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. The technologies we own or license from others may not be able to withstand challenge by the owners of any third-party claims or rights. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products and services to others and may require that we procure substitute products or services for these customers and clients and could require us to pay damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Competition could reduce our market share or decrease our revenue. We operate in highly competitive businesses. Our competitors may provide products and services comparable or superior to those provided by us, or at lower prices, adapt more quickly to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements, increase their emphasis on products and services similar to ours, enter the markets in which we operate or introduce competing products and services. Any of these factors could reduce our market share or decrease our revenue. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Several of our competitors offer products and services that are similar to, or that directly compete with, our products and services. Competition for new subscribers for our consumer products and services is also intense. Even after developing a client relationship, we compete within the client organization with other consumer products and services for appropriately targeted customers because client organizations typically have only limited capacity to market third-party products and services like ours. We also compete directly with the credit reporting agencies that control the credit file data that we use to provide our services. One or more of these credit reporting agencies may not make available to us or our customers the same features that they may offer in direct competition with us. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 