Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by any or all of the following factors, in which event the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 14 Table of Contents General Risks Related to Our Business Our business and future growth depend on our continued access to bank and commercial financing. An uncertain or recessed economy may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. During the past several years, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and foreign governments. An uncertain or recessed economy could also adversely impact our customers’ operations or ability to maintain liquidity, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business and future growth currently depend on our ability to access bank and commercial lines of credit. We currently depend on an aggregate of approximately $108 million in line of credit facilities provided by various banks and commercial lenders. These lines of credit currently mature at various dates through March 2014 and are secured by substantially all our assets. Our ability to renew our line of credit facilities depends upon various factors, including the availability of bank loans and commercial credit in general, as well as our financial condition and prospects. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that these credit facilities will continue to be available beyond their current maturities on reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to renew or replace our credit facilities or find alternative financing would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our clients and customers may be unable to pay us for our products and services Our clients and customers include some companies that may from time to time encounter financial difficulties, especially in light of the current economic environment and the turmoil in the credit markets. If a client’s or customer’s financial difficulties become severe, they may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. The bankruptcy of a client or customer with a substantial account receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a client or customer declares bankruptcy after paying us certain invoices, a court may determine that we are not properly entitled to that payment and may require repayment of some or all of the amounts we received, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate incurring significant expenses in the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. To reach our business growth objectives, we may increase our operating and marketing expenses, as well as capital expenditures. To offset these expenses, we will need to generate additional profitable business. If our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients’ projections indicate, or if our operating and marketing expenses exceed our expectations, we may not generate sufficient revenue to be profitable or be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis in the future. Additionally, if our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients’ projections indicate, we may incur unnecessary or redundant costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our financial statements to conform to United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions that were completed before a change is announced. Accounting rules affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to accounting for revenue recognition, arrangements involving multiple deliverables and operating leases, have recently been revised or are currently under review. Changes to those rules or current interpretation of those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct our business. We operate with significant levels of indebtedness and are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants; we are required to maintain a minimum level of subordinated loans to our subsidiary 15 Table of Contents Supplies Distributors; and we have guaranteed certain indebtedness and obligations of our subsidiaries Supplies Distributors and eCOST. As of December 31, 2010, our total credit facilities outstanding, including debt, capital lease obligations and our vendor accounts payable related to financing of IPS product inventory, was approximately $48.2 million. Certain of the credit facilities have maturity dates in calendar year 2012, but are classified as current liabilities in our consolidated financial statements given the underlying nature of the credit facility. We cannot provide assurance that our credit facilities will be renewed by the lending parties. Additionally, these credit facilities include both financial and non-financial covenants, many of which also include cross default provisions applicable to other agreements. These covenants also restrict our ability to transfer funds among our various subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to operate their businesses or comply with their respective loan covenants. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. Any non-renewal or any default under any of our credit facilities would have a material adverse impact upon our business and financial condition. In addition we have provided $4.3 million of subordinated indebtedness to Supplies Distributors as of December 31, 2010. The maximum level of this subordinated indebtedness to Supplies Distributors that may be provided without approval from our lenders is $5.0 million. The restrictions on increasing this amount without lender approval may limit our ability to comply with certain loan covenants or further grow and develop Supplies Distributors’ business. We have guaranteed most of the indebtedness of Supplies Distributors. Furthermore, we are obligated to repay any over-advance made to Supplies Distributors by its lenders to the extent Supplies Distributors is unable to do so. We have also guaranteed our subsidiary eCOST’s $7.5 million credit line, as well as certain of its vendor trade payables. We are dependent on our key personnel, and we need to hire and retain skilled personnel to sustain our business. Our performance is highly dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we need to attract and retain other highly-skilled, technical and managerial personnel for whom there is intense competition. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continuing growth of our business. Our inability to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business significantly. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. We currently operate a distribution center in Liège, Belgium with approximately 150,000 square feet and a distribution center in Markham, Ontario, Canada with approximately 23,000 square feet. We also operate a facility in the Philippines with approximately 7,000 square feet to provide call center and customer service functions and technical support. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding in these or any additional international markets. In addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenue from foreign operations and expand our international presence, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • changing regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainty regarding foreign laws, tariffs and other trade barriers; • political instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • cultural differences. Any one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, such as increased costs, operational difficulties and reductions in revenue. We are uncertain about our need for and the availability of additional funds. Our future capital needs are difficult to predict. We may require additional capital to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, including strategic alliances and acquisitions and to fund capital expenditures, or to respond to changing business conditions and unanticipated competitive pressures. We may also require additional 16 Table of Contents funds to finance operating losses. Should these circumstances arise, our existing cash balance and credit facilities may be insufficient and we may need to raise additional funds either by borrowing money or issuing additional equity. We cannot assure you that such resources will be adequate or available for all of our future financing needs. Our inability to finance our growth, either internally or externally, may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. If we are successful in completing an additional equity financing, this could result in further dilution to our shareholders or reduce the market value of our common stock. We may engage in future strategic alliances or acquisitions that could dilute our existing shareholders, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our business. We may review strategic alliance or acquisition opportunities that would complement our current business or enhance our technological capabilities. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through borrowing money or completing public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our shareholders. We may not be able to operate any acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities or technologies effectively, our operating results could suffer. Future acquisitions could also result in incremental expenses and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Based on the current requirements, and our public float, we are not required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to obtain a report by our independent auditors opining on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Delivery of our and our clients’ products could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control, and we could lose customers and clients as a result. We rely upon third party carriers for timely delivery of our and our clients’ product shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and increased fuel costs. Any failure to deliver products to our and our clients’ customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and could cause us to lose customers and clients. We cannot be sure that our relationships with third party carriers will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our relationship with any of these third party carriers is terminated or impaired or if any of these third parties is unable to deliver products, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of our and our clients’ products to customers. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include: • reduced visibility of order status and package tracking; • delays in order processing and product delivery; • increased cost of delivery, resulting in reduced margins; and • reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the operation of our distribution or call center facilities were interrupted or shut down as the result of a natural disaster. We operate a majority of our distribution facilities in and around the Memphis, Tennessee area and our call center operations are centered in Plano, Texas. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to these facilities due to fire, tornado, flood or any other cause would substantially disrupt our operations and would impair our ability to adequately service our customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs during the time it takes for 17 Table of Contents us to reopen or replace any one or more of these facilities, which may or may not be reimbursed by insurance. As a result, disruption at one or more of these facilities could adversely affect our profitability. We may be a party to litigation involving our eCommerce intellectual property rights. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could incur significant litigation costs, be required to pay damages, or change our business or incur licensing expenses. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patent and other intellectual property rights. We may be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our trade secrets or know-how. United States patent applications are confidential until a patent is issued and most technologies are developed in secret. Accordingly, we are not, and cannot be, aware of all patents or other intellectual property rights of which our services may pose a risk of infringement. Others asserting rights against us could force us to defend ourselves or our customers against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend any such litigation. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business or the technologies we use infringe on their intellectual property rights. As a result, we may be subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement in the future or whether any future claims will prevent us from offering popular products or services. If we are found to infringe, we may be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any technologies found to infringe. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are enjoined or required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. A breach of our eCommerce security measures could reduce demand for our services. Credit card fraud and other fraud could adversely affect our business. A requirement of the continued growth of eCommerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of our security could reduce demand for our services. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to address any problem they may cause. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation, cause us to lose clients, impact our ability to attract new clients and we could be exposed to litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. In certain circumstances, we do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud and other fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions on either our behalf or our client’s behalf could increase our expenses. We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers’ and our clients’ customers’ personal information. Data security laws are becoming more stringent in the United States and abroad. Third parties are engaging in increased cyber attacks against companies doing business on the Internet and individuals are increasingly subjected to identity and credit card theft on the Internet. If third parties or unauthorized employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our or our clients’ customers’ personal information or credit card information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. This liability could also include 18 Table of Contents claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. Liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In such circumstances, we also could be liable for failing to provide timely notice of a data security breach affecting certain types of personal information. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have brought numerous enforcement actions against Internet companies for alleged deficiencies in those companies’ privacy and data security practices, and they may continue to bring such actions. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the collection, use or storage of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy or security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of sensitive customer information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name. A party who is able to circumvent the security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to prevent security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name. We also may provide non-secured channels for customers to communicate. Despite the increased security risks, customers may use such channels to send personal information and other sensitive data. In addition, “phishing” incidents are on the rise. Phishing involves an online company’s customers being tricked into providing their credit card numbers or account information to someone pretending to be the online company’s representative. Such incidents have recently given rise to litigation against online companies for failing to take sufficient steps to police against such activities by third parties, and may discourage customers from using online services. Specific Risks Related to Our Business Process Outsourcing Business Our service fee revenue and gross margin is dependent upon our clients’ business and transaction volumes and our costs; many of our client service agreements are terminable by the client at will; we may incur financial penalties if we fail to meet contractual service levels under certain client service agreements. Our service fee revenue is primarily transaction based and fluctuates with the volume of transactions or level of sales of the products by our clients for whom we provide transaction management services. If we are unable to retain existing clients or attract new clients or if we dedicate significant resources to clients whose business does not generate sufficient revenue or whose products do not generate substantial customer sales, our business may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, our ability to estimate service fee revenue for future periods is substantially dependent upon our clients’ and our own projections, the accuracy of which has been, and will continue to be, unpredictable. Therefore, our planning for client activity and targeted goals for service fee revenue and gross margin may be materially adversely affected by incomplete, delayed or inaccurate projections. In addition, many of our service agreements with our clients are terminable by the client at will. Therefore, we cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services for any period of time. The loss of a significant amount of service fee revenue due to client terminations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cover our costs and thus on our profitability. Certain of our client service agreements contain minimum service level requirements and impose financial penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The imposition of a substantial amount of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We subcontract a portion of our client services to third parties, and we are subject to various risks and liabilities if such subcontractors do not provide the subcontracted services or provide them in a manner that does not meet required service levels. We currently, and may in the future, subcontract to one or more third parties a portion of our end-to-end solution service offering. Although our end-to-end solution service clients generally approve in advance the designation of the subcontractor and its provision of the subcontracted services, under the terms of our contracts with our end-to-end solution service clients, we remain liable to provide such subcontracted services and may be liable for the 19 Table of Contents actions and omissions of such subcontractors. In certain instances, our end-to-end solution service clients prepay in advance a portion of the service fees payable in respect of the subcontracted services, and, under certain circumstances, including our breach or the breach by our subcontractor of our or their respective obligations, we are liable to refund all or a portion of such prepaid fees. Consequently, in the event our subcontractor fails to provide the subcontracted services in compliance with required services levels, or otherwise breaches its obligations, or discontinues its business, whether as the result of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise, we may be required to provide such services at a higher cost to us and may otherwise be liable for various costs and expenses related to such event. In addition, any such failure may damage our reputation and otherwise result in a material adverse affect upon our business and financial condition. Our business is subject to the risk of customer and supplier concentration. For fiscal year 2010, four clients represented approximately 33% of our service fee revenue (excluding pass-through revenue). The loss of any one or more of these clients may have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition. The majority of our Supplies Distributors product revenue is generated by sales of product purchased under master distributor agreements with InfoPrint Solutions Company (“IPS”). These agreements are terminable at will and no assurance can be given that IPS will continue the master distributor agreements with Supplies Distributors. Supplies Distributors does not have its own sales force and relies upon IPS’s sales force and product demand generation activities for its sale of IPS product. Discontinuance of such activities would have a material adverse effect on Supplies Distributors’ business and our overall financial condition. Sales by Supplies Distributors to three customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 37% and 40% of Supplies Distributors’ total product revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively (24% and 27% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively). The loss of any one or more of such customers, or non-payment of any material amount by these or any other customer, would have a material adverse effect upon Supplies Distributors’ business. Our operating results are materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Our business is materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Based upon our current client mix and their current projected business volumes, we anticipate our revenue will be at its lowest in the first quarter of our fiscal year and at its highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. We are unable to predict how the seasonality of future clients’ business may affect our quarterly revenue and whether the seasonality may change due to modifications to a client’s business. As such, we believe that results of operations for a quarterly period may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. Our systems may not accommodate significant growth in our number of clients. Our success depends on our ability to handle a large number of transactions for many different clients in various product categories. We expect that the volume of transactions will increase significantly as we expand our operations. If this occurs, additional stress will be placed upon the network hardware and software that manages our operations. We cannot assure you of our ability to efficiently manage a large number of transactions. If we are not able to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, we may develop a negative reputation, and impair existing and prospective client relationships and our business would be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to recover all or a portion of our start-up costs associated with one or more of our clients. We generally incur start-up costs in connection with the planning and implementation of business process solutions for our clients. Although we generally attempt to recover these costs from the client in the early stages of the client relationship, or upon contract termination if the client terminates without cause prior to full amortization of these costs, there is a risk that the client contract may not fully cover the start-up costs. To the extent start-up costs exceed the start-up fees received, certain excess costs will be expensed as incurred. Additionally, in connection with new client contracts we generally incur capital expenditures associated with assets whose primary use is related to the client solution. There is a risk that the contract may end before expected and we may not recover the full amount of our capital costs. 20 Table of Contents Our revenue and margins may be materially impacted by client transaction volumes that differ from client projections and business assumptions. Our pricing for client transaction services, such as call center and fulfillment, is often based upon volume projections and business assumptions provided by the client and our anticipated costs to perform such work. In the event the actual level of activity or cost is substantially different from the projections or assumptions, we may have insufficient or excess staffing, incremental costs or other assets dedicated for such client that may negatively impact our margins and business relationship with such client. In the event we are unable to meet the service levels expected by the client, our relationship with the client will suffer and may result in financial penalties and/or the termination of the client contract. We face competition from many sources that could adversely affect our business. Many companies offer, on an individual basis, one or more of the same services we do, and we face competition from many different sources depending upon the type and range of services requested by a potential client. Our competitors include vertical outsourcers, which are companies that offer a single function, such as call centers, public warehouses or credit card processors. We compete against transportation logistics providers who offer product management functions as an ancillary service to their primary transportation services. We also compete against other business process outsourcing providers, who perform many similar services as us. Many of these companies have greater capabilities than we do for the single or multiple functions they provide. In many instances, our competition is the in-house operations of its potential clients themselves. The in-house operations of potential clients often believe that they can perform the same services we do, while others are reluctant to outsource business functions that involve direct customer contact. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors in the future. Our sales and implementation cycles are highly variable and our ability to finalize pending contracts may cause our operating results to vary widely. The sales cycle for our services is variable, typically ranging between several months to up to a year or longer from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally the sales cycle requires substantially more time. Delays in signing and executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. A potential client’s decision to purchase our services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment of the client’s resources and is influenced by intense internal and external pricing and operating comparisons. To successfully sell our services, we generally must educate our potential clients regarding the use and benefit of our services, which can require significant time and resources. Consequently, the period between initial contact and the purchase of our services is often long and subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant operational decisions. Additionally, the time required to finalize pending contracts and to implement our systems and integrate a new client can range from several weeks to many months. Delays in signing and integrating new clients may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Our business could be adversely affected by a systems or equipment failure, whether that of us or our clients. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our distribution facilities, customer service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage and failures. Damage or failures could result from fire, power loss, equipment malfunctions, system failures, natural disasters and other causes. If our business is interrupted either from accidents or the intentional acts of others, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event of widespread damage or failures at our facilities, our short-term disaster recovery and contingency plans and insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Our clients’ businesses may also be harmed from any system or equipment failures we experience. In that event, our relationship with these clients may be adversely affected, we may lose these clients, our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to liability. 21 Table of Contents Interruptions could also result from the intentional acts of others, like “hackers.” If our systems are penetrated by computer hackers, or if computer viruses infect our systems, our computers could fail or proprietary information could be misappropriated. If our clients suffer similar interruptions in their operations, for any of the reasons discussed above or for others, our business could also be adversely affected. Many of our clients’ computer systems interface with our systems. If our clients suffer interruptions in their systems, the link to our systems could be severed and sales of the client’s products could be slowed or stopped. Risks Related to the Business Process Outsourcing Industry If the trend toward outsourcing does not continue, our business could be adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected if the trend toward outsourcing declines or reverses, or if corporations bring previously outsourced functions back in-house. Particularly during general economic downturns, businesses may bring in-house previously outsourced functions to avoid or delay layoffs. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and to compete we must continually enhance our systems to comply with evolving standards. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services and the underlying network infrastructure. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, client requirements or emerging industry standards, our business could be adversely affected. The internet and eCommerce environments are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing services and develop new services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. Risks Related to Our Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile. You may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, announcements of material adverse events, general conditions in our industry or the public marketplace and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many technology related companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our operating results differ from our announced guidance or the expectations of equity research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our stock price could decline if a significant number of shares become available for sale. As of December 31, 2010, we have an aggregate of 2.3 million stock options outstanding to employees, directors and others with a weighted average exercise price of $4.28 per share. The shares of common stock that may be issued upon exercise of these options may be resold into the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market as a result of the exercise of these options, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to sell equity securities in the future. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders. 22 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors, meaning that only approximately one-third of our directors may be subject to re-election at each annual shareholder meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which may have rights and preferences superior to those of the common stock. The ability to issue preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan. These provisions could discourage takeover attempts and could materially adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large shareholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Pursuant to our bylaws and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 