RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by any or all of the following factors, in which event the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to All Our Business Segments Certain of our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results. Effective February 1, 2006, we consolidate eCOST.com’s financial position and results of our operations into our consolidated financial statements. As a result of our acquisition of eCOST, our historical results of operations may not be indicative of our future operating or financial performance. We anticipate incurring significant expenses in the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. To reach our business growth objectives, we may increase our operating and marketing expenses, as well as capital expenditures. To offset these expenses, we will need to generate additional profitable business. If our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients’ projections indicate, or if our operating and marketing expenses exceed our expectations, we may not generate sufficient revenue to be profitable or be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis in the future. Additionally, if our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients’ projections indicate, we may incur unnecessary or redundant costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions that were completed before a change is announced. Accounting rules affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to accounting for asset impairments, revenue recognition, arrangements involving multiple deliverables, employee stock purchase plans and stock option grants, have recently been revised or are currently under review. Changes to those rules or current interpretation of those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct our business. We operate with significant levels of indebtedness and are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants; we are required to maintain a minimum level of subordinated loans to our subsidiary Supplies Distributors; and we have guaranteed certain indebtedness and obligations of our subsidiaries Supplies Distributors and eCOST. As of December 31, 2007, our total credit facilities outstanding, including debt, capital lease obligations and our vendor accounts payable related to financing of IPS product inventory, was approximately $65.6 million. Certain of the credit facilities have maturity dates in calendar year 2009 or after, but are classified as current liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide assurance that our credit facilities will be renewed by the lending parties. Additionally, these credit facilities include both financial and non-financial covenants, many of which also include cross default provisions applicable to other agreements. These covenants also restrict our ability to transfer funds among our various subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to operate their businesses or comply with their respective loan covenants. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. Any non-renewal or any default under any of our credit facilities would have a material adverse impact upon our business and financial condition. In addition we have provided $6.0 million of subordinated indebtedness to Supplies Distributors, the minimum level required under certain credit facilities as of December 31, 2007. The maximum level of this subordinated indebtedness to Supplies Distributors that may be provided without approval from our lenders is $6.5 million. The restrictions on increasing this amount without lender approval may limit our ability to comply with certain loan covenants or further grow and develop Supplies Distributors’ business. We have guaranteed most of the indebtedness of Supplies Distributors. Furthermore, we are obligated to repay any over-advance made to Supplies Distributors by its lenders to the extent Supplies Distributors is unable to do so. We have also guaranteed eCOST’s $7.5 million credit line with Wachovia, as well as certain of its vendor trade payables. We currently expect that it may be necessary to provide additional guarantees of certain eCOST vendor trade payables in the future. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on our key personnel, and we need to hire and retain skilled personnel to sustain our business. Our performance is highly dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we need to attract and retain other highly-skilled, technical and managerial personnel for whom there is intense competition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continuing growth of our business. Our inability to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel would materially adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. We currently operate a 150,000 square foot distribution center in Liege, Belgium and a 22,000 square foot distribution center in Markham, Canada, near Eastern Toronto, both of which currently have excess capacity. We also operate a 6,500 square foot facility in the Philippines to provide primarily call center and customer service functions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding in these or any additional international markets. In addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenue from foreign operations and expand our international presence, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • changing regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainty regarding foreign laws, tariffs and other trade barriers; • political instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • cultural differences. Any one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, such as increased costs, operational difficulties and reductions in revenue. We are uncertain about our need for and the availability of additional funds. Our future capital needs are difficult to predict. We may require additional capital to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, including strategic alliances and acquisitions and to fund capital expenditures, or to respond to changing business conditions and unanticipated competitive pressures. We may also require additional funds to finance operating losses, including continuing operating losses currently anticipated to be incurred by eCOST. Should these circumstances arise, our existing cash balance and credit facilities may be insufficient and we may need to raise additional funds either by borrowing money or issuing additional equity. We cannot assure you that such resources will be adequate or available for all of our future financing needs. Our inability to finance our growth, either internally or externally, may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. If we are successful in completing an additional equity financing, this could result in further dilution to our shareholders or reduce the market value of our common stock. We may engage in future strategic alliances or acquisitions that could dilute our existing shareholders, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our business. We may review strategic alliance or acquisition opportunities that would complement our current business or enhance our technological capabilities. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through borrowing money or completing public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our shareholders. We may not be able to operate any acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities or technologies effectively, our operating results could suffer. Future acquisitions could also result in incremental expenses and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our 22 Table of Contents financial reporting, which could harm our business, and the trading price of our common stock. Based on the current requirements, and our current public float, we were not required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2007, as it relates to the requirement to obtain a report by our independent auditors opining on management’s assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Under current law, and our current public float, we will be subject to the independent auditor requirement for the year ending December 31, 2009. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Delivery of our and our clients’ products could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control, and we could lose customers and clients as a result. We rely upon third party carriers for timely delivery of our and our clients’ product shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and increased fuel costs. Any failure to deliver products to our and our clients’ customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and could cause us to lose customers and clients. We cannot be sure that our relationships with third party carriers will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our relationship with any of these third party carriers is terminated or impaired or if any of these third parties is unable to deliver products, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of our and our clients’ products to customers. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include: • reduced visibility of order status and package tracking; • delays in order processing and product delivery; • increased cost of delivery, resulting in reduced margins; and • reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the operation of our distribution or call center facilities were interrupted or shut down as the result of a natural disaster. We operate a majority of our distribution facilities in or around the Memphis, Tennessee area and our call center operations are centered in Plano, Texas. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to these facilities due to fire, tornado, flood or any other cause would substantially disrupt our operations and would impair our ability to adequately service our customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace any one or more of these facilities, which may or may not be reimbursed by insurance. As a result, disruption at one or more of these facilities could adversely affect our profitability. We may be a party to litigation involving our e-commerce intellectual property rights. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could incur significant litigation costs, be required to pay damages, or change our business or incur licensing expenses. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patent and other intellectual property rights. We may be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our trade secrets or know-how. United States patent applications are confidential until a patent is issued and most technologies are developed in secret. Accordingly, we are not, and cannot be, aware of all patents or other intellectual property rights of which our services may pose a risk of infringement. Others asserting rights against us could force us to defend ourselves or our customers against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend any such litigation. Third parties such as MercExchange and others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our business or the technologies we use infringe on their intellectual property rights. As a result, we may be subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement in the future or whether any future claims will prevent us from offering popular 23 Table of Contents products or services. If we are found to infringe, we may be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any technologies found to infringe. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are enjoined or required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms on a timely basis, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. A breach of our e-commerce security measures could reduce demand for its services. Credit card fraud and other fraud could adversely affect our business. A requirement of the continued growth of e-commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of our security could reduce demand for our services. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to address any problem they may cause. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation, cause us to lose clients, impact our ability to attract new clients and we could be exposed to litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. In certain circumstances, we do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud and other fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions on either our behalf or our client’s behalf could increase our expenses. We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers’ and our clients’ customers’ personal information. Data security laws are becoming more stringent in the United States and abroad. Third parties are engaging in increased cyber attacks against companies doing business on the Internet and individuals are increasingly subjected to identity and credit card theft on the Internet. If third parties or unauthorized employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our or our clients’ customers’ personal information or credit card information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. Liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In such circumstances, we also could be liable for failing to provide timely notice of a data security breach affecting certain types of personal information. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have brought numerous enforcement actions against Internet companies for alleged deficiencies in those companies’ privacy and data security practices, and they may continue to bring such actions. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the collection, use or storage of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy or security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of sensitive customer information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name. A party who is able to circumvent the security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to prevent security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name. 24 Table of Contents We also may provide non-secured channels for customers to communicate. Despite the increased security risks, customers may use such channels to send personal information and other sensitive data. In addition, “phishing” incidents are on the rise. Phishing involves an online company’s customers being tricked into providing their credit card numbers or account information to someone pretending to be the online company’s representative. Such incidents have recently given rise to litigation against online companies for failing to take sufficient steps to police against such activities by third parties, and may discourage customers from using online services. We are subject to a dispute with a municipal authority, which, if not resolved in our favor, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. We receive municipal tax abatements in certain locations. During 2004 we received notice from a municipal authority that we did not satisfy certain criteria necessary to maintain the abatements. In December 2006 we received notice that the municipal authority planned to make an adjustment to our tax abatement. We have disputed the adjustment, but if the dispute is not resolved favorably, additional taxes of approximately $1.7 million could be assessed against us. Risks Related to Our PFS and Supplies Distributors Operating Segments Our service fee revenue and gross margin is dependent upon our clients’ business and transaction volumes and our costs; many of our client service agreements are terminable by the client at will; we may incur financial penalties if we fail to meet contractual service levels under certain client service agreements. Our service fee revenue is primarily transaction based and fluctuates with the volume of transactions or level of sales of the products by our clients for whom we provide transaction management services. If we are unable to retain existing clients or attract new clients or if we dedicate significant resources to clients whose business does not generate sufficient revenue or whose products do not generate substantial customer sales, our business may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, our ability to estimate service fee revenue for future periods is substantially dependent upon our clients’ and our own projections, the accuracy of which has been, and will continue to be, unpredictable. Therefore, our planning for client activity and targeted goals for service fee revenue and gross margin may be materially adversely affected by incomplete, delayed or inaccurate projections. In addition, many of our service agreements with our clients are terminable by the client at will. Therefore, we cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services for any period of time. The loss of a significant amount of service fee revenue due to client terminations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cover our costs and thus on our profitability. Certain of our client service agreements contain minimum service level requirements and impose financial penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The imposition of a substantial amount of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our business is subject to the risk of customer and supplier concentration. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, a prime contractor (for whom we were a subcontractor) to a U.S. government agency, a consumer products company and Xerox Corporation represented approximately 27%, 12% and 11%, respectively, and approximately 23%, 19% and 12%, respectively of our total service fee revenue, net of pass-through revenue. The loss of, or non-payment of invoices by, any or all of such clients would have a material adverse effect upon our business. In particular, the agreement under which we provide services to such clients are terminable at will upon notice by such clients. A substantial portion of our Supplies Distributors product revenue was generated by sales of product purchased under master distributor agreements with the Printing System Division of IBM and was dependent on IBM’s business and the continuing market for IBM products. Supplies Distributors does not have its own sales force and relies upon a third party for sales force and product demand generation services. In January 2007, IBM and Ricoh announced the planned formation of a joint venture company to succeed the business of IBM’s Printing Systems Division. Upon closing of the agreement in June 2007, Ricoh acquired 51% of the joint venture, which is called InfoPrint Solutions Company (“IPS”), and stated its intentions to progressively acquire the remaining 49% over the next three years. IPS is expected to eventually become a fully owned subsidiary of Ricoh. Although our prior master distributor agreements with IBM have been assigned to IPS, these agreements are terminable at will and no assurance can be given that InfoPrint Solutions Company will continue the master distributor agreements with 25 Table of Contents Supplies Distributors. A termination of this relationship or a decline in customer demand for these products would have a material adverse effect on Supplies Distributors’ business and the Company’s financial condition. Sales by Supplies Distributors to two customers accounted for approximately 28% of Supplies Distributors’ total product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sales to the same two customers accounted for approximately 27% of Supplies Distributors’ product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. The loss of any one or more of such customers, or non-payment of any material amount by these or any other customer, would have a material adverse effect upon Supplies Distributors’ business. Supplies Distributors also relies upon outsourced sales force and product demand generation services and the termination of such services would have a material impact upon Supplies Distributors’ business. Our operating results are materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Our business is materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Based upon our current client mix and their current projected business volumes, we anticipate our service fee revenue business activity will be at its lowest in the first quarter of our fiscal year and that our master distributor product revenue business activity will be at its highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. We are unable to predict how the seasonality of future clients’ business may affect our quarterly revenue and whether the seasonality may change due to modifications to a client’s business. As such, we believe that results of operations for a quarterly period may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. Our systems may not accommodate significant growth in our number of clients. Our success depends on our ability to handle a large number of transactions for many different clients in various product categories. We expect that the volume of transactions will increase significantly as we expand our operations. If this occurs, additional stress will be placed upon the network hardware and software that manages our operations. We cannot assure you of our ability to efficiently manage a large number of transactions. If we are not able to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, we may develop a negative reputation, and impair existing and prospective client relationships and our business would be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to recover all or a portion of our start-up costs associated with one or more of our clients. We generally incur start-up costs in connection with the planning and implementation of business process solutions for our clients. Although we generally attempt to recover these costs from the client in the early stages of the client relationship, or upon contract termination if the client terminates without cause prior to full amortization of these costs, there is a risk that the client contract may not fully cover the start-up costs. To the extent start-up costs exceed the start-up fees received, excess costs will be expensed as incurred. Additionally, in connection with new client contracts we generally incur capital expenditures associated with assets whose primary use is related to the client solution. There is a risk that the contract may end before expected and we may not recover the full amount of our capital costs. Our revenue and margins may be materially impacted by client transaction volumes that differ from client projections and business assumptions. Our pricing for client transaction services, such as call center and fulfillment, is often based upon volume projections and business assumptions provided by the client and our anticipated costs to perform such work. In the event the actual level of activity or cost is substantially different from the projections or assumptions, we may have insufficient or excess staffing, incremental costs or other assets dedicated for such client that may negatively impact our margins and business relationship with such client. In the event we are unable to meet the service levels expected by the client, our relationship with the client will suffer and may result in financial penalties and/or the termination of the client contract. We face competition from many sources that could adversely affect our business. Many companies offer, on an individual basis, one or more of the same services we do, and we face competition from many different sources depending upon the type and range of services requested by a potential client. Our 26 Table of Contents competitors include vertical outsourcers, which are companies that offer a single function, such as call centers, public warehouses or credit card processors. We compete against transportation logistics providers who offer product management functions as an ancillary service to their primary transportation services. We also compete against other business process outsourcing providers, who perform many similar services as us. Many of these companies have greater capabilities than we do for the single or multiple functions they provide. In many instances, our competition is the in-house operations of its potential clients themselves. The in-house operations of potential clients often believe that they can perform the same services we do, while others are reluctant to outsource business functions that involve direct customer contact. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors in the future. Our sales and implementation cycles are highly variable and our ability to finalize pending contracts may cause our operating results to vary widely. The sales cycle for our services is variable, typically ranging between several months to up to a year or longer from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally the sales cycle requires substantially more time. Delays in signing and executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. A potential client’s decision to purchase our services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment of the client’s resources and is influenced by intense internal and external pricing and operating comparisons. To successfully sell our services, we generally must educate our potential clients regarding the use and benefit of our services, which can require significant time and resources. Consequently, the period between initial contact and the purchase of our services is often long and subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant operational decisions. Additionally, the time required to finalize pending contracts and to implement our systems and integrate a new client can range from several weeks to many months. Delays in signing and integrating new clients may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Our business could be adversely affected by a systems or equipment failure, whether that of us or our clients. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our distribution facilities, customer service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage and failures. Damage or failures could result from fire, power loss, equipment malfunctions, system failures, natural disasters and other causes. If our business is interrupted either from accidents or the intentional acts of others, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event of widespread damage or failures at our facilities, our short-term disaster recovery and contingency plans and insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Our clients’ businesses may also be harmed from any system or equipment failures we experience. In that event, our relationship with these clients may be adversely affected, we may lose these clients, our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to liability. Interruptions could also result from the intentional acts of others, like “hackers.” If our systems are penetrated by computer hackers, or if computer viruses infect our systems, our computers could fail or proprietary information could be misappropriated. If our clients suffer similar interruptions in their operations, for any of the reasons discussed above or for others, our business could also be adversely affected. Many of our clients’ computer systems interface with our systems. If our clients suffer interruptions in their systems, the link to our systems could be severed and sales of the client’s products could be slowed or stopped. Risks Related to the Business Process Outsourcing Industry If the trend toward outsourcing does not continue, our business will be adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected if the trend toward outsourcing declines or reverses, or if corporations bring previously outsourced functions back in-house. Particularly during general economic downturns, businesses may bring in-house previously outsourced functions to avoid or delay layoffs. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad and the potential for sustained military action may cause disruption to 27 Table of Contents commerce and economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and new client prospects. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and to compete we must continually enhance our systems to comply with evolving standards. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services and the underlying network infrastructure. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, client requirements or emerging industry standards, our business could be adversely affected. The internet and e-commerce environments are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance our existing services and develop new services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. Risks Related to our Merger with eCOST We may fail to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and other benefits expected from the merger. We entered into a merger with eCOST with the expectation that the merger will result in synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and other benefits to the combined company. However, there can be no assurance that we will realize these anticipated benefits. The combination of our businesses may not result in combined financial performance that is better than what our company would have achieved independently if the merger had not occurred. eCOST may be liable to PC Mall for taxes arising as a result of the merger. In connection with the consummation of the merger, eCOST received a written opinion from its legal counsel to the effect that the merger should not cause Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code to apply to the April 2005 spin-off of eCOST from its former parent, PC Mall. Such opinion was based on certain factual representations made by PC Mall and eCOST and certain factual and legal assumptions made by eCOST’s legal counsel. Such opinion represented such legal counsel’s best judgment regarding the application of the U.S. federal income tax laws, but is not binding on the IRS or the courts. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position or that any such contrary position would not be sustained by a court. If the merger does cause Section 355(e) to apply to the April 2005 spin-off of eCOST from PC Mall, eCOST will be liable to PC Mall for any resulting tax-related liabilities. Risks Related to eCOST, our Online Discount Retailer Segment We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred continuing operating losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our ability to achieve or maintain profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • increase sales; • maintain and expand vendor relationships; • obtain additional and increase existing trade credit with key suppliers; • generate sufficient gross profit; and • control costs and generate the expected synergies applicable to the merger. We may need additional financing and may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at 28 Table of Contents all, which could increase our costs and limit our ability to grow. We may need to obtain additional financing and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain additional financing or our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms will materially adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability and grow our business. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which we cannot control. We operate in a highly dynamic industry and future results could be subject to significant fluctuations. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than revenue and expenses in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • price competition that results in lower sales volumes, lower profit margins, or net losses; • our ability to prevent credit card fraud and reduce chargeback activity; • the amount, timing and impact of advertising and marketing costs; • our ability to successfully implement new technologies or software systems; • our ability to obtain sufficient financing; • changes in the number of visitors to our website or our inability to convert those visitors into customers; • technical difficulties, including system or Internet failures; • fluctuations in the demand for our products or overstocking or under-stocking of products; • fluctuations in revenues and shipping costs, particularly during the holiday season; • economic conditions generally or economic conditions specific to the Internet, online commerce, the retail industry or the mail order industry; • changes in the mix of products that we sell; and • fluctuations in levels of inventory theft, damage or obsolescence. The failure to improve our financial and operating performance may result in a failure to comply with our financial covenants. In the event we are unable to increase our revenue and/or gross profit from our present levels and do not achieve a sufficient level of operating efficiencies, we may fail to comply with one or more of the financial covenants required under our working capital line of credit. In such event, absent a waiver, the working capital lender would be entitled to accelerate all amounts outstanding thereunder and exercise all other rights and remedies, including sale of collateral and payment under the parent guaranty. If we fail to accurately predict our inventory risk, our margins may decline as a result of write-downs of our inventory due to lower prices obtained for older or obsolete products. Some of the products we sell on our website are characterized by rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion (for example, computer hardware, software and consumer electronics), and because we may sometimes stock large quantities of particular types of inventory, inventory reserves may be required or may subsequently prove insufficient, and additional inventory write-downs may be required. Increased product returns or a failure to accurately predict product returns could decrease our revenues and impact profitability. We make allowances for product returns based on historical return rates. We are responsible for returns of certain products ordered through our website from our distribution center as well as products that are shipped to our customers directly from our vendors. If our actual product returns significantly exceed our allowances for returns, especially as we expand into new product categories, our revenues and profitability could decrease. In addition, because our allowances are based on historical return rates, the introduction of new merchandise categories, new products, changes in our product mix, or other factors may cause actual returns to exceed return allowances, perhaps 29 Table of Contents significantly. In addition, any policies intended to reduce the number of product returns may result in customer dissatisfaction, increased credit card chargeback activity and fewer repeat customers. Our ability to offer a broad selection of products at competitive prices is dependent on our ability to maintain existing and build new relationships with manufacturers and vendors. We do not have long-term agreements with our manufacturers or vendors and some of our manufacturers and vendors compete directly with us. We purchase products for resale both directly from manufacturers and indirectly through distributors and other sources, all of whom we consider our vendors. We do not have any long-term agreements with any of these vendors. Any agreements with vendors governing our purchase of products are generally terminable by either party upon 30 days’ notice or less. In general, we agree to offer products on our website and the vendors agree to provide us with information about their products and honor our customer service policies. If we do not maintain relationships with vendors on acceptable terms, including favorable product pricing and vendor consideration, we may not be able to offer a broad selection of products or continue to offer products at competitive prices, and customers may choose not to shop at our website. In addition, some vendors may decide not to offer particular products for sale on the Internet, and others may avoid offering their new products to retailers like us who offer a mix of close-out and recertified products in addition to new products. From time to time, vendors may terminate our right to sell some or all of our products, change the applicable terms and conditions of sale or reduce or discontinue the incentives or vendor consideration that they offer. Any such termination or the implementation of such changes could have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, some products are subject to manufacturer or distributor allocation, which limits the number of units of those products that are available to us and other resellers. Our business is subject to the risk of supplier concentration. Our business is dependent on sales of Hewlett Packard (HP) and HP-related products, which represented approximately 49% of eCOST’s net revenues (11% of our consolidated net revenues) in 2007, 33% of eCOST’s net revenues (7% of our consolidated net revenues whereby eCOST had 11 months of activity) in 2006 and 28% of eCOST’s net revenues in 2005. If our ability to purchase direct from HP is terminated or restricted, or if the demand for HP and HP-related products declines, our business will be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the success of our advertising and marketing efforts, which are costly and may not achieve desired results, and on our ability to attract customers on cost-effective terms. Our revenues depend on our ability to advertise and market our products effectively. Increases in the costs of advertising and marketing, including costs of online advertising, paper and postage costs, costs and fees of third-party service providers and the costs of complying with applicable regulations, may limit our ability to advertise and market our business without impacting our profitability. If our advertising and marketing efforts prove ineffective or do not produce a sufficient level of sales to cover their costs, or if we decrease our advertising or marketing activities due to increased costs, restrictions enacted by regulatory agencies or for any other reason, our revenues and profit margins may decrease. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers on cost-effective terms. We have relationships with online services, search engines, shopping engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses through which we provide advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website. We expect to rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our website and to generate new customers. If we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers on a cost-effective basis could be harmed. In addition, certain of our existing online marketing agreements require us to pay fixed placement fees or fees for directing visits to our eCOST website, neither of which may convert into sales. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenues, our quarterly results may fluctuate. Our business is moderately seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales for the retail industry during the holiday shopping season. Typically, a larger portion of our revenues occur during the first and fourth fiscal quarters. We believe that our historical revenue growth makes it difficult to predict the effect of seasonality on our future revenues and results of operations. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the first and fourth quarters, we incur additional expenses, including higher inventory and staffing costs. If sales for the first and fourth quarters do not meet anticipated levels, then increased expenses may not be offset which could decrease our profitability. If we 30 Table of Contents were to experience lower than expected sales during our first or fourth quarters, for any reason, it would decrease our profitability. Our business may be harmed by fraudulent activities on our website. We have received in the past, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, communications from customers due to purported fraudulent activities on our eCOST website. Negative publicity generated as a result of fraudulent conduct by third parties could damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand name. Fraudulent activities on our eCOST website could also subject us to losses. We expect to continue to receive requests from customers for reimbursement due to purportedly fraudulent activities or threats of legal action if no reimbursement is made. If we do not successfully expand our eCOST website and processing systems to accommodate higher levels of traffic and changing customer demands, we could lose customers and our revenues could decline. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our website. If we fail to upgrade our website in a timely manner to accommodate higher volumes of traffic, our website performance could suffer and we may lose customers. The Internet and the e-commerce industry are subject to rapid technological change. If competitors introduce new features and website enhancements embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing eCOST website and systems may become obsolete or unattractive. Developing our eCOST website and other systems entails significant technical and business risks. We may face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. If this happens, customers may forgo the use of our eCOST website and use those of our competitors. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our website, transaction processing systems and computer network to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we fail to successfully expand our merchandise categories and product offerings in a cost-effective and timely manner, our reputation and the value of our new and existing brands could be harmed, customer demand for our products could decline and our profit margins could decrease. Historically, we have generated the substantial majority of our revenues from the sale of computer hardware, software and accessories and consumer electronics products. In recent years, we have added several new product categories, including digital imaging, watches and jewelry, housewares, DVD movies, video games and cellular/wireless. While our merchandising platform has been incorporated into and tested in the online computer and consumer electronics retail markets, we cannot predict with certainty whether it can be successfully applied to other product categories. In addition, expansion of our business strategy into new product categories may require us to incur significant marketing expenses, develop relationships with new vendors and comply with new regulations. We may lack the necessary expertise in a new product category to realize the expected benefits of that new category. These requirements could strain managerial, financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand into new product categories include our ability to: • establish or increase awareness of new brands and product categories; • acquire, attract and retain customers at a reasonable cost; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all product categories; • attract a sufficient number of new customers to whom new product categories are targeted; • successfully market new product offerings to existing customers; • maintain or improve gross margins and fulfillment costs; • attract and retain vendors to provide an expanded line of products to customers on terms that are acceptable; and • manage inventory in new product categories. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully address any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable us to expand our business into new product categories in a cost-effective or timely manner. If our new categories of products or services are not received favorably, or if our suppliers fail to meet our customers’ expectations, our results of operations would suffer and our reputation and the value of the applicable new brand and other brands could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of our new product categories or inability to generate 31 Table of Contents satisfactory revenues from any expanded product categories to offset our cost could harm our business. Credit card fraud could materially adversely affect our business. We do not currently carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our revenues and gross margin. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we did not obtain a cardholder’s signature. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, or if credit card companies require more burdensome terms, refuse to accept credit card charges or assess financial penalties, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer service operations. Any material disruption or slowdown in our order processing systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing and training for our customer service operations, our reputation could be seriously harmed and we could lose customers. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer service would likely impair our reputation and decrease our revenues. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. The market for online sales of the products we offer is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We principally compete with a variety of online retailers, specialty retailers and other businesses that offer products similar to or the same as our products. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. We expect competition to intensify in the future because current and new competitors can enter the market with little difficulty and can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. In addition, some of our product vendors have sold, and continue to intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to customers. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of businesses, including: • other multi-category online retailers and liquidation e-tailers; • online discount retailers of computer and consumer electronics merchandise such as Buy.com, NewEgg and TigerDirect; • consumer electronics and office supply superstores such as Best Buy, Circuit City, CompUSA, Office Depot, OfficeMax and Staples; and • manufacturers such as Apple, Dell, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard and IBM, that sell directly to customers. Many of the current and potential competitors described above have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, online retailers may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies. Some of our competitors may be able to secure products from manufacturers or vendors on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we are able to. If the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, our eCOST brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. We have five trademarks and/or service marks that we consider to be material to the successful operation of our business: eCOST®, eCOST.com®, eCOST.com Your Online Discount Superstore!™, Bargain Countdown® and Bargain Countdown Platinum Club™. We currently use all of these marks in connection with telephone, mail order, catalog, and online retail services. We also have several additional pending trademark applications. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, 32 Table of Contents consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. Our applications may not be granted, and we may not be able to secure significant protection for our service marks or trademarks. Our competitors or others could adopt trademarks or service marks similar to our marks, or try to prevent us from using our marks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Any claim by another party against us for customer confusion caused by use of our trademarks or service marks, or our failure to obtain registrations for our marks, could negatively affect our competitive position and could cause us to lose customers. We have also filed an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for patent protection for our proprietary Bargain Countdown™ technology. We may not be granted a patent for this technology and may not be able to enforce our patent rights if our competitors or others use infringing technology. If this occurs, our competitive position, revenues and profitability could be negatively affected. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we will sell our products and offer our services. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our competitive position could be negatively affected and we could lose customers. We also rely on technologies that we license from related and third parties. These licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. As a result, we may be required to develop or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or at greater cost, which could negatively affect our competitive position, cause us to lose customers and decrease our profitability. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming. We sell products manufactured and distributed by third parties, some of which may be defective or may not comply with applicable laws or regulations, such as laws or regulations requiring warning labels. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or damage to property or otherwise not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to claims being asserted against us as the retailer of the product. Our insurance coverage may not be available or adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of its insurance coverage, it could expose us to significant liability. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could decrease profitability. eCOST may be subject to future impairment charges related to eCOST’s intangible assets. The valuation of intangible assets related to eCOST is dependent upon, among other things, the estimated value of eCOST’s projected cash flows for its business. In the event eCOST is unable to meet such projections, or such estimated values are otherwise less than the carrying value of such intangibles, we may be required under current accounting rules to record an impairment charge in connection with the write-down of such intangibles. Risks Related to Our eCOST Online Retailer Operating Segment’s Industry Additional sales and use taxes could be imposed on past or future sales of our products or other products sold on our eCOST website, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In accordance with current industry practice and our interpretation of applicable law, we collect and remit sales taxes only with respect to physical shipments of goods into states where we have a physical presence. If any state or other jurisdiction successfully challenges this practice and imposes sales taxes on orders on which we do not collect and remit sales taxes, we could be exposed to substantial tax liabilities for past sales and could suffer decreased sales in that state or jurisdiction in the future. In addition, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various legislative initiatives that could result in the imposition of additional sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives are enacted, we could be required to collect sales taxes in states where we do not have a physical presence. Future changes in the operation of our business also could result in the imposition of additional sales tax obligations. The imposition of additional sales and use taxes on past or future sales could 33 Table of Contents adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Existing or future government regulation could expose us to liabilities and costly changes in our business operations, and could reduce customer demand for our products. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, marketing and promotional practices, database protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, email and other communications, consumer protection, product safety, the provision of online payment services, intellectual property rights, unauthorized access (including the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act), and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is unclear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, trespass, data mining and collection, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may expose us to liabilities and costly changes in our business operations, and could reduce customer demand. The growth and demand for online commerce has and may continue to result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on online companies. For example, the laws of many states require notice to customers if certain personal information about them is obtained by an unauthorized person, such as a computer hacker. These consumer protection laws could result in substantial compliance costs and could decrease profitability. Risks Related to Our Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile. You may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, announcements of material adverse events, general conditions in our industry or the public marketplace and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many technology related companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our operating results differ from our announced guidance or the expectations of equity research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our stock price could decline if a significant number of shares become available for sale. As of December 31, 2007, we had issued and outstanding 0.6 million warrants to purchase common stock (having a weighted average exercise price of $2.29 per share). In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we have an aggregate of 6.1 million stock options outstanding to employees, directors and others with a weighted average exercise price of $1.23 per share. The shares of common stock that may be issued upon exercise of these warrants and options may be resold into the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market as a result of the exercise of these warrants or options, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to sell equity securities in the future. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Historically, the price of our common stock has traded below $1.00 per share. If the price of our common stock declines below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, we may fail to meet Nasdaq’s maintenance criteria, which may result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. In the event of such delisting, trading, if any, in our common stock may then continue to be conducted in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board and the ‘‘pink sheets.’’ As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to a Rule promulgated by the SEC that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such Rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell 34 Table of Contents securities governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the Rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of shareholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market will also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors, meaning that only approximately one-third of our directors may be subject to re-election at each annual shareholder meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which may have rights and preferences superior to those of the common stock. The ability to issue preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan. These provisions could discourage takeover attempts and could materially adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large shareholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Pursuant to our bylaws and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. 35 Table of Contents 