Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.. Changes in interest rates and our ability to successfully manage interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on the net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We believe that we are asset sensitive over a one-year time frame, which means that our net interest income will generally rise in higher interest rate environments and decline in lower interest rate environments. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if the market interest rate changes such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. The Federal Reserve has made significant changes in interest rates during the last few years, including three cuts in the first quarter of 2008 totaling 200 basis points, following three cuts totaling 100 basis points made during late 2007. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there are costs associated with our risk management techniques, and these costs could be material. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predicable or controllable and therefore, there can be no assurances of our ability to continue to maintain a consistent positive spread between the interest earned on our earning assets and the interest paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans. Rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest income, asset quality, and loan origination volume. Significant risks accompany our recent and continued expansion. We have recently experienced significant growth, and will likely continue to grow by opening new branches or loan production offices and through acquisitions. Such expansion could place a strain on our resources, systems, operations, and cash flow. Our ability to manage this expansion will depend on our ability to monitor operations and control costs, maintain effective quality controls, expand our internal management and technical and accounting systems and otherwise successfully integrate new branches and acquired businesses. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition, and operating results will be negatively impacted. Because we may continue to grow by opening new branches or loan production offices and acquiring banks or branches of other banks that we believe provide a strategic 28 fit with our business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Risks associated with acquisition activity include the following: •difficulties and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; •inaccuracies in estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; •our ability to finance an acquisition; •the diversion of management's attention to negotiate a transaction and integrate the operations and personnel of an acquired business; •our lack of experience in markets into which we may enter; •difficulties and expense in integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; •loss of key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received; and •the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations. We expect to compete with other financial institutions regarding any potential acquisitions. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us, or at all. We may not be able to integrate any banks we acquire successfully. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock, and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. Our decisions regarding credit risk may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed our loan loss reserves. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: •the duration of the credit; •credit risks of a particular customer; •changes in economic and industry conditions; and •in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory limits, in certain circumstances we have made loans that exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory limits, or both. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $13.8 million, or approximately 2.91% of our loans, net of unearned income, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory limits. We generally consider making such loans only after taking into account the financial strength of the borrower. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory limits, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies or defaults in our portfolio. Any such delinquencies or defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 29 We could sustain losses from a decline in credit quality. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors, or related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans or if we fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with credit quality or asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. During December of 2007, we identified adverse developments with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio. In response to this determination, we increased the amount of nonperforming assets during the fourth quarter of 2007 to $14.3 million to address the risks within our loan portfolio. In our earnings release on January 16, 2008, we initially reported $7 million in nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2007, in addition to $2.3 million in other real estate owned. However, due to recent developments since December 31, 2007, we have recognized and retroactively reflected an additional $5 million in nonperforming assets for a total of $9.3 million in nonperforming assets. Recent developments, including deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market as a whole, may cause management to adjust its opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses to increase, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate and a downturn in commercial real estate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $322.8 million in loans outstanding to borrowers in the commercial real estate industry, representing approximately 65.3% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. The real estate consists primarily of owner-occupied properties, warehouse and other commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner's business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our level of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the related provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans have grown 8.2%, or $17.1 million, since December 31, 2006. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement more stringent underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. We have a high concentration of construction and development loans in our loan portfolio, which carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties. As of December 31, 2007, total construction and development loans amounted to $180.3 million, or 36.5%, of our total loan portfolio. Included in the $180.3 million was $34.7 million outstanding under construction loan facilities, or 19.3% of our construction and development loan portfolio, that were made to commercial construction developers. Construction and development loans generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on 30 the ultimate completion of the project or home and usually on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Specific risks include: •cost overruns; •mismanaged construction; •inferior or improper construction techniques; •economic changes or downturns during construction; •rising interest rates that may prevent sale of the property; and •failure to sell completed projects or units in a timely manner. The occurrence of any of the preceding risks could result in the deterioration of one or more of these loans which could significantly increase First National's percentage of non-performing assets. An increase in non-performing loans may result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the related provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on First National's financial condition and results of operations. A downturn in the real estate market in our market areas could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. A downturn in the real estate market could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the property collateralizing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase the allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Although we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilizes various portfolio management practices, our loan portfolio contains a number of real estate loans with relatively large balances. The deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and an increase in overall nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. We intend to expand our banking network over the next several years, not just in our current market areas of Spartanburg, Charleston, Greenville, Columbia, and Rock Hill but also in other fast-growing markets throughout South Carolina, and in contiguous states. We believe that to expand into new markets successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in the markets in which we expand will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from more established banks. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitor are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. The market for highly qualified banking professionals is competitive, and we cannot assure that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. 31 In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit, and retain talented personnel to manage new branches effectively and in a timely manner would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on key individuals, and the unexpected loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. Jerry L. Calvert, our president and chief executive officer, has substantial experience with our operations and has contributed significantly to our growth since our founding. If we lose Mr. Calvert's services, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success is dependent on the personal contacts and local experience of Mr. Calvert and other key management personnel in each of our market areas. Our success also depends in part on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as our ability to retain current key executive management personnel, including our chief financial officer, Kitty B. Payne, our retail banking manager, Robert W. Murdoch, Jr., and our chief lending officer, David H. Zabriskie. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these executive officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of the services of several of these key personnel could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects to the extent we are unable to replace such personnel. Our business strategy includes the continuation and successful management of significant growth, and if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively as we pursue our strategy, these failures could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to continue developing our business by pursuing a significant growth strategy primarily centered around a branching strategy. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. In order to execute our growth strategy successfully, we must, among other things, continue our loan growth, improve our profitability and utilize technology to enhance customer service and maximize deposit growth. In addition, our ability to successfully grow will depend on the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees and the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market. If we are unable to hire additional employees or if we are unable to retain our current employees, our staffing levels will be insufficient to support the planned growth, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or guarantee that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The building of market share through our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than our revenues. We intend to continue to build market share through our de novo branching strategy in addition to our acquisition strategy. We opened a new branch in downtown Charleston in April 2007 and relocated our Greenville branch, which originally opened in October 2006, to a permanent location at our new Greenville market headquarters in June 2007. We also opened a new branch in Greer, South Carolina in August 2007. We have received OCC approval and intend to open at least two new branches in 2008, 32 one in Lexington, South Carolina and one in York County, South Carolina. We may identify other branch locations and request approval from our banking regulators to open full-service branches. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches. New branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least one year or more. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until they reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of new branches. In addition, we may be unable to open any additional branches and, if we do open these branches, they may not be profitable. The lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio makes it difficult to assess the adequacy of our loan loss reserves accurately. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: •an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; •our historical loan loss experience; •evaluation of economic conditions; •regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and •the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. In addition, due to our rapid growth over the past several years and our limited operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio was originated recently. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as seasoning. As a result, a portfolio of more mature loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If charge-offs in future periods increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would decrease our net income and possibly our capital. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels as a result of our loan growth, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. 33 We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties and our financial condition could be adversely affected if it relies on misleading information. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, which we do not independently verify. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. Our small- to medium-sized business target markets may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected. An economic downturn, especially one affecting the market areas of Spartanburg, Charleston, Greenville, Rock Hill, or Columbia, could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the general economic conditions in our markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. An economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 89.2% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2007. If an economic downturn occurs in the economy as a whole, or in the market areas of Spartanburg, Charleston, Greenville, Rock Hill or Columbia, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, the value and liquidity of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans in our market areas could be adversely affected by an economic downturn. Real estate values in our market areas have risen substantially over the last several years. If the value of real estate decreases or does not continue to rise, our business could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies or markets. We often secure loans with real estate collateral. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 87.8% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively affected. An economic downturn, including a decline in the real estate market, could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. We may have higher loan losses than we have allowed for in our allowance for loan losses. Our loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses. Our average loan size continues to increase and reliance on our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. Approximately 34 72.2% of our loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of loan collateral and problems affecting the credit of our borrowers. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or even grow our business at all. As we continue to expand, it will become increasing difficult for us to replicate our historical earnings growth. Consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses and would not experience a proportionate decrease. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We rely on dividends from our bank as our primary source of funds. The primary sources of funds of our bank subsidiary are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include proceeds from Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of investment securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the OCC, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of branches. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain "well capitalized" and "well managed" for regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, and our ability to make acquisitions. 35 The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the effects of these changes on our business and profitability cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and expand our business through opening new branch offices. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public, and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations, and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Moreover, as a regulated entity, we can be requested by regulators to implement changes to our operations. We have addressed areas of regulatory concern, including interest rate risk, through the adoption of board resolutions and improved policies and procedures. Changes in federal laws could adversely affect our wholesale mortgage division. Changes in federal laws regarding the oversight of mortgage brokers and lenders could adversely affect our ability to originate, finance, and sell residential mortgage loans. The enactment of federal laws, such as licensing requirements for mortgage brokers, applicable to the types of mortgage loans originated could increase costs of operations and adversely affect origination volume, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operation. We face strong competition for customers in our market areas, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits. The banking business is highly competitive and the level of competition facing us may increase further. We experience competition in our markets from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as BB&T, Bank of America, and Wachovia with substantially greater access to capital and other resources. These institutions offer larger lending limits and some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. In new markets, we will also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. Our relatively smaller size can be a competitive disadvantage due to the lack of multi-state geographic diversification and the inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our markets may have to pay higher interest rates, as we have done in some marketing promotions in the past to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition to paying higher interest rates to attract deposits, we may need to find alternative funding sources to fund the growth in our loan portfolio. In 2007, deposit growth was not sufficient to fund our loan growth and we have used proceeds from the sale of our Series A Preferred Stock, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, out-of-market time deposits and principal and interest payments on available-for-sale securities to make up the difference. However, our borrowing ability is limited and we may be put in the position of choosing between slowing the growth of our loan portfolio or contraction in our net interest margin if we must pay higher rates for deposits and borrowings. 36 Our growth may require us to raise additional capital that may not be available when it is needed, or at all. Regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In the future, it may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital may not be raised, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we issue additional equity capital, its existing shareholders' interest would be diluted. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will continue to involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs of completing our audit and the costs related to maintaining and certifying internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We are evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, the trading price of our common stock could decline, our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer, and our common stock could ultimately be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. In this event, the liquidity of our common stock would be severely limited and the market price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. In addition, the rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors' and officers' liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We may identify a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting that may adversely affect our ability to properly account for non-routine transactions. As we have grown and expanded, we have added, and expect to continue to acquire or continue to add, businesses and other activities that complement our core retail and commercial banking functions. Such acquisitions or additions frequently involve complex operational and financial reporting issues that can influence management's internal control system. While we make every effort to thoroughly understand any new activity or acquired entity's business process and properly integrate it into our company, we can give no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our internal control over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved staff comments with the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 37 