D. RISK FACTORS We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below. Although we have established the Enterprise Risk Management system to identify, evaluate and manage risks, our business activities are subject to the following risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our business, revenues and profits fluctuate with changes in oil and gas prices Prices for crude oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, market uncertainty and various other factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to overall economic conditions, consumer demand for oil, political developments, world-wide geopolitical events, armed conflict and acts of terrorism, the ability of petroleum producing nations to set and maintain production levels and prices, the price and availability of other energy sources, domestic and foreign government regulations, and weather conditions. In addition, our typical contracts with gas buyers include provisions for periodic resets and adjustment formulas that depend on a basket of crude oil prices and inflation as well as various other factors. These resets and adjustment formulas can result in natural gas price fluctuations. Even relatively modest declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. Lower oil and gas prices may result in the write-off of higher cost reserves and other assets and may lower our earnings or cause losses. Lower oil and gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically and render existing contracts that we have entered into uneconomical. The oil and gas reserve estimates in this annual report may require substantial revision as a result of future drilling, testing, production and oil and gas price changes The reliability of reserve estimates depends on a number of factors, including the quality and quantity of technical and economic data, the prevailing oil and gas prices for our production, the production performance of reservoirs, extensive engineering judgments, and the fiscal regime in the PRC and overseas countries where we have operations or assets. 14 Table of Contents Many of the factors, assumptions and variables involved in estimating reserves are beyond our control and may prove to be incorrect over time. In addition, many of the factors involved in estimating reserves over which we do have control, such as the recovery factor estimates and the projected production decline rates, may also prove to be incorrect over time. Consequently, the results of drilling, testing and production and oil and gas price changes may require substantial upward or downward revisions in our initial reserve data. Any failure to replace reserves and develop our proved undeveloped reserves could adversely affect our business and our financial position Exploring for, developing and acquiring reserves is highly risky and capital intensive. Our exploration and development activities involve inherent risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs and the wells we drill may not be productive or not sufficiently productive to recover a portion or all of our investment. In addition, approximately 56.6% of our proved reserves were undeveloped as of December 31, 2014. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop these reserves in a timely and cost-effective manner. There are various risks in developing reserves, mainly including construction, operational, geophysical, geological and regulatory risks. Our future prospects largely depend on our capital expenditures, which are subject to various risks Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues, profit and cash flows depends upon continuous capital spending, which is subject to a number of contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These variables include: cash flows from operations, the availability and terms of external financing, our ability to execute our project plans and commence production on time, weather conditions, the availability of services and facilities, approvals required from the PRC and foreign governments for certain capital expenditures and investments, and economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and overseas where we have operations or assets. Therefore, our actual capital expenditures and investments in the future may differ significantly from our current planned amounts. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding for our operations or development plans, our business, revenues, profit and cash flows could be adversely affected. Any failure to implement our natural gas business strategy may adversely affect our business and financial position As part of our business strategy and to meet increasing market demand in China, we continue to expand our natural gas business. In addition to the risks that affect our business generally, this strategy involves certain risks and uncertainties, including our limited market share compared to PetroChina Company Limited, or PetroChina, and China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, or Sinopec, and the underdeveloped natural gas transportation and supply infrastructure and market in China. We expect that the gap between the market demand and supply for natural gas will continue to narrow down in the next few years and the supply may exceed the demand in certain regions, which may cause challenges to our natural gas business. We are evaluating the options to invest in CNOOC’s LNG projects in China. However, we have not decided whether to exercise these options. The options are subject to various conditions including certain governmental approvals, the prospects of such projects and, if applicable, independent shareholders’ approval. Mergers and acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and uncertainties, and we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from mergers and acquisitions In the past few years, we expanded our operations into Argentina, the U.S., Canada, Uganda, United Kingdom, Brazil and certain other countries through mergers and acquisitions. For example, we completed our significant acquisition of Nexen Inc. (“Nexen”), a Canada-based energy company previously listed on the TSX and the NYSE, in February 2013. We may continue to pursue opportunities for mergers and acquisitions to expand our business in the future. 15 Table of Contents In light of political instability, unexpected changes to fiscal regime and various other factors, there may be uncertainties with respect to the operations of those merged and acquired overseas assets. In particular, we may face increasing exploration and environmental risks arising from Nexen’s unconventional resources development, including oil sands and shale gas. The relatively high production cost of Nexen’s oil sands operations may negatively affect our overall profitability. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence and inheritance of debts and other liabilities, assumption of potential legal liabilities in respect of the acquired businesses, and incurrence of impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, if any of the acquired businesses fails to perform as we expect, we may be required to recognize a significant impairment charge, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, we may face other risks and uncertainties as we become subject to additional regulatory requirements as a result of the acquisition of Nexen. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated economic return. Also, the increase in the scale of our operations may increase our operational risks. Achieving the advantages of the Nexen acquisition will depend partly on the efficient combination of the activities of the Company and Nexen, two companies that functioned independently and were incorporated in different countries, with geographically dispersed operations and with different business cultures. The integration process involves inherent costs and uncertainties. We expect the acquisition of Nexen will expand our existing business and assets and create sustainable growth opportunities, synergies and other benefits. However, our anticipated benefits may not develop. In addition, implementation of the acquisition and the successful integration of Nexen will also require management time and attention, as well as those employees with the appropriate skill sets for the tasks associated with such integration. The integration process may also adversely affect our profitability because we will incur additional costs, such as depreciation and employee costs, during this process. Any failures, material delays or unexpected costs of the integration process could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. CNOOC largely controls us and we regularly enter into related party transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates CNOOC indirectly owned or controlled 64.44% of our shares as of March 31, 2015. As a result, CNOOC is able to control the composition of the board of directors of our company, or our Board, determine the timing and amount of our dividend payments and otherwise control us. If CNOOC takes actions that favor its interests over ours, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. In addition, we regularly enter into transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates. Some of our transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates constitute connected transactions under The Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, or the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules. Furthermore, these connected transactions are subject to the review by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and may also be subject to the prior approval of our independent shareholders. For example, we obtained the independent shareholders’ approval in respect of certain continuing connected transactions under a comprehensive framework agreement with CNOOC and its affiliates on November 27, 2013. If we do not obtain these approvals, we will not be allowed to effect these transactions and our business operations and then the financial condition could be adversely affected. Under current PRC law, CNOOC has the exclusive right to enter into PSCs with foreign enterprises for the petroleum resources exploitation in offshore China. Although CNOOC has undertaken to us that it will transfer all of its rights and obligations under any new PSCs to us, except those relating to its administrative functions, the interests of CNOOC in entering into PSCs with foreign enterprises may differ from our interests, especially with respect to the criteria for determining whether, and on what terms, to enter into PSCs. Our future business development may be adversely affected if CNOOC does not enter into new PSCs on terms that are acceptable to us. 16 Table of Contents Our business performance relies heavily on our sales to large domestic customers and a substantial drop in such sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations We sell a significant proportion of our production to Sinopec, PetroChina and CNOOC-affiliated companies. However, we currently do not have long-term crude oil sales contracts with these customers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if any of them significantly reduced their crude oil purchases from us. We may have limited control over our investments in joint ventures and our operations with partners Quite a few of our operations are conducted with partners or in joint ventures in which we may have limited ability to influence or control their operation or future development. Our limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such joint ventures could materially and adversely affect the realization of our target returns on capital and lead to unexpected future costs. Blowout or other incidents may result in platform explosions, fire accidents and oil spills Our operations are mainly conducted in challenging or environmentally sensitive locations, in which the consequences of a blowout, spill, explosion, fire or other incidents could be more severe than in other locations. Although we have adopted standard workflow procedures and various measures to control the risks of blowout or other incidents, we cannot ensure that we could avoid the potential losses caused by blowout or other incidents. If one or more blowout or other incidents occur, platform explosions and fire accidents caused by such incidents may result in casualties, property losses and environmental damages, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We maintain various insurance policies for our operations against certain types of potential losses. For detailed information on our insurance coverage, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Operating Hazards and Uninsured Risks.” However, our ability to insure against our risks is limited by the availability of relevant insurance products in the market. In addition, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover any losses that we may incur, or that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our existing insurance policies timely or at all. If any of our losses is not covered by our insurance policies, or if the insurance compensation is less than our losses or not paid timely, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We conduct exploration and development in deepwater areas in both offshore China and overseas by cooperating with our partners and by ourselves. Operations in deepwater may require a significant amount of time between the discovery and the initial production, thus increasing the risks involved in these operations. Also, operations in deepwater are more difficult, risky and costly than those in shallower water and are subject to certain risks including well control and other catastrophic events. The consequences of blowouts and other catastrophic events occurring in deepwater operations can be more difficult, uncertain and time-consuming to remedy. Extreme weather conditions may have a material adverse impact on us and could result in losses that are not covered by insurance Our exploration, development and production activities can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, which could result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, damage to our properties, cessation of activities, delay of project plans, shareholders lawsuits, government penalty, and increases in costs of drilling, completing and operating wells. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not maintain business interruption insurance for all of our oil and gas fields. We may suffer material losses resulting from uninsurable or uninsured risks or insufficient insurance coverage. 17 Table of Contents The current or future activities of our controlling shareholder, CNOOC, or its affiliates in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions could result in negative media and investor attention to us and possible imposition of sanctions on CNOOC, which could materially and adversely affect our shareholders We cannot predict the interpretation or implementation of government policy at the U.S. federal, state or local levels with respect to any current or future activities by CNOOC or its affiliates in countries or with individuals or entities that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. Similarly, we cannot predict whether U.S. sanctions will be further tightened, or the impact that such actions may have on CNOOC. It is possible that the U.S. could subject CNOOC to sanctions due to these activities. Certain U.S. state and local governments and colleges have restrictions on the investment of public funds or endowment funds, respectively, in companies that are members of corporate groups with activities in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, such as Iran and Sudan. It is possible that the activities of CNOOC or its affiliates may affect the investment in our shares by such U.S. state and local governments and colleges. It is possible that, as a result of activities by CNOOC or its affiliates in countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, we may be subject to negative media or investor attention, which may distract management, consume internal resources and affect investors’ perception of our company. In recent years, the U.S. Government has implemented a number of sanctions targeting non-U.S. companies that engage in certain Iran-related transactions. A number of U.S. statutes, Executive Orders and regulations authorize the imposition of sanctions on companies that engage in, among other things, certain activities related to Iran’s energy, petrochemical, shipping or shipbuilding sectors, and in certain instances, on their parent companies. It is possible that the U.S. Government could determine that CNOOC or its affiliates engage in activities targeted by U.S. sanctions. If the U.S. President determined that CNOOC or one of its affiliates engaged in targeted activities, CNOOC and/or its affiliate could be subject to U.S. sanctions, which range from restrictions on U.S. exports or bank financing to outright blocking of CNOOC or its affiliate’s property within U.S. jurisdiction. If the most extreme sanction, blocking, were applied to CNOOC’s property, including controlled subsidiaries, we could be prohibited from engaging in business activities in the U.S. or with U.S. individuals or entities, and U.S. transactions in our securities and distributions to U.S. individuals and entities with respect to our securities could also be prohibited. As required by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added a disclosure requirement to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are providing certain information regarding our non-controlled affiliates’ activities. To our knowledge, in 2014, China Oilfield Services Limited (COSL), one of our non-controlled affiliates, continued to provide certain drilling and other related services in Iran in relation to renewed subcontracting agreements entered into in 2009, as it did in 2013. We cannot predict at this time whether U.S. sanctions will be imposed on any of our affiliates. Our business and financial condition may be adversely affected by a severe and prolonged global economic downturn and adverse economic conditions The global economy has recovered moderately from the recession following the 2008 financial market disruptions and the European sovereign debt crisis. However, concerns about the systemic impact of a prolonged recession and adverse economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The complex economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility levels. We cannot predict the short- and long-term impacts of these events on our business and financial condition, which could be materially and adversely affected. Our unconventional oil and gas operations carry additional risks and uncertainties Oil sands, shale oil and gas and coalbed methane (“CBM”) are unconventional oil and gas resources produced through the application of relatively new and expensive technologies. As a result, our unconventional oil and gas operations are subject to the challenges of immature technology and also expose us to higher environmental compliance standards and requirements. In the event of any failure to comply with such standards and requirements, such failure may lead to public concerns on our unconventional oil and gas operations, which may also harm our corporate reputation and profitability. 18 Table of Contents Our projects may not be completed on time or within budget We are involved with a variety of projects at any given time, including exploration and development projects, and the construction and expansion of projects facilities. Project delays may adversely affect expected revenues and cost overruns may adversely affect project economics. Our ability to complete projects on time and within budget depends on many factors beyond our control, including the need for government and regulatory approvals, especially the approvals from environmental agencies, the availability of equipment and personnel, weather, accidents, equipment breakdown, unexpected or uncontrollable increases in the costs of materials or labor and processing capacity. Oil and gas transportation may expose us to the risk of financial loss and damaged reputation Oil and gas transportation involves certain risks, which may expose us to the risk of financial loss and damaged reputation. Our oil and gas transportation involves marine, land and pipeline transportation, which are subject to hazards such as capsizing, collision, acts of piracy and damage or loss from severe weather conditions, explosion, and oil and gas spills and leakages. These hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, risk of financial loss and damaged reputation. We may not be insured against all of these risks and uninsured losses and liabilities arising from these hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pipeline and export infrastructure in North America is limited An increase in the supply of crude oil and natural gas from unconventional sources in North America has reduced commodity prices in North America relative to many other markets. The increased supply in North America is expected to fill existing North American pipeline infrastructure. Without new transportation and export infrastructure, the current transportation network in North America may not be able to accommodate the increased volumes of crude oil and natural gas expected from the development of unconventional oil and gas, including oil and gas produced from our oil sands and shale gas properties in western Canada. This, in turn, could delay the development of our oil and gas reserves in western Canada. In addition, North America has limited export infrastructure and without new export infrastructure, we may be required to sell our production into the North American markets at lower prices than are available in other markets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our lands in western Canada could be subject to aboriginal claims Aboriginal peoples in Canada have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada, including the lands on which our shale gas and oil sands interests, and those of most other oil sands and shale gas operators in Alberta and British Columbia of Canada, are located. As a result, aboriginal consultation on surface activities is required and may result in timing uncertainties or delays of future development activities. Such claims, if successful, could have a significant adverse effect on our oil sands and shale gas developments in Canada. The energy marketing operations of Nexen expose us to the risk of trading losses Nexen has an energy marketing business, which primarily markets Nexen’s proprietary crude oil and natural gas production and also engages in market optimization activities including the purchase and sale of third-party production. The energy marketing operations of Nexen expose us to the risk of financial losses from various sources, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Nexen’s energy marketing team maintains a portfolio comprised of long and short physical and financial positions, which may be significant in size or number at any time. This portfolio of positions is managed based on a trading thesis for expected future pricing levels and trends in forward or regional markets. Unanticipated volatility in commodity price levels and trends upon which those positions are based may cause a position to decrease in value. The transportation and storage assets and contracts undertaken by Nexen’s energy marketing business may decrease in value due to changes in temporal and regional commodity pricing. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Petroleum Industry The oil and natural gas industries are very competitive We compete in the PRC and international markets with national oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies and various other independent oil and gas companies for oil and gas properties or leases, customers, capital financing and business opportunities, including desirable oil and gas prospects. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate oil and gas properties. Competition may result in shortage of these resources, customers or opportunities, and also an over-supply of oil and gas, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Political and security risks and changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our overseas operation We currently have operations and assets in various foreign countries and regions, including Indonesia, Brazil, Iraq, Australia, Nigeria, Uganda, Argentina, the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and certain other countries, and may expand our operations into other countries to further enhance our reserve base and diversify our geographic risk profile. Some of the countries in which we have operations may be considered politically and economically unstable. A portion of our revenue is derived from operations in these countries. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including, civil unrest and general strikes, political instability, risk of war and acts of terrorism, changes in governmental policies or social instability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting these foreign nations which are not within our control, including, among other things, a change in crude oil or natural gas pricing policy, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions and contracts, cost recovery, taxation policies, foreign exchange and repatriation restrictions, changing political conditions and currency controls. In addition, the operations and assets that we currently have or in the future may have in foreign countries and regions may be materially and adversely affected by trade or economic sanctions that may be imposed by other countries due to their deteriorated relations with each other. Tax and fiscal policies change may have an adverse effect on our financial performance Our financial performance is subject to the tax and fiscal regime in host countries in which we operate. Any changes on the tax and fiscal regime in host countries in which we operate may increase our tax burden and have an adverse effect on our financial performance. For example, in September 2014, OECD launched the “Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project” to enhance multilateral cooperation, pursuant to which countries worldwide will amend their tax laws and tax treaties and strengthen their supervision on the corporate tax planning and transfer pricing activities, which may cause risks to the Company on transfer pricing activities. War and acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect us We have operations and assets in various countries and regions, including Indonesia, Brazil, Iraq, Australia, Nigeria, Uganda, Argentina, the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and certain other countries, some of which are deemed to be with a high degree of political risk. We face the risks of kidnapping, damage to property and business interruption caused by terrorism activities and strikes. Acts of terrorism and strikes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We are required to obtain government or other regulatory approvals in order to operate Our oil and gas operations require approvals from domestic or various international, federal, state, provincial, territorial and local governmental authorities in order to meet the requirement of laws and regulations designed to govern the activities of oil and gas in the process through exploration, development and production. These laws and regulations may impose significant liabilities on a failure to comply with their requirements including the possibility of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, cancellation or suspension of permits or authorizations, investigations or other proceedings. If we are unable to obtain any necessary approvals, our business, financial condition, reputation and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be penalized if we fail to comply with existing or future environmental laws and regulations Our business is subject to environmental protection laws and regulations in the PRC, as well as other jurisdictions where we operate. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may become increasingly strict and have an increasing impact on our operations. Our compliance with such laws or regulations may require us to incur significant capital expenditures or other obligations or liabilities, which could create a substantial financial burden on us. Furthermore, these jurisdictions may impose fees and fines for the discharge of waste substances or serious environmental pollution, and authorize a government, at its discretion, to close or suspend any facility which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure operations causing environmental damage. We have established an enterprise risk management system to identify, evaluate and manage the risks that we face. In addition, to help address various health, safety, security, environmental and operational risks, we have established a comprehensive management system to improve our employees’ awareness of our health, safety and environmental policies in our business operations and strengthen their skills of risk identification and risk management. We also continuously focus on workplace safety and prevention of oil spills or other adverse environmental events. However, there can be no assurance that our management systems and controls will function as intended at all times. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our management systems and controls cannot adequately identify all process safety, personal safety and environmental risks or provide effective mitigations, or that our operations will not be able to conform with our management systems and controls at all times. Risks Relating to the PRC Changes in PRC laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operation We are the largest producer of offshore crude oil and natural gas in the PRC. The PRC government exercises control over the PRC petroleum industry, including licensing, exploring, producing, distributing, pricing, taxing, importing, exporting and allocating of various resources. We have benefited from various favorable PRC government policies, laws and regulations that have been enacted to encourage the development of the offshore petroleum industry. We cannot guarantee that the legal and fiscal regimes affecting our businesses will remain substantially unchanged or that we will continue to benefit from favorable PRC government policies. In addition, existing PRC regulations require us to obtain various PRC government licenses and other approvals, including in some cases approvals for amendments and extensions of existing licenses and approvals to conduct exploration and development activities off the shores of China. If we are unable to obtain any necessary approvals, our reserves and production would be adversely affected. Government control of currency conversion and future movements in exchange rates may adversely affect our operations and financial condition 21 Table of Contents A portion of our Renminbi revenue may need to be converted into other currencies by our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC, CNOOC China Limited, to meet our substantial requirements for foreign currencies, including: debt service on foreign currency denominated debt, overseas acquisitions of oil and gas properties, purchases of imported equipment, and payment of dividends declared in respect of shares held by international investors. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments with respect to foreign currency denominated obligations, are subject to the approval requirements of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. The value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may cause an increase in cost for imported equipment and materials. In addition, the depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may cause an increase in our debt repayment burden, since all of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars. Certain legal restrictions on dividend distribution may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows We are a holding company. Our businesses are owned and conducted through various wholly owned subsidiaries, including CNOOC China Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC. Accordingly, our future cash flows will consist principally of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Our PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us is subject to PRC laws and regulations. For example, legal restrictions in the PRC permit payment of dividends only out of profits determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Substantially all our dividend payments result from dividends paid to us as a holding company by CNOOC China Limited. CNOOC China Limited must follow the laws and regulations of the PRC and its articles of association in determining its dividends. As a wholly foreign owned enterprise in China, CNOOC China Limited should provide for a reserve fund and staff and workers’ bonus and welfare fund, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distributions according to the prevailing accounting rules and regulations in the PRC. Therefore, there is a risk that we may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flows due to these restrictions on dividend distribution. If the settlement recently reached between the SEC and the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms (including the Chinese affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm), concerning the manner in which the SEC may seek access to audit working papers from audits in China of US-listed companies, is not or cannot be performed in a manner acceptable to authorities in China and the US, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Starting in 2011 all Mainland Chinese audit firms practising before the SEC (including the mainland Chinese affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm and those of the other "Big Four" networks) were affected by a conflict between US and Chinese laws. Specifically, the SEC and the PCAOB sought to obtain from the Chinese accounting firms access to their audit work papers and related documents from audits in mainland China of the operations of certain US-listed companies. The Chinese accounting firms were, however, advised and directed that under China law they could not respond directly to the US regulators on those requests, and that requests by foreign regulators for access to such papers in China had to be channelled through the China Securities Regulatory Commission ("CSRC"). In late 2012 this impasse led the SEC to commence administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the mainland Chinese affiliates of the "Big Four" accounting firms (including the mainland Chinese affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm). On February 6, 2015, before a review by the Commissioner had taken place, the Chinese accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC whereby the proceedings were stayed. Under the settlement, the SEC accepts that future requests by the SEC for the production of documents will normally be made to the CSRC. The Chinese accounting firms will receive requests matching those under Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002., and are required to abide by a detailed set of procedures with respect to such requests, which in substance require them to facilitate production via the CSRC. If they fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the Chinese accounting firms depending on the nature of the failure. Remedies for any future noncompliance could include, as appropriate, an automatic six-month bar on a single firm’s performance of certain audit work, commencement of a new proceeding against a firm, or in extreme cases the resumption of the recently-stayed proceeding against all four firms. The SEC also reserves the right to resume those proceedings in circumstances where, notwithstanding the accounting firms' compliance with the procedures in the settlement agreement, the SEC does not receive a production of documents which it considers satisfactory (for example because of action or inaction by the Chinese authorities). 22 Table of Contents In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC whose work could contribute to SEC filings, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about any such future proceedings against these accounting firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If the Chinese affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ordinary shares from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 