D. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports and documents submitted to, or filed with, the SEC, among other factors, could affect our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have a history of losses and we may not be profitable in the future. In 2005 and 2008, we incurred net losses of $157.9 million and $92.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,208.2 million. In view of the current crisis in the financial markets and the deteriorating global economy, we anticipate that the business environment within the semiconductor industry will be very challenging in 2009. If the current crisis continues or the global economy deteriorates further, it is likely that we will incur a net loss and our accumulated deficit will increase in 2009 and beyond. We have a high level of debt. If we are unable to make interest and principal payments on our debt, it could seriously harm our company. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1,760.3 million of long-term debt outstanding, of which $157.5 million and $542.2 million of principal payments are due in 2009 and 2010, respectively. We are also obligated to redeem our outstanding convertible redeemable preference shares at the aggregate redemption price of $283.5 million at maturity in 2010, unless they are redeemed, converted or purchased and canceled prior to maturity. Our high level of debt and the covenants contained in our financing documents, such as financial, shareholding and other restrictive covenants which are customary in loan documents, could have adverse consequences on our company. For example, they could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to pursue our growth plans and technology upgrades or migrations; • require us to seek lenders’ consent prior to paying dividends on our ordinary shares; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes. The term “capital expenditures” means the amount we paid or will pay during a particular period for property, plant and equipment; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the semiconductor industry; and • limit our ability to incur additional borrowings or raise additional financing through equity or debt instruments. 3 Table of Contents If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or obtain additional financing, if necessary, to fund our liquidity needs, we may not be able to make interest and principal payments due on our debt. Furthermore, as a result of the current crisis in the financial markets and deteriorating global economy, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These factors may adversely affect our ability to refinance maturing liabilities, including the significant amount of our debt maturing in 2010, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures, research and development costs, operational and other related costs in connection with our growth plans and may require additional financing that may not be available. Our business and the nature of our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the importance of economies of scale, which require us to make substantial capital expenditures, leading to a high level of fixed costs. We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in connection with our growth plans and technology upgrades and migrations. For example, during 2006, 2007 and 2008, we made substantial capital expenditures (excluding the acquisition of assets from our business combination) of $554.8 million, $758.4 million and $576.0 million, respectively, and we incurred research and development, or R&D, costs of $152.8 million, $159.8 million and $177.9 million, respectively. We expect our total cash outflow for capital expenditures in 2009 to be approximately $375 million. For more details on our capital expenditure plans for 2009, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We anticipate that from time to time we also may expand and add equipment to increase the capacity of our existing fabs, and this may require additional financing. We also expect our R&D expenditures in 2009 to be approximately $178 million. Our capital and R&D expenditures will be made in advance of sales. Given the fixed nature of the costs incurred in our business, we may incur losses if our revenue does not adequately offset the level of R&D expenses and depreciation resulting from these planned expenditures, as occurred in 2005 and 2008. Additionally, our actual expenditures may exceed our planned expenditures for a variety of reasons, including changes in our growth plans, our process technologies, market conditions, customer requirements and other factors. We may require additional financing to fund our future growth plans and technology upgrades and migrations, including to fund the capital expenditures to equip and expand the capacities of our various fabs. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available or, if available, that such financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or that any additional financing will not be dilutive to our shareholders or creditors. Further, if current market conditions continue or deteriorate further, it is likely that we will continue to incur significant net losses and our accumulated deficit will increase in 2009. This will in turn likely adversely affect our ability to meet certain financial covenants contained in our loan agreements and thereby restrict our ability to access our unutilized credit facilities or the capital markets to meet our liquidity needs. The inability to fund our planned capital expenditures and R&D expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate our desired level of business in future periods. Failure to maintain high capacity utilization, optimize the technology mix of our semiconductor wafer production, continuously improve our device yields and maintain the average selling prices of, or avoid or mitigate the downward pricing pressure on, our products would seriously harm our prospects and financial condition. Among the key factors that affect our profit margin are our ability to: • maintain high capacity utilization; • optimize the technology mix of our semiconductor wafer production; • continuously improve our device yields; and • maintain the average selling prices, or ASPs, of our products. The term “capacity utilization” means the actual number of semiconductor wafers we have processed at a fabrication facility in relation to the total number of wafers we have the capacity to process. Where we refer to capacity utilization in this document, such capacity utilization includes the utilization of our allocated capacity with SMP. Our capacity utilization affects our operating and financial results because a large percentage of our operating costs are fixed. Our average utilization rate in 2004 was 80% driven primarily by strong shipments during the first half of 2004, partially offset by market weakness in the second half of 2004 due to excess inventories held in semiconductor companies and the softening of certain end markets. This market weakness continued into the first half of 2005 but was partially offset by improving market conditions and the ramp up of 90 nanometer, or nm, shipments in the second half of 2005, resulting in an average capacity utilization of 70% for 2005. Our average capacity utilization increased to 77% in 2006, due primarily to higher utilization rates resulting from the improving market conditions during the first half of 2006, partially offset by our customers experiencing excess inventory and seasonally weaker than usual market conditions in the second half of 4 Table of Contents 2006. In 2007, our average capacity utilization increased to 79% due to shipment growth in 0.13 micron, or um, and above technologies. This shipment growth continued into the first half of 2008 but was partially offset by the deterioration in the global economy in the second half of 2008, in particular the fourth quarter of 2008 with a capacity utilization of 59%, resulting in an average capacity utilization of 79% for 2008. We cannot assure you that market conditions will improve in 2009 and beyond. If the current downturn in the semiconductor industry persists for a prolonged period, our prospects and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Other factors potentially affecting capacity utilization rates are the complexity and mix of the wafers produced, overall industry conditions, operating efficiencies, the level of customer orders, mechanical failure, disruption of operations due to expansion of operations or relocation of equipment and fire or natural disaster. We are unable to control many of the factors which may affect capacity utilization rates. Because the selling price of wafers varies significantly, the mix of wafers produced could affect revenue and profitability. The selling price of a wafer is determined by the complexity of the device on the wafer. Production of devices with higher level functionality and greater system-level integration requires more manufacturing steps than the production of less complex devices, resulting in higher wafer selling prices. However, increasing the complexity of devices that we manufacture does not necessarily lead to increased profitability because the higher wafer selling prices for such devices may be offset by depreciation and other costs associated with an increase in capital expenditures needed to manufacture such devices. The term “device yields” means the actual number of usable semiconductor devices on a semiconductor wafer in relation to the total number of devices on the wafer. Our device yields affect our ability to attract and retain customers and may also directly affect the selling prices of our products. If we are unable to maintain high capacity utilization, optimize the technology mix of our wafer production or maintain and improve our device yields, we may not be able to achieve our targeted profit margin, in which case our financial condition could be seriously harmed and the market price of our securities could fall. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess inventory which could reduce our profit margin. We generally start production of wafers based on purchase orders received from customers. However in some instances, to accommodate anticipated demand, we may optimize our capacity usage and effectively manage the allocation of available resources by starting production based on managements forecasts of such customer demand. Any changes in these forecasts of customer demand may result in us holding excess inventory, which if ultimately deemed to be unsaleable may reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. We have received grants from various agencies of the Government of Singapore. Such grants may not be disbursed to us if the conditions attached to these grants are not complied with. We have received grants from various agencies of the Government of Singapore. The amounts available under these grants relate to a portion of depreciation expenses arising from our R&D related capital expenditures and for certain materials, training and staffing costs associated with some of our process technology development and staff training programs. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, $1.9 million, $8.5 million and $14.4 million, respectively, of such grants were disbursed to us. These grants are disbursed in connection with the research, development and training carried out in Singapore based on the terms of the respective grants, the amount of qualifying expenditures incurred and the achievement of the conditions attached to the grants. We expect that the amount of grants we may be eligible to receive from the Government of Singapore will be lower in 2009, as compared with 2008. We regularly assess the likelihood of achieving the conditions attached to these grants. While we believe we have taken adequate steps to obtain reasonable assurance that these conditions will be achieved, we cannot assure you that such grants will be disbursed to us nor that we will continue to receive such grants in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve all the conditions attached to the grants or that, if we do not achieve all the conditions, we will not be required to refund any of such grants previously disbursed to us. Our investments in private enhanced cash funds are subject to risks which may affect the liquidity of these investments and cause losses. We have an investment in the Fund, which is managed by an external financial institution and consists primarily of corporate debt, mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities. The Fund is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the current crises in global financial markets that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. Due to the nature of the securities that the Fund invests in, the Fund’s underlying securities have been exposed to adverse market conditions that have 5 Table of Contents affected the value of the collateral and the liquidity of the Fund. As a result, in December 2007, the investment manager of the Fund halted demand redemptions and announced its intention to liquidate the Fund. The investment in the Fund, which was classified as a cash equivalent since the time of placement in 2003, was reclassified to other investments as of December 31, 2007. The carrying amount of the Fund, which is equal to the fair value of our pro-rata share of investment in the Fund was $89.3 million and $19.6 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We received cash proceeds of $8.8 million and $64.2 million in further distributions from the Fund in 2007 and 2008, respectively. We recorded an other-than-temporary impairment loss of $1.1 million and $4.6 million for 2007 and 2008, respectively. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies — Other Investments” for more information about this loss and our determination of the value of the Fund as of December 31, 2008. If the credit and liquidity issues in the markets relating to our investment and its underlying securities continue or worsen, we may recognize further losses in the value of our remaining investment in the Fund. Additional losses could have a material adverse effect on our results. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in the future if we determine that our long-lived assets are impaired. We review long-lived assets that are held and used for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We are required to make judgments and assumptions in identifying those events or changes in circumstances that may trigger impairment. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of our long-lived assets was $2,893.8 million. Although no impairment charges were recorded on our long-lived assets in 2006, 2007 and 2008, it is possible that our determination that these long-lived assets are not impaired could change in the future should the global economy continue to deteriorate. Risks Related to Our Operations The current crisis in the global financial markets and deteriorating global economy could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As widely reported, the global financial markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruptions in recent months, which have severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. There can be no assurance that there will be no further deterioration in the financial markets and global economy. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In view of the current uncertain economic environment, our customers have become focused on doing business with foundry providers with a sound balance sheet, which may create additional risks for our business. Further, our customers may have difficulties obtaining adequate capital to finance their ongoing business and operations, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, our suppliers could experience credit or other financial difficulties that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary raw materials or equipment. In addition, decreased business levels may cause our suppliers to significantly reduce their production capabilities or cease operations, which may also adversely affect our ability to obtain certain components or increase our production costs in the future. Continued crisis in the financial markets, a deteriorating global economy and prolonged declines in consumer and business spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access our unutilized credit facilities or the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current crisis in the global financial markets and their impact on the global economy. If the current crisis in the financial markets continues or worsens, or if there is further deterioration in the global economy, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The downgrades by corporate credit rating agencies of our corporate credit ratings could affect our ability to raise funds from the public and may seriously harm our financial condition. In August 2008, Fitch Ratings and Standard and Poor’s, or S&P, revised our corporate credit rating from BBB- to BB+ and in February 2009, S&P further revised our corporate and senior unsecured bond ratings from BB+ to BB and assigned us a negative outlook. In December 2008, Moody’s revised our corporate and senior unsecured bond ratings from Baa3 to Ba1. The revisions in our ratings reflect expectations regarding our financial and competitive conditions and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to further credit rating downgrades, particularly in view of the crisis in the financial markets and the deteriorating global economy. Our debt agreements do not have any triggers in respect of credit rating downgrades that would accelerate the maturity of our debt. However, we may be required to commence repayment of our debt earlier than the scheduled repayment dates set out in certain of our debt agreements if certain production milestones are achieved as specified under these debt agreements. These production milestones relate to the production capacity and shipment of a certain number of wafers over a given time period as specified in the debt agreements. Credit rating 6 Table of Contents downgrades, depending on their severity, could affect our ability to access or renew existing financing or to obtain additional financing as we may require from time to time depending on the pace of our future growth and technology upgrades and migration. Credit rating downgrades could also affect our ability to access the capital markets in the future on favorable terms or at all. As a result, our ability to compete effectively in our business relative to our competitors with higher credit ratings could be affected. Where additional financing could be obtained, there can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available on terms satisfactory to us or that such additional financing will not be dilutive to our shareholders or creditors. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the periodic overcapacity that results from this, as well as any rapid change in the end markets we serve, may seriously harm our company. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical. The semiconductor industry has, at various times, experienced significant economic downturns characterized by production overcapacity, reduced product demand and rapid erosion of the ASPs for our semiconductor products. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand, as we and our competitors have done. As a result, periods of overcapacity in the semiconductor industry have frequently followed periods of increased demand when capacity increments outpaced that of demand. We expect this pattern to be repeated in the future. In addition, the markets for semiconductors are characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and fluctuations in end-user demand. Our average utilization rate in 2004 was 80% driven primarily by strong shipments during the first half of 2004, partially offset by market weakness in the second half of 2004 due to excess inventories held in the semiconductor companies and the softening of certain end markets. This market weakness continued into the first half of 2005 but was partially offset by improving market conditions and the ramp up of 90nm shipments in the second half of 2005, resulting in an average capacity utilization of 70% for 2005. Our average capacity utilization increased to 77% in 2006, due primarily to higher utilization rates resulting from the improving market conditions during the first half of 2006, partially offset by our customers experiencing excess inventory and seasonally weaker than usual market conditions in the second half of 2006. In 2007, our average capacity utilization increased to 79% due to shipment growth in 0.13um and above technologies. This shipment growth continued into the first half of 2008 but was partially offset by the deterioration in the global economy in the second half of 2008, in particular the fourth quarter of 2008 with a capacity utilization of 59%, resulting in an average capacity utilization of 79% for 2008. We cannot assure you that market conditions will improve in 2009 and beyond. If the current downturn in the semiconductor industry persists for a prolonged period, our prospects and financial condition could be seriously harmed. We depend on our technology partners to advance our portfolio of process technologies. Enhancing our manufacturing process technologies is critical to our ability to provide services for our customers. We intend to continue to advance our process technologies through our internal R&D efforts and through alliances with leading semiconductor companies, and we are dependent on these partners for this advancement. Our technology alliance with International Business Machines, or IBM, began in November 2002 with a joint development agreement to jointly develop and standardize 90 nm bulk complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, processes for foundry chip production on 300-mm silicon wafers. Our technology alliance with IBM has extended since November 2002 to include the development of 65nm, 45nm, 32nm and 22nm bulk CMOS process technologies as well as to include new technology partners in the joint development activities. As of December 31, 2008, our technology partners in the joint development activities for 32nm process technologies are IBM, Infineon Technologies AG, or Infineon, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., or Samsung, Toshiba Corporation, or Toshiba, and STMicroelectronics N.V., or STMicroelectronics, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, and NEC Electronics Corporation, or NEC; and our technology partners in the joint development activities for 22nm process technologies are IBM, Samsung, STMicroelectronics and AMD. Please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business Overview — Research and Development.” We depended on our joint development agreements with our technology partners for faster introduction of 90nm, 65nm and 45nm bulk CMOS process technologies and we continue to depend on our joint development agreements with our technology partners for faster introduction of 32nm and 22nm bulk CMOS process technologies. If we encounter problems in the successful implementation of our joint development agreements with these technology partners, our strategy of targeting “first source” business and decreasing the time it takes us to bring the newest technologies to market would be adversely affected and it could seriously harm our company. “First source” business refers to being selected as the first manufacturing source for customers’ new product innovations. We also do not have full control over the participants that may be added to the joint development alliances or the licensees who may have access to the jointly developed process technologies and this may affect the competitive position of our company. Although the changes in our technology partnerships that we have experienced so far have not had a significant impact on our company’s performance, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case. If we are unable to continue these technology alliances on mutually beneficial economic terms, if we are unable to 7 Table of Contents comply with any restrictions contained in our technology alliance agreements, or if we are unable to enter into new technology alliances with other leading semiconductor companies, we may not be able to continue providing our customers with leading-edge process technologies, which could seriously harm our company. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our net revenue. We have been largely dependent on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 76% of our net revenue for both 2007 and 2008. Our top five customers collectively accounted for approximately 63% of our net revenue in 2008, compared with approximately 61% of our net revenue in the previous year. Our top two customers, Broadcom and Qualcomm Global Trading, Inc, each contributed more than 10% of our net revenue in 2008. As the end markets we serve are typically cyclical, our top customers may change from period to period depending on the strength of various market sectors. We expect that we will continue to be dependent for a significant portion of our revenue upon a relatively limited number of customers, which from time to time may be concentrated in particular end markets, as a result of which we will be exposed to the volatility of those markets. Depending on a relatively small number of customers can also subject us to concentration problems that can negatively affect our fab utilization, which can in turn affect our revenue and results of operations, such as was experienced in certain periods in 2007 for our 90nm and below process technologies. Customer concentration is more significant for our leading-edge process technologies. If those customers that we are dependent on experience slowdown or are affected by the economic downturn, our company could also be seriously harmed. We cannot assure you that revenue generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Loss or cancellation of business from, significant changes in scheduled deliveries to, quality or reliability issues raised by, or decreases in the prices of services sold to, any of these customers could seriously harm our company. We may not be able to implement new technology as it becomes available which may affect our ability to produce advanced products at competitive prices. The semiconductor industry is rapidly developing and the technology used is constantly evolving. If we do not anticipate the technology evolution and rapidly adopt new and innovative technology, we may not be able to produce sufficiently advanced products to meet market demand or produce such products at competitive prices. There is a risk that our competitors may adopt new technology before we do, resulting in our loss of market share. If we do not continue to produce the most advanced products at competitive prices, our customers may use the services of our competitors instead of our services, which could seriously harm our company. A decrease in demand and ASPs for end-use applications of semiconductor products such as communications equipment, personal computers, computer peripherals and consumer products may significantly decrease the demand for our services and may result in a decrease in our revenue and gross profit margin. A significant percentage of our revenue is derived from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for communications equipment, personal computers, computer peripherals and consumer products. Any significant decrease in the demand for communications equipment, personal computers, computer peripherals or consumer products may decrease the demand for our services and could seriously harm our company. In addition, the historical and continuing trend of declining ASPs in these end markets places downward pressure on the prices of the components that are used in such equipment. If the ASPs of such equipment continue to decrease, the downward pricing pressure on components produced by our company may reduce our revenue and therefore reduce our gross profit margin significantly. Our ability to successfully collaborate with electronic design automation, intellectual property and design service providers to meet customers’ design needs depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services and tools, and our ability to meet our customers’ schedule and budget requirements. We have relationships with electronic design automation, or EDA, intellectual property and design service providers. We work with these service providers to develop a design platform that is tailored to our customers’ design needs. Our ability to successfully meet our customers’ design needs depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services and tools, and on whether we, together with our EDA, intellectual property and design service providers, are able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect our ability to attract or serve customers, and thereby could seriously harm our company. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance. Therefore, we do not have any significant backlog, resulting in reduced visibility of our future net revenue. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance of the commencement of the manufacture of the product. The time required to manufacture a product depends on the complexity of such product, with the more advanced technology products generally requiring a longer cycle time. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the 8 Table of Contents semiconductor industry, the length of time between our receipt of the purchase orders from our customers and the commencement date of the manufacture of the products have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our net revenue in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. The global economy has deteriorated and there has been unprecedented financial market volatility. These conditions have resulted in a reduction in demand in the foundry industry, which in turn have resulted in declines in orders or in some instances, customers requesting for a deferment of deliveries on existing orders. Our growth, technology capabilities, planned capacity expansion and our competitive position depend on the success of our more advanced manufacturing facilities. Our more advanced manufacturing facilities, especially our 300-mm wafer fab, is critically important to the success of our company. As our more advanced manufacturing facilities contain our leading-edge manufacturing capacity, any problems faced in those facilities, such as our inability to achieve acceptable device yields, poor product performance and product delivery delay, may limit our ability to manufacture advanced semiconductor products. Some of the process technologies that we use in these facilities arise from our joint development agreements with IBM and other third parties, and any problems with implementing those agreements could have a material and adverse effect on our company. We depend on our strategic business alliances relating to our fabs. Any termination or modification of these alliances could seriously harm our company. We currently have two strategic business alliances relating to the operation of Fab 5 and Fab 6. Our equity-method joint venture company, SMP, which owns and operates Fab 5, is a joint venture with LSI Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd., or LSI Singapore (formerly Agere Systems Singapore Pte Ltd, or Agere Systems Singapore), a subsidiary of Agere Systems Inc. In April 2007, Agere Systems Inc. merged with LSI Logic Corporation which resulted in Agere Systems Inc. becoming LSI Logic Corporation’s wholly-owned subsidiary. In connection with the merger, LSI Logic Corporation changed its name to LSI Corporation and Agere Systems Inc.’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Agere Systems Singapore, changed its name to LSI Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd. Our subsidiary, Chartered Silicon Partners Pte Ltd, or CSP, which owns and operates Fab 6, is a joint venture with Avago Technologies General IP (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., or Avago, EDB Investments Pte Ltd, or EDB Investments, and Singapex Investments Pte Ltd, or Singapex, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited, or Temasek. Our alliances with these companies and their predecessors gave us access to select leading-edge process technologies and moderated our development costs and capital expenditures in the initial years in Fab 5 and Fab 6. We believe that our alliances with these companies provide us with access to business on an ongoing basis. Any termination or modification of either of these alliances which adversely affects our rights under the alliance could seriously harm our company. For example, Avago’s shares in CSP were previously owned by Agilent Technologies Europe B.V. and the original process technologies needed by CSP were contributed by Agilent Technologies, Inc. and our company. Agilent Technologies, Inc. subsequently ceased development for certain technology nodes and therefore CSP has had to rely solely on the process technologies contributed by our company. We may not be able to compete successfully in our industry. The worldwide semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with dedicated foundry service providers such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, or TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, as well as the foundry operation services of some integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, such as IBM and Samsung. IDMs principally manufacture and sell their own proprietary semiconductor products, but may offer foundry services. Further, new entrants to the semiconductor foundry industry, such as “The Foundry Company“ resulting from the collaboration between AMD and Advanced Technology Investment Company of Abu Dhabi, may also have an impact on our business though we are presently unable to ascertain the extent of the impact. Our competitors may have greater access to capital and substantially greater production, R&D, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can. In addition, if semiconductor manufacturers, including our competitors, decide to increase their manufacturing capacity, and if growth in demand for this capacity fails to match the growth in supply, or occurs more slowly than anticipated, there may be more intense competition and pressure on the pricing of our products and services. The current economic downturn has increased the amount of excess capacity in the foundry industry and intensified our 9 Table of Contents competition and downward pricing pressure. Our competitors may undertake aggressive pricing strategies that may put downward pressure on our ASPs or cause us to lose customers. Any significant increase in competition may erode our profit margin and weaken our earnings. The principal elements of competition in the wafer foundry market include technical competence, time-to-market, R&D quality, available capacity, device yields, customer service, price, design services, access to intellectual property, EDA and tool support. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future, including our ability to obtain “first source” business, which could seriously harm our company. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenue, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • the cyclical nature of, and changing economic, political and market conditions affecting, the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers, including without limitation, seasonality in sales of electronic products into which some of our customers’ products are incorporated; • pricing pressure from competitors in the foundry industry; • shifts by IDMs between internal and outsourced production; • changes in demand for products that incorporate semiconductors that we produce; • inventory and supply chain management of our customers; • the loss of a key customer or the postponement or reduction of an order from a key customer or the failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivable in a timely manner; • the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders; • our inability to qualify new processes or customer products in a timely manner; • the return of wafers due to quality or reliability issues; • malfunction of our wafer production equipment; • unforeseen delays or interruptions in our plans for expansion of our existing fabrication facilities; • the timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; • our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost effective basis; • environmental events or industrial accidents such as fires or explosions; • our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; • our ability to continue with existing, and to enter into new, technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; • the rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; • actual capital expenditures differing from planned capital expenditures; • currency and interest rate fluctuations that may not be adequately hedged; and • technological changes. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on year-to-year comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our company. In addition, it is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our securities may underperform comparable securities or fall. Our business depends in part on our ability to obtain and preserve intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property, as well as the intellectual property of our customers. We seek to protect proprietary information and know-how through the use of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and limited the access to and distribution of proprietary information. We have filed and intend to continue to file patent applications when and where appropriate to protect our proprietary technologies. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and may be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Asian countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S. Additionally, we cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology, or reverse engineer our processes, or that our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements upon which we rely to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information will be effective. The occurrence of any such events could seriously harm our company. Please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company 10 Table of Contents — B. Business Overview — Intellectual Property” for a more detailed description of our proprietary technology. We may be subject to intellectual property rights disputes. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the U.S. and elsewhere until they are published or granted. Although we are not currently a party to any material litigation involving patent infringement, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time received communications from third parties asserting patents that cover certain of our technologies and alleging infringement of certain intellectual property rights of others. We expect to receive similar communications in the future. In the event any third party were to make a valid claim against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using certain process technologies which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain semiconductor products; • pay substantial monetary damages; • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our company could be seriously harmed by such developments. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary in order to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could seriously harm our company. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes. A large portion of our operations in Singapore is afforded tax holidays or other tax incentives provided to attract and retain business. These tax holidays or incentives are subject to certain conditions with which we expect to comply, such as achieving fixed amounts of capital expenditure and headcount by certain dates. Our taxes could increase if we do not meet the holiday or incentive requirements, or if tax rates applicable to us in Singapore are otherwise increased. We base our tax positions upon the anticipated results from tax authority examinations. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issues is judgmental. There can be no assurance that the outcome from examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, significant management judgment is required in determining the future levels of taxable income for purposes of assessing the ability to realize any future benefit from our deferred tax assets. In view of the deterioration in the global economy which has adversely affected our current year performance and our ability to generate sufficient taxable income for the realization of the net deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future, we have established valuation allowance on deferred tax assets which were assessed as more-likely-than-not to be unrealizable. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — Income tax expense (benefit)” for further information. We may experience difficulty in obtaining insurance coverage without incurring increased costs. While we have been able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the past and while we did not experience any significant increase in premium rates of insurance coverage for 2008, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to do so in the future at similar or reasonable premium rates. For example, following the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001, the premiums we paid for the renewal of our insurance coverage commencing from January 2002 were 2.2 times more than the premiums we paid for such coverage for the previous year. In the event that we fail to secure adequate coverage in the future at similar or reasonable premium rates, we could be seriously harmed by the occurrence of a loss that is not insured. Risks Related to Manufacturing We may experience difficulty in achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times as a result of manufacturing problems. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve device yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture wafers can cause a percentage of the 11 Table of Contents wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional, which in each case would negatively affect our device yields. We have, from time to time, experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays, lower than expected device yields and the replacement of certain vendors of manufacturing equipment used in our production processes. We may also experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems, especially in our more advanced manufacturing facilities. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, capacity constraints, construction delays, increasing production at new facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, human errors, equipment malfunction or process contamination, which could seriously harm our company. We depend on our vendors of raw materials, supplies and equipment and do not generally have long-term supply contracts with them. We depend on our vendors of raw materials and supplies. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we must obtain from our vendors, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality raw materials and supplies at acceptable prices. We obtain most of our raw materials and supplies, including critical raw materials such as raw semiconductor wafers, from a limited number of vendors. Some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of vendors in limited quantities and their procurement may require a long lead time. We purchase most of our key raw materials and supplies on a purchase order basis. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our vendors. As a result, from time to time due to capacity constraints, vendors have extended lead times or limited the supply of required raw materials and supplies to us. Consequently, from time to time, and particularly during periods of sudden increase in demand, we have experienced and may experience difficulty in obtaining quantities of raw materials that we need on a timely basis. Further, where we only have one qualified supplier for certain raw materials and supplies and a need subsequently arises to look to other alternative suppliers, we would have to qualify these alternative suppliers, and such qualification could lead to delays in production and seriously harm our company. In addition, from time to time, we may reject raw materials and supplies that do not meet our specifications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality. If our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies in a timely manner is substantially diminished or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials, it could seriously harm our company. We also depend on a limited number of original equipment manufacturers and vendors that make and sell the complex equipment and equipment spare parts that we use in our manufacturing processes. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery and complete qualification of some of this equipment could be as long as 15 months, or even longer. In addition, in the event of a shortage of supply of equipment spare parts, we would need to qualify alternative sources and/or equipment spare parts. Any delay in the delivery or increase in the cost or availability of this equipment or equipment spare parts could seriously harm our company. Further, the long lead time reduces our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions. Please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business Overview — Equipment and Materials” for additional information regarding our relationships with our suppliers of materials and equipment. We depend on assembly and test subcontractors for our semiconductor assembly and testing requirements. Semiconductor assembly and test operations are an integral part of the semiconductor manufacturing process and involve specialized equipment and technology. If our customers require products to be assembled and/or tested, we will need to depend on assembly and test subcontractors to provide us with the assembly, test and wafer bumping services as we do not have such in-house assembly and test capabilities and facilities. Wafer bumping is an advanced packaging technique where “bumps” made of solder are formed on the wafers before they are diced into individual chips. We currently subcontract a significant number of orders for assembly, testing and wafer bumping services to a limited group of assembly and test subcontractors. The assembly and test subcontractors that we use may, from time to time, experience tester capacity constraints and production interruptions and any prolonged interruption in their operations could seriously harm our company. We are subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fire. Although we have implemented industry acceptable risk management controls at our manufacturing locations, the risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated and, in the past, we have had minor interruptions in production as a result of fire. We maintain insurance policies to guard against losses caused by fire. While we believe our insurance coverage for damage to our property and disruption of our business due to fire is adequate, we cannot assure you that it would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, it would reduce manufacturing capacity for 12 Table of Contents a period, which could be extended, and could seriously harm our company. Our failure to comply with certain environmental regulations could seriously harm our company. We are subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Singapore relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our production process. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, if we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, our company could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or modify our manufacturing operations at significant costs to us. In addition, we could be required to pay for the cleanup of our properties if they are found to be contaminated even if we are not responsible for the contamination. We maintain insurance policies to guard against certain types of legal liability resulting from sudden, unintended and unexpected pollution causing damage to third parties. Our insurance policies do not cover losses incurred in relation to the cleanup of our properties if they are found to be contaminated by our company. While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot assure you that it would be sufficient to cover all our potential losses. Risks Related to Our Infrastructure We face risks in expanding, constructing and equipping our fabrication plants. Where we expand by constructing new fabrication plants or enhance the existing fabrication plants’ manufacturing capabilities, there could be events that could delay the projects or increase the costs of construction and equipping, even if we take the project management and planning steps we believe are necessary to complete the projects on schedule and within budget. Such potential events include: • major design and/or construction change caused by changes to the initial building space utilization plan or equipment layout; • technological, capacity and other changes to our expansion plans necessitated by changes in market conditions; • shortages and late delivery of building materials and facility equipment; • delays in the installation, commissioning and qualification of our facility equipment; • a long and intensive wet season that limits construction; • a shortage of skilled foreign construction workers or a change in immigration laws preventing such workers from entering Singapore; • strikes and labor disputes; • on-site construction problems such as industrial accidents, fires and structural collapse; • delays in securing the necessary governmental approvals and land lease; • delays arising from modifications in capacity expansion plans as a result of uncertainty in the global economy; and • delays arising from shortages and long lead times for delivery of equipment during periods of growth in the industry. We depend on key personnel and skilled and qualified employees for our business and operations and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of skilled employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior executives and our engineering, marketing, customer services, manufacturing, support and other personnel. We use various share plans as compensation tools to attract and retain our personnel. If we were to terminate these plans, or were to modify such plans with decreased benefits to employees or were to reduce the share grants made under these plans to avoid or minimize an adverse impact on our financial results, we may become uncompetitive from an employee compensation perspective and may not be able to continue to attract and/or retain required personnel, which could seriously harm our company. If we were to lose the services of any of our existing key personnel without adequate replacements, or were unable to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel for our business and operations, the growth of our company could be adversely affected. For example, although we strive to retain employees that we send on assignments with our technology partners, such as IBM, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining these employees or that if our employees leave, our technology partners would re-train their replacements. If our key employees leave, this may limit our ability to benefit from the alliances and could seriously harm our company. We do not carry insurance to protect us against the loss of any of our key personnel. Risks Related to Covenants in Our Agreements Many of our loans contain financial and other covenants which may restrict our operational and financing activities in ways that restrict our growth or are otherwise not in the best interests of our company or holders of 13 Table of Contents our securities. Many of our loans contain various financial and other restrictive covenants. Among other things, these covenants require the maintenance of certain financial ratios (including debt to equity). These covenants may restrict our operational and financing activities in ways that restrict our growth or are otherwise not in the best interests of our company or holders of our securities. If we fail to comply with these financial and other covenants, we could be in default under these loans and the lenders would have the right to accelerate our obligations to repay the outstanding borrowings under these loans. Such default could also cause cross-defaults under our other loans which could seriously harm us. Many of our loans also require that we obtain prior written consent from our lenders prior to incurring additional indebtedness or creating security interests over our assets or making investments. Consequently, although we have been able to obtain such lender consents in the past, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional debt in the future or to create security interests over our assets or in making investments, any of which could seriously harm our company. In addition, if we experience a change of control, each holder of our outstanding senior notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of that holder’s notes and the lenders under our credit facilities may require us to prepay those loans. See “Item 10. Additional Information — C. Material Contracts” for more details on our loan agreements and senior notes. Risks Related to Investments in a Controlled Corporation Temasek controls our company and its interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, Temasek through its subsidiary, Singapore Technologies Semiconductors Pte Ltd, or ST Semiconductors, beneficially owned approximately 59.39% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Temasek’s sole shareholder is the Minister for Finance (Incorporated), a body corporate constituted under the Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act, Chapter 183 of Singapore. Accordingly, Temasek is able to exercise control over many matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. We also have contractual and other business relationships with several of Temasek’s affiliates and may engage in material transactions with them from time to time. Although the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews all material transactions between our company and Temasek and such affiliates, circumstances may arise in which the interests of Temasek and such affiliates could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Because Temasek, through its subsidiary, ST Semiconductors, beneficially owns 59.39% of our ordinary shares, it could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a transaction of that nature would be beneficial to our other shareholders. See “Item 5. Operating And Financial Review And Prospects — Executive Overview”. Risks Related to Investment in a Corporation with International Operations We operate internationally and any negative or adverse economic, political and social development in countries in which our customers and their markets are located may have a negative impact on our revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers whose semiconductors are used in products that are sold in the U.S., Taiwan, Japan, Europe and other locations in East and Southeast Asia. Our principal vendors are also located in these locations. With the global economic slowdown, major economies such as the United States, Japan, some of the countries in Europe and Asia have announced that they are in recession. Our results of operations in the future could be negatively impacted if the economic, political and social environment in any of these locations deteriorates. Examples of current or potential adverse economic, political and social developments in those locations are: • global credit and financial crises; • fluctuations in the values of currencies; • changes in labor conditions; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political and economic instability; • increases in duties and taxation; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • limitations on imports or exports; • expropriation of private enterprises; • reversal of the current policies (including favorable tax and lending policies) encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries; 14 Table of Contents • longer payment cycles; and • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war have the potential to have a direct impact on our customers and us. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the U.S. and any other places in which our customers’ markets are located or affect the countries where our operations are located, our business may be significantly impacted. In addition, terrorist attacks or other acts of war could adversely impact the transportation of our products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition and thereby could seriously harm our company. Outbreak of an infectious disease or any other serious public health concerns in Asia (including Singapore) and elsewhere could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The outbreak of an infectious disease in Asia (including Singapore) and elsewhere, together with any resulting restrictions on travel or quarantines imposed, could have a negative impact on the economies, financial markets and business activities in countries in which our end markets are located and thereby adversely impacting our revenue. Examples are the outbreak in 2003 of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, in East Asia and the outbreaks of Avian Influenza, or Bird Flu, globally. While we took precautionary measures in response to the outbreak of SARS in 2003, there is no assurance that any precautionary measures that we may take against SARS or any other infectious diseases in the future would be effective. A future outbreak of an infectious disease or any other serious public health concern could seriously harm our company. Exchange rate fluctuations may increase our costs and capital expenditures, which could affect our operating results and financial position. Our revenue is generally denominated in U.S. dollars and our operating expenses are generally incurred in U.S. dollars and Singapore dollars. Our capital expenditures are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen, Euros and Singapore dollars. Although we hedge a portion of the resulting net foreign exchange position through the use of forward exchange contracts and the maintenance of foreign currency bank deposits, we could still be significantly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the above mentioned currencies. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may lead to an increase in our costs and capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our competitiveness, operating results and financial position. We may be a passive foreign investment company. Based on our asset composition and operations, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under U.S. tax laws during 2008. However, there can be no assurances that we will not be a PFIC in 2009 or in a later year. If the “passive income” earned by us exceeds 75% or more of our “gross income,” we will be a PFIC under the “income test.” In addition, we will be a PFIC if at least 50% of the quarterly average value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held to produce passive income. The determination of the value of our assets will be based in part on the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Because we have historically held, and may continue to hold a substantial amount of passive assets, there is a risk that we may be a PFIC in 2009 or in a later year. Passive income for PFIC purposes includes, among other things, interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we were to become a PFIC at any time during a U.S. person’s holding period, such U.S. person holding ordinary shares or ADS would be required, unless a “mark to market” election is made with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs, to pay an interest charge on certain distributions from us or upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs and face other adverse tax consequences. Please see “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Taxation — PFIC rules.” It is strongly urged that U.S. persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the application of the PFIC rules. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of the members of our Board of Directors under Singapore law may be different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the U.S. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our Board of Directors or our controlling shareholder than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the U.S. For example, controlling shareholders in U.S. corporations are subject to fiduciary duties while controlling shareholders in Singapore corporations are not subject to such duties. 15 Table of Contents It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or our affiliates. Our company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Singapore. Many of our directors and senior management, and the expert named in this document reside outside the U.S. In addition, virtually all of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or any of these persons or to enforce in the U.S. any judgment obtained in the U.S. courts against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or any state or territory of the U.S. Judgments of the U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforceable in Singapore courts, and there is doubt as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Singapore law contains provisions that could discourage a take-over of our company. The Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers, or the Take-Over Code, contains certain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a future take-over or change in control of our company. Any person acquiring an interest (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) in 30% or more of our voting shares may be required to extend a take-over offer for our remaining voting shares in accordance with the Take-Over Code. A take-over offer may also be required to be made if a person holding (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) between 30% and 50% (both inclusive) of our voting shares acquires (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) additional voting shares representing more than 1% of our voting shares in any six-month period. These provisions may discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control of our company. Some of our shareholders, which may include you, may therefore be disadvantaged as a transaction of that kind might have allowed the sale of the shares at a price above the prevailing market price. Risks Related to Our Securities and Our Trading Market The future sales of securities by our company or existing shareholders may negatively impact the price of our securities. If we or our shareholders sell a large number of our securities in the public market, the trading price of such securities could decrease significantly. Any perception that these sales could occur could also result in a significant decline in the trading price of our securities. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. All of our outstanding shares are freely tradable in Singapore and in the U.S. (in the form of ADSs), except that the shares owned by our affiliates, including ST Semiconductors, may be sold in the U.S. only if they are registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. The market prices of our securities fluctuate widely and may be more volatile as the Singapore securities market is relatively smaller and consequently less liquid than the U.S. markets. The financial markets in the U.S., Singapore and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. The market prices of our securities have fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. In the last five years, the trading prices of our ADS quoted on Nasdaq have ranged from a high of $11.81 per ADS to a low of $1.15 per ADS. More recently, the trading prices of our ADS quoted on Nasdaq have ranged from a high of $5.65 per ADS to a low of $1.15 per ADS from July 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. Volatility in the prices of our securities may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Furthermore, the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, or Singapore Exchange, is relatively smaller and consequently less liquid and more volatile than stock exchanges in the U.S. and certain European countries. The relatively small market capitalization of, and trading volume on, the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange may cause the market price of securities of listed companies, including our securities, to fluctuate in both the domestic and the international markets. Your voting rights with respect to the ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement for the ADSs. Holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Singapore law or under our 16 Table of Contents Articles of Association that limit ADS holders’ ability to exercise their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying ordinary shares. However, there are practical limitations upon the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with such holders. For example, our Articles of Association require us to notify our shareholders at least 14 days in advance of any annual general meeting unless a special resolution is to be passed at that meeting, in which case at least 21 days’ notice must be given. Our ordinary shareholders will receive notice directly from us and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Rather, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the depositary, which will in turn, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to holders of ADSs: • the notice of such meeting; • voting instruction forms; and • a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the depositary how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of ordinary shares. ADSs for which the depositary does not receive timely voting instructions will not be voted at any meeting. Except as described in this document, holders will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ADSs. Your ability to participate in any rights offering of our company is limited. We distributed in October 2002, and may from time to time distribute, rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities under the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. The depositary will not offer rights to holders in any jurisdictions unless both the rights and the securities to which such rights relate are either exempt from registration under the applicable securities laws of such jurisdictions or are registered in accordance with the provisions of such laws. However, we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our securities may be unable to participate in rights offerings by us and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements, as defined in the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of these forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements relating to: • our business strategy; • our outlook for 2009; • our capacity utilization rate, production capacity and production capacity mix; • our plan to lower our breakeven utilization rate to around 75% at the earnings before interest and tax level by the fourth quarter of 2009; • our plans to expand our production capacity for 65nm, 45nm and below process geometry technologies to meet the anticipated needs of our customers; • our 2009 planned capital expenditures, R&D expenditures, depreciation and amortization and wafer capacity; and • our sources of liquidity, cash flow, funding needs and financings. These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: • decreased consumer confidence; • financial market turmoil and the deteriorating global economic conditions; • the ability to access or renew existing or to obtain additional financing and the terms thereof; • changes in the demands from our major customers; • excess inventory, life cycle, market outlook and trends or specific products; • demand and supply outlook in the semiconductor market; • competition from existing foundries and new foundry companies resulting in pricing pressures; • product mix; • unforeseen delays, interruptions, performance level and technology mix in our fabrication facilities; • our progress on leading-edge products; 17 Table of Contents • changes in capacity plans, allocation and process technology mix; • unavailability of materials, equipment, manpower and expertise; • access to or delays in technological advances or our development of process technologies; • the successful implementation of our technology and supply alliances (including our joint development agreements with IBM, Infineon, Samsung, Toshiba, STMicroelectronics, AMD and NEC); • the growth rate of fabless companies, the outsourcing strategy of IDMs and our expectation that IDMs will utilize foundry capacity more extensively; and • terrorist attacks, acts of war, or the possibility of an outbreak of Bird Flu or any other infectious disease in Singapore, as well as other parts of the world. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained. In addition to the foregoing factors, a description of certain other risks and uncertainties which cause actual results to differ materially can be found in “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this document. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s current analysis of future events. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 