D. Risk Factors Readers are cautioned that an investment in Jacada is subject to a number of risks. Readers should consider carefully all information set forth herein and in particular the following risks in connection with an investment in Jacada: Risks Related to Our Business Global recession and continued credit constraints could adversely affect us. Recent disruption in the global credit markets, failures or material business deterioration of investment banks, commercial banks, and other financial institutions and intermediaries in the United States and elsewhere around the world, and significant reductions in asset values across businesses, households and individuals, combined with other financial and economic indicators, have combined to indicate a global recession. If these conditions continue or worsen, they may result in reduced demand or funding for projects involving our customer service and support solutions, longer sales cycle for our projects or termination of projects by our customers, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Among other things, we might face: • potential declines in orders for our customer service and support solutions and in our revenues from such solutions due to reduced or postponed orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers; • longer sales processes and a need for increased efforts to secure projects in order to be able to demonstrate to customers and prospective customers return on investment that meets such customers’ and prospective customers’ business needs and requirements in current economic conditions; • potential adverse impact on our customers’ ability to pay, when due, amounts payable to us, or on our ability to collect amounts payable to us in full (or at all) if any of our customers fail or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws; • potential re-evaluation by our customers and prospective customers of approved or contracted projects in order to address budget reductions or other impacts and factors of the current economic conditions by such customers and prospective customers; 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any of these things could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. These economic conditions also impact our ability to forecast orders and revenues and our ability to provide guidance for our performance. If our new management team is unable to fully transition into their respective new positions, our operations will be adversely affected. Our Chief Executive Officer, Paul O’Callaghan, informed us, that he is leaving Jacada as of April 20, 2009. Our board of directors accepted his resignation and has appointed Tom Clear as our new Chief Executive Officer, effective April 20, 2009, 2009. In addition, our Chief Financial Officer, Tzvia Broida, has informed us that she will be leaving the company too. Her replacement, Bob Aldwoth, who previously served as our Chief Financial Officer from January 2001 through January 2005, will become Chief Financial Officer upon Ms. Broida’s departure. If this new senior management team is unable to transition into their respective positions, our operations will be adversely affected. The sale of our legacy business may result in the reduction of revenues and impact our ability to achieve profitability. In January 2008 we sold the intellectual property and related customer contracts associated with the following Jacada products: Jacada Interface Server and Jacada Integrator, also known as Jacada HostFuse, Jacada Studio, Jacada Innovator and Jacada Terminal Emulator. These activities associated with these products comprised our application modernization and legacy integration business, which we refer to as our traditional or legacy business. Revenues from our legacy business, which were derived from sales of licenses, professional services and maintenance services, represented a substantial portion of our revenues, in the years 2005, 2006 and 2007. We cannot assure you that the growth of revenues from our customer service and support business, from which we expect to generate almost all of our revenues in the future will offset the loss of revenues resulting from the sale of our traditional market business. Furthermore, the costs associated with our legacy business were relatively fixed at levels that resulted in that business achieving profitability on a stand-alone basis. We have and intend to continue to invest in our customer service and support business, meaning that unless we are successful in achieving significant growth in revenues from that business, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability will be affected by the other risks and uncertainties described in this section and in the sections entitled “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our business model is focused on continued growth in a market in which we have only several years of experience and failure to continue our early penetration into this market would negatively impact our results of operations. We have elected to focus our business on the sale of our software products and solution in the customer services and support market. In the second quarter of 2004, we introduced Jacada Fusion, our solution that is designed to integrate different applications residing on host, Windows and Web-based platforms, and allow non-invasive access to those applications through a single user interface. In the third quarter of 2005, we introduced Jacada WorkSpace, a built for purpose solution designed to be a single agent console that unifies customer interaction tools with a single access point to all the mission-critical applications required by the customer service representative to effectively complete a customer interaction. Our license to sell our traditional market products, on a stand alone basis, is limited to sales for the use by our customers in their customer services and support business. However, we have limited experience in this market. Our limited experience and knowledge regarding the customer services and support market may impede our ability to sell our products and result in decreased revenues and increased losses. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We must continue our significant investment in our sales and marketing efforts, including our indirect distribution channels, in order to increase market awareness of our products and to generate increased revenues. We believe that our future success is dependent upon the expansion of our indirect distribution channels, consisting of our relationships with partners, system integrators, call center outsourcers, resellers and distributors. Significant continued investment in indirect distribution channels and in our direct sales and marketing efforts is essential to increase market awareness of our products and to generate increased revenues, in relation to such products. We currently have relationships with a limited number of these parties. Our future growth will be limited if: • we fail to work effectively with our indirect distribution partners; or • there is a decrease in the willingness or ability of our indirect distribution partners to devote sufficient resources and efforts to market, sale and support our products or; • we fail to increase the number of indirect distribution partners with which we have relationships. If any of these circumstances occurs, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the sales, marketing, distribution, implementation, customization and support of our products than we otherwise would. However, our own efforts, limited resources, limited experience in delivering significant and complex implementation and customization projects and relative lack of contacts within the customer services and support market in comparison with some of our potential indirect distribution channels, may not be as effective as those of our indirect distribution channels. We do not have a proven business model for the customer services and support market; if our business model is inappropriate for this market and our estimations regarding the sales cycle for this market are incorrect, our efforts to successfully commercialize Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace may be harmed or we will experience a further delay in generating revenues from these products. Our business model for selling Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products is different than the business model we used for our traditional market products. To date we have had limited number of deals in which we sold Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace and therefore we do not have enough experience to determine if our business model is correct and is appropriate for the generation either of new sales or follow-on sales. In the event that our chosen business model is inappropriate, we may need to modify our business model and adjust the manner in which we sell Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace in order to close subsequent transactions. If our business model is incorrect and must be adjusted, our revenues and expense levels may be adversely affected. Our backlog decreased in 2008 and as a result our revenues may decline if we do not increase the number of transactions we enter into in 2009. Our backlog at year-end 2008 decreased significantly in relation to year-end 2007. As a result of this decline in backlog, our revenue visibility into 2009 has declined. Reduced backlog means that we will be more dependent on signing new transactions in 2009 in order to generate revenues. If we fail to sign a sufficient number of new transactions in 2009 for which we recognize revenue in 2009, our revenues and results of operations will adversely affected. Our direct sales and marketing resources are limited. We have a limited number of direct sales and marketing personnel who are in charge of our sales and marketing activities globally. These limited 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements resources may not be able to identify and qualify a sufficient number of sales opportunities which will constitute our sales pipeline. A limited qualified sales pipeline may not generate a sufficient number of orders to our customer service and support solutions that is required to support our business growth. Revenues from our customer services and support products might be concentrated in a few large orders and a small number of customers, meaning that the loss of a significant customer or a failure to make even a small number of such sales could harm our results of operations. Historically, revenues from our traditional market products were generated from a relatively large number of sales to a wide number of customers. During 2008, 2007 and 2006 revenues from the Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products derived from large orders from a small number of customers. In the year 2008 two customers represented 48% of our total revenues, in the year 2007 two customers represented 41% of our total revenues and in the year 2006 three customers represented 57% of our total revenues. Currently we cannot assure you that we will make repeat sales to these customers. To the extent that this trend continues, our revenues will be dependent on a relatively limited number of significant customers. We also cannot assure you that new customers will purchase our products and services in the future. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or the occurrence of significant reductions in sales from a key customer would cause our revenues to significantly decrease and make it significantly more difficult for us to become profitable. Competition in the market in which we operate is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our products may be reduced. The markets in which we operate are competitive and subject to changes. Our products compete with other contact center solutions offered by other vendors including Microsoft, Corizon and OpenSpan. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. In addition, our potential customers may choose to deploy traditional CRM application software, or utilize their own information technology personnel or system integrators to write new code or rewrite existing applications in an effort to develop their own customer service and support solutions. As a result, prospective clients may decide against purchasing and implementing externally-developed solutions such as ours. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and larger customer bases than we do. Our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to ours; adapt more quickly than us to new technologies, evolving industry trends or customer requirements; or devote greater resources than we do to the development, promotion and sale of products. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, competition may intensify and future competition may harm our business. We rely on our key personnel and key management members, whose knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be extremely difficult to replace. Our future success depends, to a certain degree, on the continued services of key management, as well as on our sales and technical personnel. The loss of services of any of our key management for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the markets in which we recruit. As a result, our ability to recruit and retain qualified candidates may be limited. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our revenues could be adversely affected if we fail to recruit and retain consultants and other technical service personnel. Sales of our Jacada Fusion and Jacada WorkSpace products require in many cases advance sales activity involving consultants and post-sale implementation and customization. We rely on our staff of professional consultants, other technical service personnel and subcontractors to implement our solutions after being purchased by our customers. Unless we are able to recruit and retain professional consultants, other technical service personnel and subcontractors or hire and train such personnel and subcontractors to replace those who leave us, it will be difficult for us to implement our solutions and obtain customer acceptance and to increase or possibly even maintain our present level of sales due to constraints on our capacity to implement sales. In addition, a growing number of our transactions require implementation of our solutions. In these transactions, the implementation and customization services performed by these personnel are especially important. If we are unable to hire and retain these personnel, it may adversely impact our ability to successfully close such transactions. Our future growth will be adversely affected and our future operating results may be adversely affected if we fail to develop and introduce new functionality for our products and new products for the customer service and support market or if our new products fail to achieve market acceptance. In order to achieve sales growth we will need to develop and introduce new functionality for our customer service and support products and new products for such market. Our ability to develop and introduce new functionality for our customer service and support products and new products for this market requires us to invest significant resources in research and development and in the sales and marketing of a new product. If we fail to develop and market new products successfully, we may not be able to recover our research and development expenditures or our sales and marketing expenditures, which would adversely impact our operating results. Because our products are complex and generally involve significant capital expenditures by customers, we may invest significant time and expense in trying to make a sale to a potential customer that ultimately chooses not to purchase our products. Our sales typically involve significant capital investment decisions by prospective customers, and often require us to expend a significant amount of time to educate prospective customers as to the benefits of our products, especially in the current economic conditions. As a result, before purchasing our products, companies spend a substantial amount of time performing internal reviews and obtaining approvals. Even if our products are effective, our target customers may not choose them for technical, cost, support or other reasons. A majority of our revenues derives from the provision of professional services. We derive our revenues from license fees for our software products, from fees for professional services (which include installation, implementation, integration and customization of our solutions), training and from maintenance and support services. In 2006, 2007 and 2008 services revenues constituted a majority of our total revenues. Services revenues have lower gross margins relative to software revenue. If we do not succeed in increasing the proportion of our total revenue attributable to software license fees we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Failure to deliver professional services efficiently could negatively impact our gross margins. Our limited experience and knowledge regarding the customer services and support market generally and the delivery of our products and solutions for this new market specifically may impact the efficiency of our professional services deliveries, as we may need to expend more resources in the delivery of professional services to a customer than we had originally estimated. Any such expending of more resources may negatively impact our professional services gross margins and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Additionally, failure to deliver professional services efficiently and to our customers’ satisfaction may increase 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the potential of termination of projects by our customers, especially in the current economic conditions since customers may be less flexible on budget and delivery dates. In previous years, we experienced fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations, which resulted, and may continue to result, in volatility in our share price. In previous years we have experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, and we may likewise experience significant fluctuations in our annual results of operations. Factors which have contributed and may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations include: our ability to deliver our implementation and customization projects, customer acceptance of our products and solutions, the size and timing of orders, general economic conditions, market awareness, the capital spending patterns of our customers, customer concentration and the timing of our product introductions or enhancements or that of our competitors or providers of complementary products. Because of these and other factors, our quarterly revenues may fluctuate materially, especially in the current economic conditions. Therefore, the results of past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may again be below expectations of public market analysts or investors, which may cause our share price to decline. The market price of our shares is volatile and the volume of the daily trading of our shares is very low; therefore you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all. The risks described in this Item 3.D may adversely affect our share price. Our share price, like that of many technology companies, may be subject to volatility. In addition, our share price may be adversely affected by changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts, changes in the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us, and changes in market valuations of similar companies. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our share price decreases to below $1.00 per share and remains there for 30 consecutive trading days, Nasdaq could initiate procedures to de-list our shares from the Nasdaq National Market and onto either the Nasdaq Small Cap Market or the OTC Bulletin Board. If our shares are de-listed from the Nasdaq National Market, the benefit of dual-listing reporting requirements would no longer be relevant to us and we would be required to follow the Israeli and Tel-Aviv stock exchange rules and regulations. Furthermore, because of the low volume of daily trading in our shares, you may be unable to sell your shares in the market due to low or no demand for such shares. Our ordinary shares could be treated as shares in a “passive foreign investment company”, which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States Holders. As a non-U.S. company, we could potentially be treated as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) if either (1) at least 75% of our gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” See discussion under “Item 10E Taxation” for further details regarding these tests. We believe that our ordinary shares should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes, but such a conclusion is a factual determination made annually and may be subject to change. If we are determined to be PFIC, a U.S. Holder, as this term is described in “Item 10E Taxation”, may have less advantageous tax consequences upon the sale, exchange or receipt of dividends with respect to our ordinary shares and may be required to pay United States federal income tax at ordinary income rates for gains, dividends, as well as an interest charge on certain “excess distributions as this term is explained later on. Certain elections may mitigate 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements these consequences. See “Item 10E Taxation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences if we were to be treated as a PFIC. We expect to be subject to increasing risks of international operations. Currently we market and sell our products and services primarily in North America and Europe, from which areas we received approximately 96.4% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Managing our operations in North America and Europe requires significant management attention and financial resources. Further, we currently have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products in regions other than North America and Europe. Our inability to increase our worldwide operations successfully could adversely impact our business. Our products may contain unknown defects that could harm our reputation, result in product liability or decrease market acceptance of our products. Our products may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Although we have not experienced any material software defects to date, defects could cause our customers to experience system failures. Our customers depend on our software for their critical systems and business functions. Any errors or defects could: • damage our reputation; • increase our product development costs; • divert our product development resources; • expose us to monetary damages; • cause us to lose future sales; • damage our ability to deliver our solutions to the customer; or • delay or diminish market acceptance of our products. Although we conduct extensive testing, we may not discover software defects that affect our products or enhancements until after they are sold. Furthermore, we are unable to test our products in each of the applications in which they are designed to work. Certain of our products, contain technology that we acquired or licensed from third parties. Because we did not develop the technology ourselves, there may be errors in the technology of which we are not aware. In addition, our products are integrated with our customers’ networks and software applications. The sale and support of our products may expose us to the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on damage to these networks or applications caused by the technology we developed or the technology developed by a third party and acquired by us. In addition, the failure of our products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to warranty or other claims. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation or divert management’s attention and resources. We may not have sufficient funds or insurance coverage to satisfy any or all liability that may be imposed upon us with respect to these claims. Our technology may be subject to infringement claims or may be infringed upon. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our technology. Most of our intellectual property, other than our trademarks, consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements protection. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Although we do not believe that our products infringe upon any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of others, we cannot be certain that one or more persons will not make a claim of infringement against us. Any claims, with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause product shipment and installation delays; • divert management’s attention and resources; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or may not be available at all. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales. Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures but include the general public license. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products that are integrated with these technologies. For example, in the event we integrate into one of our products a technology covered under the general public license, we may be required to disclose our source code for the integrated product. Disclosing our source code could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage our products may have over theirs, and therefore materially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. A successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. In the Future we may identify material weaknesses in our controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity and value of our investment portfolio. We invest our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries with and in the custody of financial institutions with high credit ratings. While our investment policy and strategy attempt to manage interest rate risk, limit credit risk, and only invest in what we view as very high-quality securities, the outlook for our investment holdings is dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace, which can all affect the income that we receive, the value of our investments, and our ability to sell them. We believe that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in unrealized or realized losses relating to other than temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. Exchange rate fluctuations between the dollar and other currencies may negatively affect our results of operation. Our results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars, however, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses in 2008 were generated and incurred outside of the United States and in currencies other than the U.S Dollar, particularly in NIS, English Pounds and Euros. As a result, we are subject to a foreign currency risk. Specifically our sales in Europe and in the UK and our expenses in Israel, Europe and the UK are recorded in local currencies which exposes us to the direct risk of local currency devaluations or fluctuations against the U.S dollar rate of exchange. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which our costs are incurred or revenues are recorded and the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations in the major foreign currencies in which we operate. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively limit all of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and we maintain significant operations in Israel. Certain of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you might not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of such persons. Additionally, you might not be able to bring civil actions under United States securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. We have been advised by our Israeli counsel that, subject to certain limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a final executory judgment of a United States court for liquidated amounts in civil matters after a hearing in Israel, provided that certain conditions are met. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Conditions in and around Israel could adversely affect our operations. Because our research and development facilities are located in Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially adversely affect our operations. Despite the negotiations towards peace between Israel and certain of its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain. From October 2000 until recently, there was a significant increase 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements in violence primarily in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian representatives have ceased for periods of time. In January 2006, Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates in the Palestinian Parliament and the tension among the different Palestinian factions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Hamas does not recognize Israel’s right to exist as a state and Israel considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization. During December 2008 and January 2009, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas and during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. These recent conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern and southern Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any renewed hostilities or other factors related to Israel could have a material adverse effect on us or on our business or adversely affect our share price. Generally, all non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 (or older, for citizens with certain occupations), including some of our officers, directors and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The absence of these employees for significant periods may cause us to experience operating difficulties. Additionally, a number of countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel or Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. Any failure to obtain the tax benefits from the State of Israel that we anticipate receiving could adversely affect our plans and prospects. Pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, the Israeli government has granted “Approved Enterprise” status to our existing capital investment programs under the Alternative Benefits Program. Consequently, we are eligible for certain tax benefits for the first several years in which we generate taxable income. However, we have not yet begun to generate taxable income for purposes of this law. Once we begin to generate taxable income, our financial results could suffer if our tax benefits are significantly reduced. In order to receive tax benefits, we must comply with a number of conditions and criteria. If we fail to comply in whole or in part with these conditions and criteria, we will not be entitled to the tax benefits. Although we believe that we have operated and will continue to operate in compliance with the required conditions, we cannot assure you that this will continue. We cannot assure you that these tax benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of tax benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in April 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for investments that qualify for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. In addition, in the event that we increase our activities outside the State of Israel, these activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Accordingly, our effective corporate tax rate could increase significantly in the future. Certain provisions of our articles of association and of Israeli law could delay, hinder or prevent a change in our control. Our articles of association contain provisions which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our articles of association provide that our board of directors is divided into four classes, three of which serving three-year terms. In addition, certain provisions of the Israeli Companies Law, which we refer to as the Companies Law, could also delay or otherwise make more difficult a change in control. The provisions of the 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Companies Law relating to mergers and acquisitions are discussed in greater detail in “Item 10.B: Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Our stock is traded on more than one stock exchange and this may result in price variations. Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Our stock is traded on these markets in different currencies (US dollars on Nasdaq and New Israeli Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different opening times (notably, different time zones and public holidays; in addition, the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange is closed on Fridays and open on Sundays, while Nasdaq is open on Fridays and closed on Sundays). This means that our stock is often traded at a price differential on these two markets resulting, among other factors, from the different trading times and the differences in exchange rates. 