D. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports and documents submitted to, or filed with, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, among other factors, could affect our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have a history of losses and we may not be profitable in the future. In 2002, 2003 and 2005, we incurred net losses of $417.1 million, $291.2 million and $159.6 million, respectively. In 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2006, we generated net income of $6.6 million and $66.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,221.5 million. We cannot assure you that the accumulated deficit will not continue or increase in the future or that we will remain profitable. 6 Table of Contents We have a high level of debt. If we are unable to make interest and principal payments on our debt, it could seriously harm our company. We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of debt. Our high level of debt and the covenants contained in our financing documents such as financial, shareholding and other restrictive covenants which are customary to loan documents could have important consequences to our company. For example, they could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to pursue our growth plan and technology upgrades or migrations; • require us to seek lenders’ consent prior to paying dividends on our ordinary shares; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes. The term “capital expenditures” means the amount we paid or will pay during a particular period for property, plant and equipment; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the semiconductor industry; and • limit our ability to incur additional borrowings or raise additional financing through equity or debt instruments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make interest and principal payments on debt incurred in connection with our growth if the average selling prices, or ASPs, or demand for our semiconductor wafers are lower than expected. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures, research and development costs and fab start-up costs in connection with our growth plans and may require additional financing that may not be available. Our business and the nature of our industry require us to make substantial capital expenditures, leading to a high level of fixed costs. We expect to incur significant capital expenditures in connection with our growth plans and technology upgrades and migrations. For example, during 2004, 2005 and 2006, we made substantial capital expenditures of $686.3 million, $628.1 million and $554.3 million, respectively. We expect our total cash outflow for capital expenditures in 2007 to be approximately $800 million, including $65 million of capital expenditures in 2006 for our 90 nanometer, or nm, and below technologies which are expected to be paid in 2007. Capital expenditures planned for 2007 are primarily for increasing 65nm and below capacity. With the above capital expenditures, Fab 7 is expected to have equipment (installed or available for installation) that is equivalent to a capacity of 25,000 300 millimeter, or mm, wafers per month by December 2007. We had originally planned to equip Fab 7 with a full capacity of 30,000 300-mm wafers per month but have revised this estimate to 39,000 300-mm wafers per month covering mainly 0.13 micron, or um, to 65nm technology nodes. In addition, to further align our manufacturing capabilities with our technology position, we are adding an additional phase for our Fab 7 expansion that will be focused on 65nm and 45nm technologies. At completion, Fab 7 is expected to have a capacity of 45,000 300-mm wafers per month and our total capital investment in Fab 7 is expected to be approximately between $4,200 million and $4,500 million. As of December 31, 2006, we have spent $1,638.6 million equipping Fab 7. For more details on the costs of equipping Fab 7, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We anticipate that from time to time we also may expand and add equipment to increase the capacity of our existing fabs, and this may require additional financing. We also expect to incur approximately $180 million for research and development in 2007. Our capital and research and development expenditures will be made in advance of sales. Given the fixed cost nature of our business, we may incur losses if our revenue does not adequately offset the level of depreciation resulting from these planned expenditures, as occurred in 2002, 2003 and 2005. Additionally, our actual expenditures may exceed our planned expenditures for a variety of reasons, including changes in our growth plan, our process technology, market conditions, customer requirements, interest rates and other factors. We may require additional financing to fund our future growth plans and technology upgrades and migrations, including to fund the capital expenditures to equip Fab 7 to its full planned capacity of 45,000 300-mm wafers per month, which is expected to take a number of years and will be paced by customer demand and industry conditions. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available or, if available, that such financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or that any additional financing will not be dilutive to our shareholders or creditors. Failure to maintain high capacity utilization, optimize the technology mix of our semiconductor wafer production and continuously improve our device yields would seriously harm our prospects and financial condition. The key factors that affect our profit margin are our ability to: • maintain high capacity utilization; • optimize the technology mix of our semiconductor wafer production; and 7 Table of Contents • continuously improve our device yields. The term “capacity utilization” means the actual number of semiconductor wafers we have processed at a fabrication facility in relation to the total number of wafers we have the capacity to process. Where we refer to capacity utilization in this document, such capacity utilization includes the utilization of our allocated capacity with SMP. Our capacity utilization affects our operating results because a large percentage of our operating costs are fixed. For example, in 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003, weak market demand and a worldwide overcapacity of semiconductor wafer supply resulted in low utilization rates at our fabs. Our average capacity utilization improved from 58% in 2003 to 77% in 2006 but fluctuated during this period as well. We cannot assure you that market conditions will continue to improve or that the improved market conditions can be sustained. If market conditions were to deteriorate, we may not be able to sustain our capacity utilization. Other factors potentially affecting capacity utilization rates are the complexity and mix of the wafers produced, overall industry conditions, operating efficiencies, the level of customer orders, mechanical failure, disruption of operations due to expansion of operations or relocation of equipment and fire or natural disaster. We are unable to control many of the factors which may affect capacity utilization rates. Because the price of wafers varies significantly, the mix of wafers produced affects revenue and profitability. The value of a wafer is determined by the complexity of the device on the wafer. Production of devices with higher level functionality and greater system-level integration requires more manufacturing steps than the production of less complex devices and commands higher wafer prices. However, increasing the complexity of devices that we manufacture does not necessarily lead to increased profitability because the higher wafer prices for such devices may be offset by depreciation and other costs associated with an increase in capital expenditures needed to manufacture such devices. The term “device yields” means the actual number of usable semiconductor devices on a semiconductor wafer in relation to the total number of devices on the wafer. Our device yields directly affect our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as the prices of our products. If we are unable to maintain high capacity utilization, optimize the technology mix of our wafer production or maintain and improve our device yields, we may not be able to achieve our targeted profit margin, in which case our financial condition could be seriously harmed and the market price of our securities could fall. Risks Related to Our Operations The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the periodic overcapacity that results from this, as well as any rapid change in the end markets we serve, may seriously harm our company. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant economic downturns characterized by production overcapacity, reduced product demand and rapid erosion of ASPs. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand, as we and our competitors have done. As a result, periods of overcapacity in the semiconductor industry have frequently followed periods of increased demand. We expect this pattern to be repeated in the future. In addition, the markets for semiconductors are characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and fluctuations in end-user demand. For example, after experiencing average utilization rates around 100% in 2000, our average utilization rates in 2002 and 2003 fell to 37% and 58%, respectively. In 2004, although our average utilization rate improved to 80%, we experienced market weakness from the second half of June 2004 which continued into the first half of 2005 as the industry worked through excess inventories. Although we experienced subsequent sequential quarterly increases in our utilization rates from the second quarter of 2005, our average utilization rate in 2005 declined to 70%. In 2006, our average utilization rate was 77%. This was mainly due to higher utilization rate of 82% for each of the first and second quarters of the year. During the second half of 2006, companies in the supply chain, including our customers, experienced excess inventory and seasonally weaker than usual market conditions. The inventory correction and weaker market impacted our utilization in the third and fourth quarters of the year resulting in our utilization rates declining in those quarters to 74% and 70%, respectively. We cannot assure you that market conditions will improve in 2007 and beyond. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry may also be severe and could seriously harm our company. We depend on our technology partners to advance our portfolio of process technologies. Enhancing our manufacturing process technologies is critical to our ability to provide services for our customers. We intend to continue to advance our process technologies through our internal research and development efforts and through alliances with leading semiconductor companies, and we are dependent on these partners for this advancement. Our technology alliance with International Business Machines, or IBM, began in November 2002 with a joint development agreement to jointly develop and standardize on 90nm, and 65nm bulk complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or 8 Table of Contents CMOS, processes for foundry chip production on 300-mm silicon wafers. We extended our IBM joint development agreement to include Infineon Technologies AG, or Infineon, in June 2003 and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, or Samsung, in March 2004 in the joint development of a common advanced foundry manufacturing bulk CMOS process technology at 65nm, as well as variants of that process modified for high performance and low power products. We further expanded our joint development efforts with IBM to include 45nm bulk CMOS process technology in December 2004 and 32nm bulk CMOS logic process technology in December 2006. For more information on the joint development agreements with IBM, Infineon and Samsung, please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business Overview — Research and Development.” We depended on our joint development agreements with our technology partners for faster introduction of 90nm and 65nm bulk CMOS process technologies and we continue to depend on our joint development agreement with IBM for faster introduction of 45nm and 32nm bulk CMOS process technologies. If we encounter problems in the successful implementation of our joint development agreements with these technology partners, our strategy of targeting “first-source” business and decreasing the time it takes us to bring the newest technologies to market would be adversely affected. “First source” business refers to being selected as the first manufacturing source for customers’ new product innovations. We would also have to incur additional costs to implement this strategy. If this were to happen, it could seriously harm our company. Our technology alliances have been and may from time to time be subject to changes, including changes in the technology partner’s business strategy (as was the case with Agere Systems Inc.’s “fab-lite” strategy and Agilent Technologies, Inc. ceasing technology development for certain technology nodes). Agere Systems Inc. announced in December 2006 that it has entered into an agreement to merge with LSI Logic Corporation under the LSI Logic name. In February 2007, pursuant to our joint venture agreement with Agere Systems Singapore Pte Ltd, or Agere Systems Singapore, a subsidiary of Agere Systems Inc., relating to SMP, we received a written notice from Agere Systems Singapore that a change of control of Agere Systems Singapore will occur upon the merger of Agere Systems Inc. and LSI logic Corporation which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007. We are still evaluating our options under the joint venture agreement, including exercising our right to require Agere Systems Singapore to sell to us the SMP shares held by Agere Systems Singapore. For more information on these changes, please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business Overview — Strategic Business and Technology Alliances — Chartered Silicon Partners.” Although the changes in our technology partnerships we have experienced so far have not had a significant impact on our company’s performance, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case. If we are unable to continue these technology alliances on mutually beneficial economic terms, if we are unable to comply with any restrictions contained in our technology alliance agreements, or if we are unable to enter into new technology alliances with other leading semiconductor companies, we may not be able to continue providing our customers with leading- edge process technologies, which could seriously harm our company. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. We have been largely dependent on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 72% of our total net revenue for both 2005 and 2006. Our top five customers collectively accounted for approximately 60% of our total net revenue in 2006, compared with approximately 56% of our total net revenue in the previous year. Our top three customers for 2006, in order of revenue contribution, were Broadcom, IBM and Advanced Micro Devices, and each of them contributed more than 10% of our total net revenue in 2006. As the end markets we serve are typically cyclical, our top customer profile may change from period to period depending on the strength of various market sectors. We expect that we will continue to be dependent for a significant portion of our revenue upon a relatively limited number of customers, which from time to time may be concentrated in particular end markets, as a result of which we will be exposed to the volatility of those markets. Depending on a relatively small number of customers can also subject us to concentration problems that can negatively affect our fab utilization, which can in turn affect our revenue and results of operations, such as was experienced in the fourth quarter of 2004. Customer concentration is more significant for our leading-edge process technologies. We cannot assure you that revenue generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Loss or cancellation of business from, significant changes in scheduled deliveries to, quality or reliability issues raised by, or decreases in the prices of services sold to, any of these customers could seriously harm our company. We may not be able to implement new technology as it becomes available which may affect our ability to produce advanced products at competitive prices. The semiconductor industry is rapidly developing and the technology used is constantly evolving. If we do not anticipate the technology evolution and rapidly adopt new and innovative technology, we may not be able to produce sufficiently advanced products to meet market demand or produce such products at competitive prices. There is a risk 9 Table of Contents that our competitors may adopt new technology before we do, resulting in our loss of market share. If we do not continue to produce the most advanced products at competitive prices, our customers may use the services of our competitors instead of our services, which could seriously harm our company. A decrease in demand and average selling prices for end-use applications of semiconductor products such as communications equipment, personal computers, computer peripherals and consumer products may significantly decrease the demand for our services and may result in a decrease in our revenue and gross profit margin. A significant percentage of our revenue is derived from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for communications equipment, personal computers, computer peripherals and consumer products. Any significant decrease in the demand for communications equipment, personal computers, computer peripherals or consumer products may decrease the demand for our services and could seriously harm our company. In addition, the historical and continuing trend of declining ASPs in these end markets places downward pressure on the prices of the components that are used in such equipment. If the ASPs of such equipment continue to decrease, the downward pricing pressure on components produced by our company may reduce our revenue and therefore reduce our gross profit margin significantly. Our ability to successfully collaborate with electronic design automation, intellectual property and design service providers to meet customers’ design needs depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies and our ability to meet our customers’ schedule and budget requirements. We have relationships with electronic design automation, or EDA, intellectual property and design service providers. We work with these service providers to develop a design platform that is tailored to our customers’ design needs. Our ability to successfully meet our customers’ design needs depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies, and on whether we, together with our EDA, intellectual property and design service providers, are able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect the success of our collaboration with EDA, intellectual property and design service providers and consequently, our ability to attract or serve customers, and thereby could seriously harm our company. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance. Therefore, we do not have any significant backlog. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance of the commencement of the manufacture of the product. The time required to manufacture a product depends on the complexity of such product, with the more advanced technology products generally requiring a longer cycle time. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, the length of time between our receipt of the purchase orders from our customers and the commencement date of the manufacture of the products have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our net revenue in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. Our growth, technology capabilities, planned capacity expansion and our competitive position depend on the success of our more advanced manufacturing facilities. Our more advanced manufacturing facilities, especially our 300-mm wafer fab, is critically important to the success of our company in a number of ways. As our more advanced manufacturing facilities will contain our leading-edge manufacturing capacity, any problem in those facilities may limit our ability to manufacture advanced semiconductor products. The process technologies that we intend to use in these facilities arise from our joint development agreements with IBM and other third parties, and any problems with implementing those agreements could have a material and adverse effect on our company. We typically ramp up production at our more advanced manufacturing facilities with a very narrow customer and product base initially. While we believe that this narrow customer base facilitates ramping up production more quickly than we otherwise might be able to do, we also are exposed to a greater risk of customer concentration at those facilities as a result. Any problems that arise with these customer relationships or orders (or lack of demand for the ultimate end-products in which the semiconductors we produce at these facilities are used) can be expected to have a significantly negative impact on the utilization of these facilities, which could have a material and adverse effect on our company. We depend on our strategic business alliances relating to our tabs. Termination or modification of these alliances could seriously harm our company. We currently have two strategic business alliances relating to the operation of Fab 5 and Fab 6. Our equity-method joint venture company, SMP, which owns and operates Fab 5, is a joint venture with Agere Systems Singapore, a 10 Table of Contents subsidiary of Agere Systems Inc. Our subsidiary, Chartered Silicon Partners Pte Ltd, or CSP, which owns and operates Fab 6, is a joint venture with Avago Technologies General IP (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., or Avago, (Avago having acquired all of the shares in CSP previously held by Agilent Technologies Europe B.V. in January 2006), EDB Investments Pte Ltd, or EDB Investments, and Singapex Investments Pte Ltd, or Singapex, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited, or Temasek. Our alliances with these companies and their predecessors gave us access to select leading-edge process technologies and moderated our development costs and capital expenditures in the initial years in Fab 5 and Fab 6. We believe that our alliances with these companies provide us with access to business on an ongoing basis. The termination of either of these alliances or any modification of either alliance which adversely affects our rights under the alliance could seriously harm our company. Please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company— B. Business Overview — Strategic Business and Technology Alliances — Chartered Silicon Partners” and “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business Overview — Strategic and Technology Alliances — Silicon Manufacturing Partners” for a more detailed description of these alliances. We may not be able to compete successfully in our industry. The worldwide semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with dedicated foundry service providers such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, or TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, as well as the foundry operation services of some integrated device manufacturers, or IDMs, such as IBM. IDMs principally manufacture and sell their own proprietary semiconductor products, but may offer foundry services. Further, new entrants to the semiconductor foundry industry in China, Malaysia and Korea are now becoming increasingly significant. Our competitors may have greater access to capital and substantially greater production, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can. A number of semiconductor manufacturers, including our primary competitors, have announced plans to increase their manufacturing capacity. As a result, we expect that there will be a significant increase in worldwide semiconductor capacity over the next few years. If growth in demand for this capacity fails to match the growth in supply, or occurs more slowly than anticipated, there may be more intense competition and pressure on the pricing of our products and services. Any significant increase in competition may erode our profit margin and weaken our earnings. The principal elements of competition in the wafer foundry market include technical competence, time-to-market, research and development quality, available capacity, device yields, customer service, price, design services, access to intellectual property, EDA and tool support. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future, including our ability to obtain “first source” business, which could seriously harm our company. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenue, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include, among others: • the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; • pricing pressure from competitors in the foundry industry; • changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; • shifts by IDMs between internal and outsourced production; • changes in demand for products that incorporate semiconductors that we produce; • inventory and supply chain management of our customers; • the loss of a key customer or the postponement or reduction of an order from a key customer or the failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivable in a timely manner; • the occurrence of losses from a customer’s inability to pay our accounts receivable from them; • the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders; • the rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; • our inability to qualify new processes or customer products in a timely manner; • the return of wafers due to quality or reliability issues; • malfunction of our wafer production equipment; • unforeseen delays or interruptions in our plans for new fabrication facilities; • the timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; • our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost effective basis; • environmental events or industrial accidents such as fires or explosions; 11 Table of Contents • our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; • our ability to continue with existing, and to enter into new technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; • actual capital expenditures exceeding planned capital expenditures; • currency and interest rate fluctuations that may not be adequately hedged; and • technological changes. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our company. In addition, it is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our securities may underperform comparable securities, or fall. Our business depends in part on our ability to obtain and preserve intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property, as well as the intellectual property of our customers. We seek to protect proprietary information and know-how through the use of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and limited access to and distribution of proprietary information. We have filed and intend to continue to file patent applications when and where appropriate to protect our proprietary technologies. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and may be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Asian countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S. Additionally, we cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology, or reverse engineer our processes, or that our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements upon which we rely to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information will be effective. The occurrence of any such events could seriously harm our company. Please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business — Intellectual Property” for a more detailed description of our proprietary technology. We may be subject to intellectual property rights disputes. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the U.S. and elsewhere until they are published or granted. Although we are not currently a party to any material litigation involving patent infringement, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time received communications from third parties asserting patents that cover certain of our technologies and alleging infringement of certain intellectual property rights of others. We expect to receive similar communications in the future. In the event any third party were to make a valid claim against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using certain process technologies which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain semiconductor products; • pay substantial monetary damages; • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our company could be seriously harmed by such developments. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary in order to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could seriously harm our company. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes A large portion of our operations in Singapore is afforded lower tax rates from tax incentives provided to attract and retain business. These tax incentives are subject to certain conditions with which we expect to comply, such as achieving fixed amounts of capital expenditure and headcount by certain dates. Our taxes could increase if we do not meet the incentive requirements, or tax rates applicable to us in Singapore are otherwise increased. 12 Table of Contents We base our tax positions upon the anticipated results from tax authority examinations. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issues is highly judgmental. There can be no assurance that the outcome from examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may experience difficulty in obtaining insurance coverage without incurring increased costs. While we have been able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the past and while we did not experience any significant increase in premium rates of insurance coverage for 2006, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to do so in the future at similar or reasonable premium rates. For example, following the terrorists attacks on September 11, 2001 in the U.S., the premiums we paid for the renewal of our insurance coverage commencing from January 2002 were 2.2 times more than the premiums we paid for such coverage for the previous year. In the event that we fail to secure adequate coverage in the future at similar or reasonable premium rates, we could be seriously harmed by the occurrence of a loss that is not insured. Risks Related to Manufacturing We may experience difficulty in achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times as a result of manufacturing problems. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve device yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture wafers can cause a percentage of the wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional, which in each case negatively affects our device yields. We have, from time to time, experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays, lower than expected device yields and the replacement of certain vendors of manufacturing equipment used in our production processes. We may also experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems, especially in our more advanced manufacturing facilities. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing facilities, as a result of, among other things, production failures, capacity constraints, construction delays, increasing production at new facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, human errors, equipment malfunction or process contamination, which could seriously harm our company. We depend on our vendors of raw materials, supplies and equipment and do not generally have long-term supply contracts with them. We depend on our vendors of raw materials and supplies. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we must obtain from our vendors, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of quality raw materials and supplies at acceptable prices. We obtain most of our raw materials and supplies, including critical raw materials such as raw semiconductor wafers, from a limited number of vendors. Some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of vendors in limited quantity and their procurement may require a long lead time. We purchase most of our key raw materials and supplies on a purchase order basis. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our vendors. As a result, from time to time due to capacity constraints, vendors have extended lead times or limited the supply of required raw materials and supplies to us. Consequently, from time to time, and particularly during periods of sudden increase in demand, we have experienced and may experience difficulty in obtaining quantities of raw materials that we need on a timely basis. Further, where we only have one qualified supplier for raw materials and supplies and a need subsequently arises to look to other alternative suppliers, we would have to qualify these alternative suppliers, and such qualification could lead to delays in production and seriously harm our company. In addition, from time to time, we may reject raw materials and supplies that do not meet our specifications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality. If our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies in a timely manner is substantially diminished or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials, it could seriously harm our company. We also depend on a limited number of original equipment manufacturers and vendors that make and sell the complex equipment and equipment spare parts that we use in our manufacturing processes. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery and complete qualification of some of this equipment could be as long as 15 months, or even longer. In addition, in the event of shortage of supply of equipment spare parts, we would need to qualify alternative sources and/or equipment spare parts. Any delay in the delivery or increase in the cost or availability of this equipment or equipment spare parts could seriously harm our company. Further, the long lead time reduces our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions. Please see “Item 4. Information on Our Company — B. Business Overview — Equipment and Materials” for additional information regarding our relationships with our suppliers of materials and equipment. 13 Table of Contents We depend on assembly and test subcontractors for our semiconductor assembly and testing requirements. Semiconductor assembly and test operations are an integral part of the semiconductor manufacturing process, and involve specialized equipment and technology. If our customers require products which have been assembled and/or tested, we will need to depend on assembly and test subcontractors to provide us with the assembly, test and wafer bumping services as we do not have such in-house assembly and test capabilities and facilities. Wafer bumping is an advanced packaging technique where “bumps” made of solder are formed on the wafers before they are diced into individual chips. We currently subcontract a significant number of orders for assembly, testing and wafer bumping services to STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (formerly ST Assembly Test Services Ltd), or STATS ChipPAC, as well as to United Test and Assembly Center Limited, or UTAC, ASE Singapore Pte. Ltd., ASE Test Limited and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or collectively ASE, Amkor Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd, and Amkor Technology Taiwan, Ltd, or collectively Amkor, and EEMS Test Singapore Pte. Ltd., or EEMS. STATS ChipPAC, UTAC, ASE, Amkor and EEMS may, from time to time, experience tester capacity constrain and production interruption due to, among other things, technical problems occurring during the assembly, testing and wafer bumping processes. Because STATS ChipPAC, UTAC, ASE, Amkor and EEMS are our major providers of these services, any prolonged interruption in their operations could seriously harm our company. As we migrate to more advanced technologies which may require access to advanced packaging and wafer bumping services, we may experience difficulties in securing such access in a timely manner due to the limited number of vendors providing such services. As our company migrates to more advanced technologies and devices that require very high pin counts (or number of connections to the printed circuit board), the need for advanced packaging and wafer bumping services may increase. The advanced packaging technology is new and there may be initial problems resulting from this. While we have, in the second half of 2006, qualified our subcontractor, Amkor Technology Singapore Pte. Ltd.’s, wafer bumping services in printing and plating technology on our 90nm and 65nm process technology nodes, the availability of such wafer bumping capabilities are limited and are still subject to qualification on our customers’ products. If we are unable to gain access to such advanced packaging and wafer bumping services in a timely manner, or if there is a shortage in the availability of such wafer bumping services, or if there are delays in the qualification of such technology, or if there are disruptions in such services, it would impact our ability to secure business for the more advanced technology nodes and could seriously harm our company. We are subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fire. Although we have implemented industry acceptable risk management controls at our manufacturing locations, the risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated and, in the past, we have had minor interruptions in production as a result of fire. We maintain insurance policies to guard against losses caused by fire. While we believe our insurance coverage for damage to our property and disruption of our business due to fire is adequate, we cannot assure you that it would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, it would temporarily reduce manufacturing capacity and could seriously harm our company. Our failure to comply with certain environmental regulations could seriously harm our company. We are subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Singapore relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our production process. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with such laws and regulations, if we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, our company could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or modify our manufacturing operations at significant costs to us. In addition, we could be required to pay for the cleanup of our properties if they are found to be contaminated even if we are not found to be responsible for the contamination. We maintain insurance policies to guard against certain types of legal liability resulting from sudden, unintended and unexpected pollution causing damage to third parties. Our insurance policies do not cover losses incurred in relation to the cleanup of our properties if they are found to be contaminated by our company. While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot assure you that it would be sufficient to cover all our potential losses. Risks Related to Our Infrastructure We face risks in constructing and equipping new fabrication plants. Where we expand by constructing new fabrication plants, there could be events that could delay the project or 14 Table of Contents increase the costs of construction and equipping, even if we take the project management and planning steps we believe are necessary to complete the new fabrication plants on schedule and within budget. Such potential events include: • a major design and/or construction change caused by changes to the initial building space utilization plan or equipment layout; • technological, capacity and other changes to our plans for new fabrication plants necessitated by changes in market conditions; • shortages and late delivery of building materials and facility equipment; • delays in the installation, commissioning and qualification of our facility equipment; • a long and intensive wet season that limits construction; • a shortage of foreign construction workers or a change in immigration laws preventing such workers from entering Singapore; • strikes and labor disputes; • on-site construction problems such as industrial accidents, fires and structural collapse; • delays in securing the necessary governmental approvals and land lease; • delays arising from modifications in capacity expansion plans as a result of uncertainty in economic conditions; and • delays arising from demand exceeding supply and long lead times for delivery of equipment during periods of growth in the industry. We depend on key personnel and due to the shortage of skilled labor in Singapore, and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of skilled employees. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior executives and our engineering, marketing, customer services, manufacturing, support and other personnel. In addition, in connection with our growth plans, we are likely to need a greater number of experienced engineers and other employees in the future. The competition for skilled professionals remains intense and there is a shortage of such personnel in Singapore. Accordingly, we must recruit our personnel internationally. This is more expensive than hiring personnel locally, and therefore increases our operating costs. As of December 31, 2006, a majority of our employees were citizens of countries other than Singapore. We expect demand for personnel in Singapore to increase significantly in the future, particularly as new wafer fabrication facilities, including those of our competitors, are established in Singapore. We use share options and employee share purchase plans as compensation tools to attract and retain our personnel. Recent changes to the accounting standards applicable to our company require us to record share-based compensation charges as a result of those plans. If we were to terminate these plans, or were to modify such plans with decreased benefits to employees or were to reduce the share grants made under these plans to avoid or minimize an adverse impact on our financial results, we may become uncompetitive from an employee compensation perspective and may not be able to continue to attract and/or retain required personnel, which could seriously harm our company. If we were to lose the services of any of our existing key personnel without adequate replacements, or were unable to attract and retain experienced personnel as we grow, it could seriously harm our company. For example, although we strive to retain employees that we send on assignments with our technology partners, such as IBM, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining these employees or that if our employees leave, our technology partners would re-train their replacements, If our employees leave, this may limit our ability to benefit from the alliances and could seriously harm our company. We do not carry insurance to protect us against the loss of any of our key personnel. Risks Related to Covenants in Our Agreements Many of our loans contain financial and other covenants which may restrict our operational and financing activities in ways that restrict our growth or are otherwise not in the best interests of our company or holders of our securities. Many of our loans contain various financial and other restrictive covenants. Among other things, these covenants require the maintenance of certain financial ratios (including total debt to net worth) and that Temasek owns, directly or indirectly, at least a certain percentage of our outstanding shares or is our single largest shareholder. These covenants may restrict our operational and financing activities in ways that restrict our growth or are otherwise not in the best interests of our company or holders of our securities. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we could be in default under these loans and the lenders would have the right to accelerate our obligation to repay the outstanding borrowings under these loans. Such default could also cause cross-defaults under other loans which could seriously harm us. In addition, many of our loans require that we obtain prior written consent from our lenders prior to incurring indebtedness or creating security interests over our assets. Consequently, although we have been able to obtain such 15 Table of Contents lender consent in the past, we may be limited in our ability to obtain future financing. Any inability to obtain such future financing could seriously harm our company. Risks Related to Investments in a Controlled Corporation Temasek controls our company and its interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2006, Temasek through its subsidiary Singapore Technologies Semiconductors Pte Ltd, or ST Semiconductors, beneficially owned approximately 59.56% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Temasek’s sole shareholder is the Minister for Finance (Incorporated), a body corporate constituted under the Minister for Finance (Incorporation) Act, Chapter 183 of Singapore. Accordingly, Temasek is able to exercise control over many matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. We also have contractual and other business relationships with several of Temasek’s affiliates and may engage in material transactions with them from time to time. Although the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors will review all material transactions between our company and Temasek and such affiliates, circumstances may arise in which the interests of Temasek and such affiliates could conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Because Temasek, through its subsidiary, ST Semiconductors, beneficially owns a significant portion of our ordinary shares, it could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a transaction of that nature would be beneficial to our other shareholders. Our Articles of Association do not contain any provision requiring that Temasek and/or its affiliates own at least a majority of our ordinary shares. Please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” for additional information regarding our relationship with Temasek, Singapore Technologies Pte Ltd, or Singapore Technologies, and their affiliates. Risks Related to Investment in a Corporation with International Operations Economic conditions where our customers and their markets are located may have a negative impact on our revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers whose semiconductors are used in products that are sold in the U.S., Taiwan, Japan, Europe and other countries in East and Southeast Asia. Our results of operations in the future could be negatively impacted if the economic environment in these countries deteriorates. For example, in 1998, many countries in Asia experienced considerable currency volatility and depreciation, high interest rates and declining asset values. As a result, there was a general decline in business and consumer spending and a decrease in economic growth as compared with prior years. Our results of operations in 1998 were affected by overall regional economic conditions because demand for semiconductor products generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and falls as activity decreases. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on September 11, 2001 in the U.S. and other acts of violence or war, have the potential to have a direct impact on our customers. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the U.S. and any other places in which our customers’ markets are located or affect the countries where our operations are located, our business may be significantly impacted. In addition, terrorist attacks or another act of war could adversely impact the transportation of our products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition and thereby could seriously harm our company. Outbreak of an infectious disease or any other serious public health concerns in Asia (including Singapore) and elsewhere could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The outbreak of an infectious disease in Asia (including Singapore) and elsewhere, together with any resulting restrictions on travel or quarantines imposed, could have a negative impact on the economies, financial markets and business activities in countries in which our end markets are located and thereby adversely impact our revenue. Examples are the outbreak in 2003 of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, in East Asia and the outbreaks of Avian Influenza, or Bird Flu, in 2004 and 2005 in Asia and currently around the world. While we took precautionary measures in response to the outbreak of SARS in 2003, we cannot assure you that any precautionary measures we may take against SARS or any other infectious diseases in the future would be effective. A future outbreak of an infectious disease or any other serious public health concern could seriously harm our company. 16 Table of Contents We operate internationally and are therefore affected by problems in other countries. Our principal customers are located in the U.S., Taiwan, Japan and Europe and our principal vendors are located in the U.S., Japan, Taiwan, Korea, Europe and Malaysia. As a result, we are affected by economic and political conditions in those countries, including: • fluctuations in the values of currencies; • changes in labor conditions; • longer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political and economic instability; • increases in duties and taxation; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • limitations on imports or exports; • expropriation of private enterprises; and • reversal of the current policies (including favorable tax and lending policies) encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. The geographical distances between Asia, the Americas and Europe also create a number of logistical and communications challenges. Although we have not experienced any serious harm in connection with our international operations, we cannot assure you that such problems will not arise in the future. Exchange rate fluctuations may increase our costs and capital expenditures, which could affect our operating results and financial position. Our revenue is generally denominated in U.S. dollars and our operating expenses are generally incurred in U.S. dollars and Singapore dollars. Our capital expenditures are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen, Euros and Singapore dollars. Although we hedge a portion of the resulting net foreign exchange position through the use of forward exchange contracts and the maintenance of foreign currency bank deposits, we are still particularly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S dollar and the above mentioned currencies. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may lead to an increase in our costs and capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We may be a passive foreign investment company. Based on our asset composition and operations, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under U.S. tax laws during 2006. However, there can be no assurances that we will not be a PFIC in 2007 or in a later year. If the “passive income” earned by us exceeds 75% or more of our “gross income,” we will be a PFIC under the “income test.” In addition, we will be a PFIC under the “asset test” if at least 50% of the quarterly average value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held to produce passive income. The determination of the value of our assets will be based in part on the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Because we have historically held, and may continue to hold a substantial amount of passive assets, there is a risk that we may be a PFIC in 2007 or in a later year. Passive income for PFIC purposes includes, among other things, interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we were to become a PFIC at any time during a U.S. person’s holding period, such U.S. person holding ordinary shares or ADS would be required, if the “mark to market” election were not made, to pay an interest charge on certain distributions from us or upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs and face other adverse tax consequences. Please see “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Taxation — PFIC rules.” It is strongly urged that U.S. persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the application of the PFIC rules. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of the members of our Board of Directors under Singapore law may be different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the U.S. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our Board of Directors or our controlling shareholder than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the U.S. For example, controlling shareholders in U.S. corporations are subject to fiduciary duties while controlling shareholders in Singapore corporations are not subject to such duties. Please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” for a discussion relating to our controlling shareholder, Temasek, 17 Table of Contents and its affiliates. It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or our affiliates. Our company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Singapore. Many of our directors and senior management, and some of the experts named in this document, reside outside the U.S. In addition, virtually all of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or any of these persons or to enforce in the U.S. any judgment obtained in the U.S. courts against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. or any state or territory of the U.S. Judgments of the U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. may not be enforceable in Singapore courts, and there is doubt as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. Singapore law contains provisions that could discourage a take-over of our company. The Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers contains certain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a future take-over or change in control of our company. Any person acquiring an interest (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) in 30% or more of our voting shares may be required to extend a take-over offer for our remaining voting shares in accordance with the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers. A take-over offer may also be required to be made if a person holding (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) between 30% and 50% (both inclusive) of our voting shares acquires (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) additional voting shares representing more than 1% of our voting shares in any six-month period. These provisions may discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control of our company. Some of our shareholders, which may include you, may therefore be disadvantaged as a transaction of that kind might have allowed the sale of the shares at a price above the prevailing market price. Risks Related to Our Securities and Our Trading Market The future sales of securities by our company or existing shareholders may hurt the price of our securities. If we or our shareholders sell a large number of our securities in the public market the trading price of such securities could decrease dramatically. Any perception that these sales could occur could also result in a dramatic decline in the trading price of our securities. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. All of our outstanding shares are freely tradable in Singapore and in the U.S. (in the form of ADSs), except that the shares owned by our affiliates, including ST Semiconductors, may be sold in the U.S. only if they are registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. The market prices of our securities have been and may continue to be highly volatile. The market prices of our securities have fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. For example, from our initial public offering in October 1999 through December 31, 2006, the trading price of our ADSs, adjusted for the October 2002 Rights Offering, has ranged from a high of $95.07 per ADS to a low of $3.48 per ADS. During the same period, the trading price of our ordinary shares, adjusted for the October 2002 Rights Offering, has ranged from a high of S$16.03 per ordinary share to a low of S$0.63 per ordinary share. Many factors could cause the market prices of our securities to rise and fall. Some of these factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts; • market conditions in the semiconductor industry and economy as a whole; • introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in market valuations of other foundries and semiconductor companies; • announcements made by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • problems in our advanced manufacturing facilities; • announcements made by our customers of their performance or financial results and of their foundry alliances and relationships; • market rumors or speculation about our business, operations, capital raising, change in our controlling shareholder or affairs; 18 Table of Contents • issue of additional equity or equity linked offerings; • significant reduction or increase of shareholding by our controlling shareholder; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The financial markets in the U.S., Singapore and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of technology companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the prices of our securities may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The Singapore securities market is relatively small and more volatile than the U.S. markets and may cause the market price of our securities to fluctuate. The Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, or Singapore Exchange, is relatively small and more volatile than stock exchanges in the U.S. and certain European countries. As of December 31, 2006, there were 539 companies listed on the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange and the aggregate market capitalization of listed equity securities of these companies was approximately S$580.0 billion, or $378.1 billion (based on the noon buying rate as of December 29, 2006 of S$1.5338 to $1.00). For the year ended December 31, 2006, the aggregate equity trading value on the Singapore Exchange (including shares traded on the CLOB International trading system) was approximately S$291.2 billion or $189.9 billion (based on the noon buying rate as of December 29, 2006 of S$1.5338 to $1.00). The relatively small market capitalization of, and trading volume on, the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange may cause the market price of securities of listed companies, including our securities, to fluctuate in both the domestic and the international markets. Your voting rights with respect to the ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement for the ADSs. Holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Singapore law or under our Articles of Association that limit ADS holders’ ability to exercise their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying ordinary shares. However, there are practical limitations upon the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with such holders. For example, our Articles of Association require us to notify our shareholders at least 14 days in advance of any annual general meeting unless a special resolution is to be passed at that meeting, in which case at least 21 days’ notice must be given. Our ordinary shareholders will receive notice directly from us and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Rather, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the depositary, which will in turn, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to holders of ADSs: • the notice of such meeting; • voting instruction forms; and • a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the depositary how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of ordinary shares. ADSs for which the depositary does not receive timely voting instructions will not be voted at any meeting. Except as described in this document, holders will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ADSs. Your ability to participate in any rights offering of our company is limited. We distributed in October 2002, and may from time to time distribute, rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities under the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. The depositary will not offer rights to holders in any jurisdictions unless both the rights and the securities to which such rights relate are either exempt from registration under the applicable securities laws of such jurisdictions or are registered in accordance with the provisions of such laws. However, we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our securities may be unable to participate in rights offerings by us and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. 19 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements, as defined in the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of these forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements relating to: • our business strategy; • our outlook for 2007; • our capacity utilization rate, production capacity and production capacity mix; • our plans to expand our production capacity for 90nm and smaller process geometry technologies to meet the anticipated needs of our customers; • our 2007 planned capital expenditures, research and development expenditures, depreciation and amortization and wafer capacity; and • our sources of liquidity, cash flow, funding needs and financings; These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: • changes in the demands from our major customers, excess inventory, life cycle, market outlook and trends or specific products; • competition from other foundries; • unforeseen delays, interruptions, performance level and technology mix in our fabrication facilities; • our progress on leading-edge products; • changes in capacity plans, changes in allocation and process technology mix, and the unavailability of materials, equipment, manpower and expertise; • access to or delays in technological advances or our development of process technologies; • the successful implementation of our technology and supply alliances (including our joint development agreements with IBM, Infineon and Samsung); • the growth rate of fabless companies, the outsourcing strategy of IDMs and our expectation that IDMs will utilize foundry capacity more extensively; • demand and supply outlook in the semiconductor market and the economic conditions in the United States as well as globally; • the availability of financings and the terms thereof; and • terrorist attacks, acts of war, or the possibility of an outbreak of Bird Flu or any other infectious disease in Singapore, as well as other parts of the world. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained. In addition to the foregoing factors, a description of certain other risks and uncertainties which cause actual results to differ materially can be found in “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this document. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s current analysis of future events. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 