Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In its report dated April 29, 2009, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that the uncertainty created by our inability to repay or replace our holding company's line of credit or to obtain a waiver of covenant defaults on that line of credit through December 31, 2009 raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The lender has agreed in writing not to pursue the collateral underlying the line of credit through June 30, 2009. All other terms and conditions of the loan documents will continue to exist and may be exercised at any time. Our board of directors is actively considering strategic alternatives to secure additional capital for a variety of corporate purposes, including providing the funds needed to repay the outstanding balance on our line of credit in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreement. We can give no assurance that a capital transaction or other strategic alternative, once identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our shareholders than that reflected in the current stock price. In addition, a transaction, which would likely involve equity financing, would result in substantial dilution to our current shareholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. If we are unable to identify and execute a viable strategic alternative, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Therefore, there is a risk the lender may declare an event of default under the line of credit, revoke the line of credit and attempt to exercise available remedies under the loan agreement including foreclosing on our bank stock collateral if the current agreement preventing this action until June 30, 2009 is not renewed. We have sustained losses from a decline in credit quality and may see further losses. Our ability to generate earnings is significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We have sustained losses primarily because borrowers, guarantors, or related parties have failed to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and we failed to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. We could sustain additional losses for these reasons. Problems with credit quality or asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have recently identified credit deficiencies with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the downturn in the residential housing industry. The residential housing market has been substantially affected by the current economic environment, increased levels of inventories of unsold homes, and higher foreclosure rates. As a result, property values for this type of collateral have declined substantially. In response to this determination, we increased our loan loss reserve during 2008 to $18.0 million to address the risks inherent within our loan portfolio. Recent developments, including further deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market as a whole, may cause management to adjust its opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may have higher loan losses than we have allowed for in our allowance for loan losses. Our loan losses could exceed our allowance for loan losses. Our average loan size has increased in recent years over historic levels, and reliance on our historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. As of December 31, 2008, we had $114.1 million in loans on our classified list, including loans classified since December 31, 2008. Classified loans are loans graded as substandard, doubtful or loss. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or entire chargeoff. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including: • cost overruns; • declining property values; • mismanaged construction; • inferior or improper construction techniques; 29 • economic changes or downturns during construction; • rising interest rates that may prevent sale of the property; and • failure to sell completed projects or units in a timely manner. The occurrence of any of the preceding risks could result in the deterioration of one or more of these loans which could significantly increase our percentage of nonperforming assets. An increase in nonperforming loans may result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the related provision for loan losses and an increase in chargeoffs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our bank’s recent examination by the OCC, we have become subject to a consent order pursuant to which the OCC will require us to take certain actions. The bank’s primary federal regulator, the OCC, recently completed a safety and soundness examination of the bank, which included a review of our asset quality. We have received the final report from this examination. In addition, the bank entered into a consent order with the OCC on April 27, 2009, which contains a requirement that our bank achieve and maintain minimum capital requirements that exceed the minimum regulatory capital ratios for “well-capitalized” banks by August 25, 2009. As a result of the terms of the executed consent order, the bank is no longer deemed “well-capitalized,” regardless of its capital levels. Under this enforcement action, we no longer meet the regulatory requirements to be eligible for expedited processing of branch applications and certain other regulatory approvals, and we are required to obtain OCC or FDIC approval before making certain payments to departing executives and before adding new directors or senior executives. Our regulators have considerable discretion in whether to grant required approvals, and no assurance can be given that such approvals would be forthcoming. In addition, we will be required to take certain other actions in the areas of capital, liquidity, asset quality and interest rate risk management, as well as to file periodic reports with the OCC regarding our progress in complying with the order. We expect that the matters covered by our commitments, and the requirements of the executed formal enforcement action, are and would be appropriate and prudent responses to the issues facing us. Any material failure to comply with the terms of the consent offer could result in further enforcement action by the OCC. While we intend to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the consent order, we may be unable to comply fully with the deadlines or other terms of the consent order. Our bank may become subject to a federal conservatorship or receivership if it cannot comply with the consent order, or if its condition continues to deteriorate. As noted above, the executed consent order requires us to create and implement a capital plan, including provisions for contingency funding arrangements. In addition, the condition of our loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete our capital and other financial resources. Should we fail to comply with the capital and liquidity funding requirements in the consent order, or suffer a continued deterioration in our financial condition, we may be subject to being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership by the OCC, with the FDIC appointed as conservator or receiver. If these events occur, we probably would suffer a complete loss of the value of our ownership interest in the bank and we subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by the FDIC and the OCC. If we do not perform well, we may be required to increase the valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate taxable income from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Charges to increase the valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 30 A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and the recent weakening of the local real estate market could continue to hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 89.8% of our loans had real estate as the primary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. As of December 31, 2008, total residential construction and development loans totaled $56.1 million, or 8.1% of the loan portfolio. These loans carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing real estate since repayment is dependent on the ultimate completion of the project or home and usually on the sale of the property or permanent financing. Slow housing conditions have affected some of these borrowers’ ability to sell the completed projects in a timely manner. Although we believe that the combination of specific reserves in the allowance for loan losses and established impairments of these loans will be adequate to account for the current risk associated with the residential construction loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008, there can be no assurances in this regard. Recently, there has been a weakening of the residential real estate market and property values have been impacted negatively in our primary market areas. This weakened market has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. The lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio makes it difficult to assess the adequacy of our loan loss reserves accurately. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; • our historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating credit losses, since any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. In addition, due to our rapid growth over the past several years and our limited operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio were originated in recent years. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as seasoning. As a result, a portfolio of more mature loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If chargeoffs in future periods increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would decrease our net income and possibly our capital. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels to reflect the changing risk inherent in our portfolio of existing loans and any additions to our loan portfolio,, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan chargeoffs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision of loans charged off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our decisions regarding credit risk may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed our loan loss reserves. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: 31 • the duration of the credit; • credit risks of a particular customer; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory limits, in certain circumstances we have made loans that exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory limits, or both. Pending final review by CLO and Credit Administration, as of December 31, 2008, approximately $96.6 million, or approximately 13.6% of our loans, net of unearned income, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory limits. We generally consider making such loans only after taking into account the financial strength of the borrower. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory limits, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies or defaults in our portfolio. Any such delinquencies or defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We have historically relied on dividends from our bank as a viable source of funds to service our holding company’s operating expenses, which are typically dividends and interest payments on preferred stock and other borrowings; however, given our bank's recent losses, this source of liquidity is no longer viable. Therefore, we have a greater dependence on other funding sources to cover these expenses, such as drawing on our holding company’s line of credit with a correspondent bank. As outlined in the terms of our current waiver, we will not be permitted to make additional draws on our line of credit other than to pay interest on the line of credit while we are not in compliance with all covenants associated with the line of credit. Due to the increase in our nonperforming assets and the negative impact on our profitability, we are not in compliance with three of these covenants and are operating under a temporary waiver of these covenant defaults that is in effect until the lender completes its quarterly review of our December 31, 2008 financial statements relating to noncompliance with these covenants. In addition, the lender has agreed to not pursue the collateral underlying the line of credit through June 30, 2009. All other terms and conditions of the loan documents will continue to exist and may be exercised at any time by the lender. Future waivers are discretionary and will be granted based on our correspondent bank’s review of our quarterly financial information. There is no assurance that our lender will grant any future waivers. Traditionally, the primary sources of funds of our bank subsidiary are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include proceeds from FHLB advances, sales of investment securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. There can be no assurance these sources will be sufficient to meet our future liquidity demands. In addition, several of these sources have become restricted as a result of the issuance of our final regulatory examination report and the terms of the executed consent order with the OCC on April 27, 2009. Our decision not to declare a dividend on our noncumulative preferred stock for the first quarter of 2009 and our intention to defer interest on our trust preferred securities will likely restrict our access to the debt capital markets until such time as we are current on our interest payments, which will further limit our sources of liquidity. In light of the current period of volatility in the financial markets and our net loss for 2008, our board of directors did not declare a dividend for the first quarter of 2009 to our preferred shareholders. The board expects to evaluate the decision to declare future dividends to preferred shareholders on a quarterly basis and may resume payment of these dividends in future quarters. We also intend to defer future quarterly interest payments on our trust preferred securities as allowed by the terms of the underlying documents for similar reasons. 32 Because we have ceased to be deemed "well-capitalized" under applicable regulatory standards, we will no longer be able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits and will be forced to find other sources of liquidity, limit our growth and/or sell assets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. The bank’s total risk-based capital ratio, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, and leverage capital ratio were 9.75%, 8.48%, and 7.23%, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. Generally, the regulatory guidelines for these measures for a bank to be considered "well-capitalized" are 10.00%, 6.00%, and 5.00%, respectively. However, the bank entered into a consent order with the OCC on April 27, 2009, which contains a requirement that our bank achieve and maintain minimum capital requirements by August 25, 2009 that exceed the minimum regulatory capital ratios for “well-capitalized” banks. As a result of the terms of the executed consent order, the bank is no longer deemed “well-capitalized” regardless of its capital levels. As a result, we are not able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits without a waiver from the FDIC. Under FDIC regulations, "well-capitalized" insured depository institutions may accept brokered deposits without restriction. “Adequately capitalized” insured depository institutions may accept, renew, or roll over brokered deposits with a waiver from the FDIC (subject to certain restrictions on payments of interest rates), while “undercapitalized” insured depository institutions may not accept or renew brokered deposits. There is no assurance that the FDIC will grant us a waiver. As of December 31, 2008, we had brokered deposits of $150.2 million, of which $131.6 million are scheduled to mature prior to December 31, 2009. Because of the consent order we will seek to find other sources of liquidity to replace these deposits as they mature while we pursue a waiver from the FDIC to regain our ability to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits, which is not assured. As a result, we must limit our growth, raise additional capital, and/or sell assets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may face damage to our reputation and business as a result of negative publicity, including increase in deposit outflows. Recent negative publicity that has been experienced due to our weak earnings performance, coupled with the substantial drop in our stock price over the last few quarters, has resulted in a minor level of deposit outflows. We believe that approximately 16.7% of our deposits are above FDIC insurance limits, and these deposits are particularly susceptible to withdrawal based on negative publicity about our current financial condition. In addition, the increase in FDIC insurance limits to $250,000 per depositor from $100,000 per depositor is only in place through December 31, 2009. We cannot predict whether the limit will be maintained or reduced when it expires. Future negative news, such as information about the OCC consent order executed on April 27, 2009, or a default notice on our line of credit with our correspondent bank, could raise withdrawal levels beyond the capacity of our currently available liquidity, which would result in a takeover of the bank by the FDIC. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in avoiding damage to our business from a decline in our reputation. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the capital markets in the latter half of 2007 and in 2008 and the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009 have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could adversely impact our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. 33 Continuation of the economic downturn could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets. The current economic downturn has negatively affected the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. So far in 2009, there has been a continuation of the economic downturn or prolonged recession, an extension of which would likely result in the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 91.7% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2008. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely affected by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. We face strong competition for customers in our market areas, which could prevent us from obtaining customers and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits. The banking business is highly competitive and the level of competition facing us may increase further. We experience competition in our markets from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We compete with these types of institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many competitors are well established, larger financial institutions, such as BB&T, Bank of America, and Wachovia with substantially greater access to capital and other resources. These institutions offer larger lending limits and some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. In new markets, we will also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. Our relatively smaller size can be a competitive disadvantage due to the lack of multi-state geographic diversification and the inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our markets and may have to pay higher interest rates, as we have done in some marketing promotions in the past to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition to paying higher interest rates to attract deposits, we may need to find alternative funding sources to fund the growth in our loan portfolio. In 2008, deposit growth was not sufficient to fund our loan growth and we have used proceeds from Federal Home Loan Bank advances, out-of-market time deposits and principal and interest payments on available-for-sale securities to make up the difference. However, our borrowing ability is limited and has become more limited since our bank entered into the consent order with the OCC on April 27, 2009. Thus, we may face contraction in our net interest margin if we must pay higher rates for deposits and borrowings to sustain our liquidity. Changes in interest rates and our ability to successfully manage interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends in large part on the net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We believe that we are liability sensitive over a one-year time frame, which means that our net interest income will generally rise in falling interest rate environments and decline in rising interest rate environments. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if the market interest rate changes such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Right now, short-term interest rates are at an all-time low, while time deposit rates remain stubbornly high. This has severely squeezed our net interest margin. If this situation persists, it could have a significant adverse affect on our profitability. We need to raise additional capital that may not be available. Regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As described above, we have an immediate need to increase our capital ratios which requires us to raise additional capital and/or reduce the size of our balance sheet. In addition, even if we succeed in raising this capital, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support continued growth. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital may not be raised, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to increase our capital ratios could be materially impaired. In addition, if we issue additional equity capital, our existing shareholders' interest would be diluted. 34 The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay our liabilities as they come due. As an FDIC-insured institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid $529,000 in deposit insurance assessments. Due to the recent failure of several unaffiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions, and the FDIC’s new liquidity guarantee program, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks will increase. In addition to the increases to deposit insurance assessments approved by the FDIC, the bank’s risk category has also changed as a result of the recent regulatory examination which will also increase the bank’s premium assessments in 2009. The FDIC has also proposed imposing a 20-basis point special emergency assessment payable September 30, 2009, with authorization of the FDIC board to implement an additional 10 basis-point premium in any quarter. In addition, the FDIC has indicated that it intends to propose changes to the deposit insurance premium assessment system that will shift a greater share of any increase in such assessments onto institutions with higher risk profiles, including banks with heavy reliance on brokered deposits, such as our bank. As a result, we anticipate our future insurance costs to be substantially higher than in previous periods. We may not be able to reduce the balance on our holding company’s outstanding line of credit with a correspondent bank. We have drawn approximately $9.5 million upon a revolving line of credit with a correspondent bank in the amount of $15 million. We pledged all of the stock of our bank subsidiary as collateral for the line of credit, which contains various debt covenants. As of December 31, 2008, we were not in compliance with certain covenants related to net income and asset quality contained in our related loan agreement. As outlined in the terms of our current waiver, we will not be permitted to make additional draws on our line of credit other than to pay interest on the line of credit while we are not in compliance with the covenants. We are currently operating under a waiver of covenant defaults as of September 30, 2008 that is in effect until the lender completes its quarterly review of our December 31, 2008 financial statements relating to noncompliance with these covenants. We believe that the lender will continue to grant us such future waivers quarterly, but we do not have any assurances in this regard. The lender has agreed not to pursue the collateral underlying the line of credit through June 30, 2009. All other terms and conditions of the loan documents will continue to exist and may be exercised at any time by the lender. Therefore, there is a risk that the lender may declare an event of default under the line of credit when our current waiver expires, revoke the line of credit and attempt to foreclose on our bank stock collateral if we are unable to pay off the outstanding balance on the line of credit or obtain future waivers. Our core customer base of small- to medium-sized businesses may have fewer financial resources to weather the recent downturn in the economy. We target the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If the recent harsh economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, was signed into law on October 3, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and may continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. In addition, the FDIC created the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) as part of a larger government effort to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the nation’s banking system. The TLGP has two components. First, the FDIC will provide a complete guarantee of certain unsecured debt of participating organizations issued before June 30, 2009. Second, the FDIC will provide full insurance coverage for noninterest bearing transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount, until December 31, 2009. The Company did not opt out of the TLGP so its noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully FDIC-insured. 35 There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” We have only recently adopted our new business plan and may not be able to implement it effectively. Our future performance will depend on our ability to implement our new business plan successfully. This implementation will involve a variety of complex tasks, including reducing our level of NPAs by continuing to aggressively work problem credits, exploring a bulk sale of loans or OREO, and possibly requiring significant write-downs to facilitate disposition. We will also continue to increase core deposits, reduce dependency on wholesale funding (brokered CD’s and FHLB borrowings) and increase low cost accounts (DDA’s, NOW, etc.). This should help expand our net interest margin and earnings without requiring additional capital. Any failure or delay in executing these initiatives, whether due to regulatory delays or for other reasons, which may be beyond our control, is likely to impede, and could ultimately preclude, our successful implementation of our business plan and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We have historically grown at a rapid rate, but in the current economic climate we will likely not be able to grow our business as we have in the past and we may decide to contract our business through the sale of some of our assets. Consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses and would not experience a proportionate decrease. Significant risks accompany our recent expansion. We have recently experienced significant growth by opening new branches or loan production offices and through acquisitions. Such expansion could place a strain on our resources, systems, operations, and cash flow. Our ability to manage this expansion will depend on our ability to monitor operations and control costs, maintain effective quality controls, expand our internal management and technical and accounting systems and otherwise successfully integrate new branches and acquired businesses. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition, and operating results will be negatively impacted. Risks associated with our recent acquisition activity include the following: • inaccuracies in estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to our recently acquired institution or its assets; • our lack of experience in markets into which we have entered; • difficulties and expense in integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; • loss of key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • impairment of total loss of goodwill associated with our acquisition. We may not be able to integrate any banks we have acquired successfully. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. 36 We depend on key individuals, and the unexpected loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. Jerry L. Calvert, our president and chief executive officer, has substantial experience with our operations and has contributed significantly to our growth since our founding. If we lose Mr. Calvert's services, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success is dependent on the personal contacts and local experience of Mr. Calvert and other key management personnel in each of our market areas. Our success also depends in part on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as our ability to retain current key executive management personnel, including our chief financial officer, Kitty B. Payne, and our chief lending officer, David H. Zabriskie. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these executive officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of the services of several of these key personnel could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects to the extent we are unable to replace such personnel. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the OCC, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of branches. We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain "well-capitalized" and "well managed" for regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, and our ability to make acquisitions. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the effects of these changes on our business and profitability cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and expand our business through opening new branch offices. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public, and the FDIC, not shareholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations, and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant change in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Moreover, as a regulated entity, we can be requested by regulators to implement changes to our operations. In the past we have addressed areas of regulatory concern through the adoption of board resolutions and improved policies and procedures. Changes in federal laws could adversely affect our wholesale mortgage division. Changes in federal laws regarding the oversight of mortgage brokers and lenders could adversely affect our ability to originate, finance, and sell residential mortgage loans. The enactment of federal laws, such as licensing requirements for mortgage brokers, applicable to the types of mortgage loans originated could increase costs of operations and adversely affect origination volume, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved staff comments with the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 