ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors that we do not presently perceive to present significant risks to us at this time may also impair our operations. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not have adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future. On April 8, 2011 we entered into, and on June 30, 2011 we consummated the initial transactions under, a stock purchase agreement with ERBA Mannheim, pursuant to which we agreed to sell and issue to ERBA Mannheim an aggregate of 20,000,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $15,000,000, or $0.75 per share, and warrants to purchase an additional 20,000,000 shares of our common stock with a five-year term and an exercise price per share equal to $0.75. The warrants are exercisable only to the extent that shares of our common stock have been purchased under the stock purchase agreement. The stock purchase agreement was amended on December 29, 2011 and on October 3, 2012. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to the stock purchase agreement shall mean the stock purchase agreement as so amended. Through December 31, 2012, under the stock purchase agreement, we have issued and sold to ERBA Mannheim a total of 15,333,334 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $11,500,000. As of December 31, 2012, under the stock purchase agreement, we remained obligated to issue and sell, and ERBA Mannheim remained obligated to purchase, another 4,666,666 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $3,500,000, on the date that is 60 days after the date on which a majority of the independent directors on our board of directors determines by vote or written consent that such issuance, sale and purchase shall occur and causes notice thereof to be delivered to ERBA Mannheim. Through December 31, 2012, under the stock purchase agreement, ERBA Mannheim has exercised warrants by paying to us an aggregate exercise price of $450,000 and, in connection therewith, we issued to ERBA Mannheim 600,000 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, under the stock purchase agreement, warrants to purchase a total of 19,400,000 shares of our common stock remained unexercised, and warrants were exercisable for 14,733,334 shares of our common stock. The net proceeds of the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement may not provide adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future. On March 1, 2013, we entered into a loan agreement with Citibank, N.A., which provides for a secured, revolving credit facility of up to $2,000,000. The line of credit may not provide adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future. In addition to the sources of equity and debt financing described above, we have implemented strategies to reduce our expenses and in an effort to improve our cash flows. We cannot guarantee that we can generate net income, increase revenues, continue to reduce expenses, improve our cash flow or otherwise improve our liquidity, whether from existing operations, strategic initiatives or existing or possible future sources of liquidity, including, without limitation, from the line of credit or the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement, issuing debt or equity securities, incurring indebtedness or curtailing or reducing our operations, and, if we cannot do so, then we may not be able to survive and any investment in our company may be lost. The remaining transactions contemplated by the investment under the stock purchase agreement may not be consummated on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all. The remaining transactions contemplated by the investment under the stock purchase agreement may not be consummated on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all. While the decision to initiate the consummation of the issuance and sale of the remaining shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock purchase agreement is at the discretion of a majority of the independent directors on our board of directors, ERBA Mannheim, while obligated under the stock purchase agreement to do so, will make its own decision 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS whether, or not, to consummate the purchase of the remaining shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock purchase agreement. Additionally, the decision to exercise the warrants will be made by ERBA Mannheim based upon considerations it deems appropriate, which may include, among other things, the future market price of our common stock, which is subject to volatility and a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Further, when making any such decision to purchase the remaining shares of our common stock or to exercise the warrants, ERBA Mannheim’s interests may conflict with our interests. Further, the warrants may not be exercised, in whole or in part. If any of the foregoing factors was to occur, then we may not have adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future. Our October 2012 acquisition of businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics represents our largest acquisition, has not yet been integrated into our operations and may expose us to risks relating to evaluations of our internal controls. In October 2012, we completed the acquisition from Escalon Medical Corporation of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, our largest and most significant acquisition to date. Our future success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively integrate these acquired businesses into our operations. In our efforts to integrate these acquired businesses into our operations, we may experience difficulties with customers, personnel, systems integration or otherwise. We cannot provide any assurance that these acquired businesses will be successfully integrated into our operations, enhance our competitive position or business prospects or that the anticipated benefits will be realized. Our efforts to integrate these acquired businesses may expose risks relating to the acquired businesses’ internal controls, as these acquired businesses are decentralized with locations in Connecticut, Florida, Texas and previously the United Kingdom. As permitted by the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, our management’s evaluation of and conclusion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 did not include the internal control over financial reporting of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics. However, as of December 31, 2013, we will be required to do so. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Acquisitions, such as our October 2012 acquisition of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, and our efforts to integrate these acquired businesses may disrupt our business operations, distract our management and may not proceed as planned. Acquisitions, such as our October 2012 acquisition from Escalon Medical Corporation of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, and our efforts to integrate these acquired businesses may use significant resources, result in disruptions to our business operations, result in distractions of our management and not proceed as planned and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Acquisitions, such as our October 2012 acquisition from Escalon Medical Corporation of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, and our efforts to integrate these acquired businesses involve a number of special problems and risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations, customers and personnel with the existing businesses; • diversion of management’s attention in connection with integrating the acquired businesses; • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; • difficulty implementing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at the acquired businesses, particularly in light of the decentralized locations in Connecticut, Florida, Texas and previously the United Kingdom; and • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire, such as our October 2012 acquisition from Escalon Medical Corporation of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, may not produce the revenues, earnings, cash flows or business synergies that we anticipated, and the products, services or technologies of the acquired businesses may not perform as we 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues and earnings than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems, integrate the acquired businesses or generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other negative effects on our business. Our growth through acquisitions has placed, and is expected to place, significant demands on us. We have grown our business, including through acquisitions. Businesses that grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. Our growth has placed and is expected to continue to place significant demands on our management, on our accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. We need to continue recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. In addition, we will need to continue to improve our financial, accounting, information and other systems in order to effectively manage our growth. We cannot assure that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully, or that our financial, accounting, information or other systems will be able to successfully accommodate our external and internal growth. Our failure to meet these challenges could materially impair our business. We have limited operating revenue and a history of primarily operational losses. If we continue to incur operating losses, then we may not have sufficient liquidity available to meet our needs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded net revenues of $19.3 million and net loss of $1.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded net revenues of $16.8 million and net loss of $3.3 million. Our principal source of short-term liquidity is, and during the past three years has been, existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. In connection with our evaluation of our operating results, financial condition and cash position, and specifically considering our results of operations and cash utilization during 2011 and 2010, we enacted various measures to reduce expenses in order to improve future cash flow. As a result, our operating results improved in 2012 from the operating results achieved during 2011. During 2011, we also entered into the stock purchase agreement with ERBA Mannheim. On March 1, 2013, we also entered into the line of credit with Citibank, N.A. For the long-term, we intend to utilize principally existing cash and cash equivalents, as well as internally generated funds, which we anticipate will be derived primarily from our operations as well as possible sources of debt and equity financings, including, without limitation, from the line of credit and the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement. There is, however, no assurance that existing cash and cash equivalents will, in the short- or long-term, satisfy all of our cash requirements and fund any losses from operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate on a profitable basis or internally generate funds from our operations. If existing cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to finance operations, if we are unable to operate on a profitable basis or internally generate funds from our operations, or if existing and possible future sources of liquidity described above, including, without limitation, from the line of credit or the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement, are insufficient, then we may be required to curtail or reduce our operations. There can be no assurance that, if we seek to raise additional funds through issuing debt or equity securities or incurring indebtedness, any such additional funds would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are not able to remediate the material weakness relating to our internal controls over financial reporting, then the timing and accuracy of our financial reporting could be adversely affected and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the price of our common stock. As described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to inadequate staffing of our financial accounting office. As a result of our inadequate staffing of our financial accounting office, among other things, at times we have been unable to provide timely account reconciliations. Our remediation efforts to address this material weakness are ongoing and include, among other things, hiring additional qualified personnel and evaluating or undertaking certain improvements to our systems and processes which, if successful, we believe will be sufficient to provide us with the ability to remediate or cure such material weakness in the future. While remediating this material weakness is a very high priority for our management and the audit committee of our board of directors, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter further instances of breakdowns in 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS our internal control over financial reporting. Public disclosure of this material weakness or a failure to promptly complete our remediation effort could cause our common stock price to fall. Additionally, our inability to maintain the operating effectiveness of the financial accounting office could result in material misstatements to our financial statements or other disclosures, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to timely cure our non-compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT or, whether or not timely cured, if we fall below the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT again, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE MKT. On April 17, 2013, we received a letter from the NYSE MKT, or the Exchange, stating that the Exchange determined that we were not in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Exchange’s Company Guide due to our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The letter also stated that our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 was a material violation of our listing agreement with the Exchange and, therefore, pursuant to Section 1003(d) of the Company Guide, the Exchange was authorized to suspend and, unless prompt corrective action was taken, remove our securities from the Exchange. We were afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the Exchange and, on April 29, 2013, we presented our plan of compliance to the Exchange. On May 10, 2013, the Exchange notified us that it accepted our plan of compliance and granted us an extension until July 16, 2013, or the Plan Period, to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide. We will be subject to periodic review by the Exchange during the Plan Period. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan of compliance or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide by the end of the Plan Period could result in our common stock being delisted from the Exchange. We are working diligently to regain compliance with the Company Guide by July 16, 2013. On May 17, 2013, we received a letter from the Exchange, stating that the Exchange determined that we were not in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Company Guide due to our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The letter also stated that our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 was a material violation of our listing agreement with the Exchange and, therefore, pursuant to Section 1003(d) of the Company Guide, the Exchange was authorized to suspend and, unless prompt corrective action was taken, remove our securities from the Exchange. We were afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the Exchange and, on May 31, 2013, we presented our plan of compliance to the Exchange. We expect the Exchange will soon notify us about our plan of compliance. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan of compliance or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide by August 15, 2013 could result in our common stock being delisted from the Exchange. We are working diligently to regain compliance with the Company Guide by August 15, 2013. Pursuant to Section 1009(h) of the Company Guide, if we, within twelve (12) months of the end of the Plan Period (including any early termination of the Plan Period under the procedures set forth in Section 1009(g) of the Company Guide), are again determined to be below continued listing standards, then the Exchange staff will examine the relationship between the two incidents of falling below continued listing standards and re-evaluate our method of recovery from the first incident. In such an instance, the Exchange will then take appropriate action, which, depending upon the circumstances, may include truncating the procedures set forth in Section 1009 of the Company Guide or immediately initiating proceedings to delist our common stock from the NYSE MKT. Concerns regarding the Italian government fiscal and debt crises could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial portion of our accounts receivable are concentrated in Italy and may be affected by the recent fiscal and debt crises facing the Italian government. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, $4.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively, of our total net accounts receivable were due from customers of our Italian subsidiary, the majority of which are located in Italy. Of our total net accounts receivable, 27% at December 31, 2012 and 36% at December 31, 2011 were due from hospitals and laboratories controlled by 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS the Italian government. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, particularly in Italy where payment cycles are longer than in the United States, for potential credit losses based on the age of the accounts receivable and the results of our periodic credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition. Recently, the Italian government has been experiencing severe fiscal and debt crises and a recession, including its increasingly uncertain ability to service its sovereign debt obligations, caused in part by the declining global markets and economic conditions. Accordingly, we are subject to certain economic, business and, in particular, credit risk if our customers located in Italy which are hospitals or laboratories controlled by the Italian government do not pay amounts owed to us, extend payment cycles even further or ask us to accept a lower payment amount than is owed to us. Our current allowances for doubtful accounts may not be adequate and we may be required to make additional allowances, which would adversely affect, and could materially adversely affect, our operating results in the period in which the determination or allowance is or was made. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows in the near term. Additionally, we periodically receive payments based upon negotiated agreements with governmental regions in Italy, acting on behalf of hospitals located in the region, in satisfaction of previously outstanding accounts receivable balances. We may anticipate collection of these amounts through a payment as described above, and, therefore, not provide an allowance for doubtful accounts for these amounts. Additional payments by governmental regions in Italy are possible, and, as a result, we may consider the potential receipt of those payments in determining our allowance for doubtful accounts. If contemplated payments are not received, if existing agreements are not complied with or cancelled or if we require additional allowances, then our operating results could be materially adversely affected during the period in which the determination to increase the allowance for doubtful accounts is or was made. If we fail to collect our accounts receivable, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our accounts receivable were $7.2 million and $6.7 million, respectively, and our allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively. There is no assurance that we will collect our outstanding accounts receivable or that our allowance for doubtful accounts will be adequate. The failure to collect outstanding receivables, whether relating to Italy, the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. If the financial condition of our customers was to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, then we may be required to make additional allowances, which would adversely affect our operating results in the period in which the determination or allowance is or was made. The future success of our business depends on our development, manufacture and marketing of new products. Our future success is largely dependent upon our ability to develop, manufacture and market commercially successful new scientific instruments and assays. Delays in the development, manufacture or marketing of new products will impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Each of the steps in the development, manufacture and marketing of our products, as well as the process taken as a whole, involves significant periods of time and expense. There can be no assurance that: • any of our products presently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, will perform as expected, • we will obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner, if at all, or • we can successfully and profitably produce and market any of our products. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our strategic initiatives, including our automation strategy, our development and commercial release of the upgraded versions of our existing Mago® 4 and 4S instruments and the expansion of our menu of test kits, may not be successful. Our test kits are designed to be performed either manually or in an automated format. We also design and manufacture our laboratory instruments to perform tests in a fully-automated mode. In furtherance of our automation strategy, we have developed upgraded versions of our existing Mago® Plus instrument, which are named the Mago® 4 and the Mago® 4S. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we began commercial deliveries of the Mago® 4, which we marketed only outside of the United States. We have developed a variation of the Mago® Plus, named the Mago® 4S, which we began to market in the United States in 2011. We received clearance in the first quarter of 2011 from the FDA on the 510(k) premarket submission that we filed for the Mago® 4S. There can be no assurance that our financial condition, operating results or cash flows or the judgments and estimates we have made with respect to our inventory, property and equipment, equipment on lease, goodwill and product intangibles will not be impacted by the sales of existing products or development of new products. We expect that derivations of and upgrades to the Mago® will become our primary platforms for marketing our kits. However, the development and marketing of new or enhanced products, including, without limitation, the Mago® 4 and Mago® 4S, is a complex and uncertain process. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that: • the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S will perform as expected, • the derivations of or upgrades to the Mago® will become our primary platforms for marketing our kits, • the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S will enable us to expand the menu of test kits we offer, • the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S will be a source of revenue growth for us, • we will receive financial benefits or achieve improved operating results as a result of the commercial release of the Mago® 4 or the Mago® 4S, • we will be successful in the marketing of the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S, or • customers will integrate the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S into their operations as readily as expected. Additionally, in an effort to expand the menu of test kits we offer, in September 2004, we entered into a license agreement with an Italian diagnostics company that allows us access to its technology for manufacturing certain hepatitis products. We expect this agreement to enable us to become more competitive in markets outside of the United States by providing us with technology that, over time, would allow us to internally manufacture many of our own hepatitis products with the “CE Marking,” as well as internally manufacture our own raw materials for those hepatitis products. During October 2011, we obtained “CE Marking” for a number of hepatitis kits that we intend to manufacture and market beginning in 2013. However, there remains a risk that we will not be able to manufacture and market these products successfully or within the anticipated timeframe. While we believe that we will be able to bring these hepatitis kits to market, if the progress of our efforts to begin marketing these kits is further adversely impacted, then we may find it necessary to further delay the product launch of our hepatitis test kits. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our implementation of our strategy, which includes focusing on the development of the Mago® 4 and Mago® 4S as platforms for marketing our kits, could adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Since the fourth quarter of 2007, we have focused on the development of the Mago® 4 and Mago® 4S as a platform for marketing our kits. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $0.3 million of intangible assets relating to the hepatitis technology product license. Although we obtained “CE Marking” during October 2011 for a number of hepatitis kits that we intend to manufacture and market, the delays in obtaining “CE Marking”, in addition to negatively impacting our ability to timely introduce our new hepatitis test kits, may also negatively impact our ability to achieve our originally anticipated sales levels of these test kits. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS While we believe we will be able to bring hepatitis test kits to market beginning in 2013, if the progress of our efforts to begin marketing hepatitis test kits is further adversely impacted, then we could be required to record an additional impairment charge with respect to all or a portion of the remaining $0.3 million value of our product license of hepatitis technology and pay all or a portion of the accrued payables relating to the product license. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our future success depends on the development of new markets. Our success depends, in large part, on the introduction and acceptance by hospitals, clinics and laboratories of our new diagnostic products and our ability to broaden sales of our existing products to current and new customers. In order to penetrate the market more effectively, we will need to expand our sales and marketing activities by, among other things: • increasing our sales force, • expanding our promotional activities, • developing additional third party strategic distributorships, and • participating in trade shows. There is no assurance that these or other activities or programs will be successful. The failure of such activities or programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our own manufacture of scientific instruments, reagents and test kits may not provide us with anticipated cost savings or competitive advantages. We have sought to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our proprietary instrument systems. While some of our competitors offer proprietary instruments, other competitors use third parties to manufacture these instruments for them. We manufacture our Mago® 4 and Mago® 4S instruments at Delta, our wholly-owned subsidiary in Italy. Additionally, our wholly-owned subsidiary located in Springdale, Arkansas, ImmunoVision, produces certain autoimmune reagents and our wholly-owned subsidiary located in Miami, Florida, Diamedix, produces diagnostic test kits. There can be no assurance that we will realize cost savings or competitive advantages from our own production of scientific instruments, reagents or test kits. We may not be able to increase the volume of our reagent production to meet increased demand. Our “reagent rental” program in which customers make reagent kit purchase commitments with us that typically last for a period of three to five years and our sales of these reagent kits are principal sources of revenue for us. If the demand for reagent kits increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the volume of our reagent kit production in order to meet such demand. Any failure to meet the demand for reagent kits could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our research and development expenditures may not result in commercially successful products. We devote substantial resources to research and development to update and improve our existing products, as well as to develop new products and technologies. During 2012, we incurred approximately $1.1 million on our research and development efforts. We may in the future increase the amounts we spend on research and development depending upon, among other things: • the outcome of clinical testing of products under development, • delays or changes in government required testing or approval procedures, • technological and competitive developments, • strategic marketing decisions, and • liquidity. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS As a result, our research and development expenditures may adversely impact our earnings and cash flows in the short term. Additionally, there is no assurance that: • our research and development expenditures will result in the development of new products or product enhancements, • we will successfully complete products currently under development, • we will obtain regulatory approval for any such products, or • any approved product will be produced in commercial quantities, at reasonable costs, and be successfully marketed. The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted, and will likely continue to result, in substantial improvements in product function and performance. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry requirements and to respond to technological developments on a timely basis, either internally or through strategic alliances. Several companies have developed, or are developing, scientific instruments and assays that compete, or will compete, directly with products marketed by us. Many existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and technological resources, as well as established reputations for success in developing, manufacturing, selling and servicing products, than us. Competitors that are more vertically integrated than us may have more flexibility to compete effectively on price. We expect that existing and new competitors will continue to introduce products or services that are, directly or indirectly, competitive with those sold by us. Such competitors may succeed in developing products that are more functional or less costly than those sold by us and may be more successful in marketing such products. These and other changes and innovations in the rapidly changing medical technology market may negatively affect the sales of the products we market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or that technology developments by our competitors will not render our current or future products or technologies obsolete. If we fail to effectively compete or adapt to changing technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our success depends on key personnel, the loss of whom could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on the active participation of our principal executive officers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business and future prospects. In addition, our success is dependent on our ability to retain and attract additional qualified management, scientists, engineers, developers and regulatory and other personnel. Competition for such talent is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Our business is dependent on third party distributors. Although our direct sales force consummates the majority of our sales in the United States, we also engage third party distributors to sell our products. In Italy, our products are sold through Delta’s sales representatives and independent agents. Our international sales outside of Italy are through third party distributors. There is no assurance that third party distributors or independent sales personnel will achieve acceptable levels of sales or that, if any of our existing arrangements expire or terminate, we will be able to replace any distributors or sales personnel on terms advantageous to us, or at all. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to expand our distribution network by adding additional distributors or sales personnel. If third party distributors or independent sales personnel cease to promote our products, or if we are unable to make acceptable arrangements with distributors or sales personnel in other markets, our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our proprietary rights and cannot be certain of their confidentiality and protection. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. The technology associated with the design and manufacture of the Mago® 4 and Mago® 4S instruments is not protected by patent registrations or license restrictions. There 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS can be no assurance that our competitors will not gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary and confidential technologies or that they will not independently develop similar or competing trade secrets and technologies. If others develop competing instruments or other products, then this could erode our competitive advantage and materially harm our business. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation. We use confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants to protect our trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation. There can be no assurance that these parties will not breach their agreements with us. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become known or that our competitors will not independently develop similar or competing trade secrets and proprietary technology. We also cannot be sure, if we do not receive patents for products arising from research, that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to our products. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights, which may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products or result in claims for substantial damages. Technology-based companies are often very litigious and are often subject to unforeseen litigation. Therefore, although our business philosophy is to respect intellectual property rights, we face the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights belonging to others. These claims could result in costly litigation and could divert management’s and technical personnel’s attention from other matters. The outcome of any claim is difficult to predict because of the uncertainties inherent in litigation. In addition, regardless of the merits of any infringement claims, these claims could cause us to lose our right to develop our discoveries or commercialize our products in certain markets or could require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain these licenses on terms we believe to be acceptable. As a result, an adverse determination in a judicial, administrative or other similar proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those included as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets such as our hepatitis technology product license), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangible assets, pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges. Any resulting expense or impairment loss would be recorded as a charge against our earnings and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, among others, those relating to: • product returns, • allowances for doubtful accounts, • inventories and related reserves, • goodwill and other intangible assets, 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS • income and other tax accruals, • deferred tax asset valuation allowances, • discounts and allowances, • stock based compensation, • warranty obligations, and • contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our assumptions and estimates may, however, prove to have been incorrect and our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While we believe the assumptions and estimates we make are reasonable, any changes to our assumptions or estimates, or any actual results which differ from our assumptions or estimates, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Following the conclusion of an inspection conducted in 2009 by the applicable notifying body required to obtain “CE Marking” for our hepatitis test kits, and a related meeting with the applicable notifying body during which we were informed that our filing requires additional clinical data, we concluded that the product launch of our hepatitis test kits would be further delayed. Accordingly, we determined that the carrying amount of the hepatitis technology product license was in excess of its fair value and recorded a non-cash impairment charge to operations totaling $0.4 million, reducing the value of our hepatitis technology product license to $0.3 million as of December 31, 2009, from $0.7 million as of December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, we had approximately $0.3 million of intangible assets. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the balance of 100,000 Euro (equivalent to approximately $132,000) was offset against the accounts receivable owed to us from the Italian diagnostics company. While we obtained “CE Marking” during October 2011 for a number of hepatitis kits and we believe that we will be able to bring these hepatitis test kits to market in 2013, if the progress of our efforts to begin marketing these kits is further adversely impacted, then we may be required to record an additional impairment charge with respect to all or a portion of the remaining $0.3 million value of the hepatitis technology product license. During the third quarter of 2007, we determined there was sufficient indication to require us to assess, in accordance with applicable accounting guidance, whether any portion of our goodwill balance, which is recorded in both ImmunoVision and Delta, was impaired. Based primarily upon our estimate of forecasted discounted cash flows for each of these subsidiaries and our market capitalization, we determined that the carrying amount of the goodwill at each of Delta and ImmunoVision was in excess of its respective fair value. We concluded that all $4.7 million of the goodwill recorded at Delta and $1.2 million of the $2.1 million of goodwill recorded at ImmunoVision was impaired. As a result, we recorded a noncash goodwill impairment charge to operations totaling $5.9 million during the third quarter of 2007. No impairment charge was recorded for the goodwill at ImmunoVision for 2012 or 2011. However, a continued decline in our market capitalization or sales by ImmunoVision could require us to record additional impairment charges in future periods for the remaining goodwill at ImmunoVision, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. The trend towards consolidation in the diagnostics industry may adversely affect us. The diagnostics industry has experienced considerable consolidation through mergers and acquisitions in the past several years. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thereby intensifying competition in the industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidation of our customers or the formation of group purchasing organizations could result in increased pricing pressure that could adversely affect our operating results. The health care industry has undergone significant consolidation resulting in increased purchasing leverage for customers and consequently increased pricing pressures on our business. Additionally, some of our customers 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS have become affiliated with group purchasing organizations. Group purchasing organizations typically offer members price discounts on laboratory supplies and equipment if they purchase a bundled group of one supplier’s products, which results in a reduction in the number of manufacturers selected to supply products to the group purchasing organization and increases the group purchasing organization’s ability to influence its members’ buying decisions. Further consolidation among customers or their continued affiliation with group purchasing organizations may result in significant pricing pressures and correspondingly reduce the gross margins of our business or may cause our customers to reduce their purchases of our products, thereby adversely affecting our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, in Italy, and most other countries in Western Europe, our products are sold predominantly to public hospital laboratories, which are managed by government structures, either directly or indirectly. In most cases, our products are sold through a bid process known as tenders for multiple year periods. Due to the efforts exercised by many governments to contain healthcare costs, there has been a constant effort to consolidate laboratory units and, consequently, the bid process continues to become even more competitive. The containment of healthcare costs, consolidation of laboratory units or increase in the competitiveness of the bid process could adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Reimbursement policies of third parties could affect the pricing and demand for our products. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental and private third party payors. The products we market are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill third party payors such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for healthcare services provided to their patients. Governmental reimbursement policies are subject to rapid and significant changes in the United States, at both the federal and state levels, and in other countries. Private third party payors are increasingly negotiating the prices charged for medical products and services. There can be no assurance that healthcare providers will not respond to such pressures by substituting competitors’ products for our products. A third party payor may deny reimbursement if it determines that a device was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, was experimental or for other reasons. There can be no assurance that our products will qualify for reimbursement by governmental programs in accordance with guidelines established by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, by state government payors or by commercial insurance carriers, or that reimbursement will be available in other countries. We may face significant uncertainty due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess the healthcare system and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. During March 2010, Congress approved, and the President signed into law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which have made and are expected to continue to make significant changes to the healthcare industry. The uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of healthcare reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, including with respect to the recently approved federal legislation, may have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products. At this time, we cannot predict which, if any, additional healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they, or the recently approved federal legislation, may have on our business and operations, and any such impact may be adverse on our operating results and financial condition. Cost containment measures could affect our ability to sell our products. Various legislative proposals, including proposals relating to the cost containment of healthcare products and the reimbursement policies of governmental and private third party payors, could materially impact the pricing and sale of our products. Reimbursement policies may not include our products. Even if reimbursement policies of third parties grant reimbursement status for a product, we cannot be sure that these reimbursement policies will remain in effect. Limits on reimbursement could reduce the demand for our products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third party reimbursement for our products could reduce or possibly eliminate 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether governmental authorities will enact additional legislation or regulation which will affect third party coverage and reimbursement that reduces demand for our products. Compliance with governmental regulation is critical to our business. The products we sell are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental and regulatory authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and other countries. Such regulation includes the regulation of the approval, manufacturing and testing controls, labeling, marketing and sale of diagnostic devices. Failure to comply with these governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, interruptions of production and criminal prosecution. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is rigorous, time consuming and costly. There is no assurance that necessary approvals will be attained on a timely basis, if at all, or at the anticipated cost. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if unforeseen problems occur following initial marketing. In addition, as a general matter, foreign regulatory requirements for medical devices are becoming increasingly stringent. “CE Marking” must be obtained for all medical devices commercially distributed in the European Union, even though the medical devices may have already received FDA clearance. In order to be commercially distributed throughout the European Union, certain of our products must bear the “CE Marking.” All of the products that we currently sell throughout the European Union are in conformity with the applicable “CE” regulations under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive. However, if in the future we lose the authorization to use the “CE Marking,” we may not be able to sell our products in the European Union, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. Domestic and foreign regulations are subject to change, and extensive changes in regulation may increase our operating expenses. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of regulatory authorities and the extremely high level of regulatory oversight result in a continuing possibility that we may be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite our efforts to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements. Delays in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, necessary domestic or foreign regulatory approvals, failures to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or extensive changes in regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. We are subject to a number of regulatory and contractual restrictions with respect to our European subsidiary. Delta, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is located in Italy. Our employment relations in Italy are governed by numerous regulatory and contractual requirements, including, among other things, national collective labor agreements and individual employer labor agreements. These arrangements address a number of specific issues affecting our working conditions, including, without limitation, hiring, work time, wages and benefits and termination of employment. The cost of complying with these requirements is substantial and may materially adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, Delta must comply with minimum capital requirements established by Italian law. From time to time, we may utilize cash to assist Delta in maintaining its compliance with these capital requirements. There can be no assurance that Delta will be able to maintain its compliance with these capital requirements with or without our cash assistance. Under certain circumstances, during the time when Delta is utilizing cash assistance that we provide, the amount of such cash assistance may not be available for our use in other portions of our business. Furthermore, any cash assistance that we provide to Delta may not be repaid or distributed to us when expected, or at all. Any of these risks may adversely affect our liquidity or financial condition. Our products could fail to perform according to specification or prove to be unreliable, which could damage our customer relationships and industry reputation and result in lawsuits and loss of sales. Our customers require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because the products we market are complex and often use state-of-the-art components, processes and techniques, undetected errors and design flaws may occur. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty and replacement costs 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS and may cause serious damage to our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may negatively impact our sales and business. We may be subject to lawsuits if any of the products we market fails to operate properly or causes any ailment to be undiagnosed or misdiagnosed. We may be exposed to product liability claims, and there can be no assurance of adequate insurance. Like all diagnostics companies, the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products may expose us to product liability and other claims resulting from their use. If any such claims against us are successful, we may be required to make significant compensation payments and suffer the associated adverse publicity. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation and the diversion of management time and resources. We believe that we maintain an adequate amount of product liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover all existing and future claims or that we will be able to maintain existing coverage or obtain additional coverage at reasonable rates. If a claim is not covered or if our coverage is insufficient, we may incur significant liability payments that would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Damages to or disruptions at our facilities could adversely impact our ability to effectively operate our business. A portion of our facilities, as well as our corporate headquarters and other critical business functions, are located in Miami, Florida — an area subject to hurricane casualty risk. Although we have certain limited protection afforded by insurance, our business and earnings could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major windstorm. Political and economic instability and foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect the revenues generated by our foreign operations. We have a significant wholly-owned subsidiary, Delta, located in Italy. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Delta represented 26% and 31%, respectively, of our net revenues. In addition, our current business plan includes a goal of expanding our product reach on a global basis and specifically in key regions in Europe, South America and Asia. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties, risks and uncertainties, such as: • export and trade restrictions, • inconsistent and changing regulatory requirements, • tariffs and other trade barriers, • cultural issues, • longer payment cycles, • problems in collecting accounts receivable, • political instability, • local economic downturns, • seasonal reductions in business activity in Europe during the traditional summer vacation months, and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, 26% and 31%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and we anticipate that this percentage may increase in future periods as a result of our efforts to expand our product reach internationally. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar affect our operating results. For instance, if the United States dollar strengthens relative to foreign currency, then our earnings generated in foreign currency 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS will, in effect, decrease when converted into United States dollars, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. We do not use financial derivatives to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. Our indebtedness may impact our financial condition and results of operations and the terms of our indebtedness may limit our activities. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $823,000 of indebtedness outstanding under the previously existing line of credit pursuant to the loan agreement into which Diamedix has entered with City National Bank of Florida. On March 1, 2013, we closed down the previously existing line of credit and we entered into a new loan agreement with Citibank, N.A., which provides for a secured, revolving credit facility of up to $2,000,000. Subject to applicable restrictions in the loan agreement, we may incur indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation, that we may be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest due on our outstanding indebtedness, that our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures, and that our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes may be impacted. Our indebtedness outstanding under the line of credit bears interest at a floating rate tied to LIBOR. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, whether generally or as the result of our lender’s requirement, then the amount of the interest payments on our floating rate indebtedness will also increase. General economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Amounts outstanding under the new line of credit with Citibank, N.A. are collateralized by all of our assets and all of the assets of our wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the United States — Diamedix, ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific. In addition, each of Diamedix, ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific has guaranteed the repayment of amounts outstanding under the new line of credit. Further, Transasia, our indirect parent company, has also guaranteed the repayment of amounts outstanding under the new line of credit. The loan agreement, pursuant to which the new line of credit with Citibank, N.A. has been made available to us, contains certain positive and negative restrictive covenants which will affect, and in certain respects will limit or prohibit, our ability to, among other things, create or permit any liens on our assets, engage in business activities substantially different than those in which we are currently engaged, enter into certain transactions in which we are not the surviving entity, transfer or sell our assets other than in the ordinary course of business, enter into certain obligations as surety or guarantor, or permit a change of control. In addition, the new loan agreement requires us to maintain an enumerated level of a capital base and to maintain an enumerated leverage ratio. Our potential acquisitions may reduce our earnings, be difficult for us to combine into our operations or require us to obtain additional financing. In the ordinary course of our business, we evaluate potential business acquisition opportunities that we anticipate will provide new product and market opportunities, benefit from and maximize our existing assets and add critical mass. We often incur significant expenses in connection with our evaluation of potential business acquisition opportunities. However, we may not be successful in finding or consummating any acquisitions, and any acquisitions we make may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The evaluation of acquisition opportunities may divert management’s attention from our operations, and any acquisitions we make may fail to accomplish our strategic objectives, may not be successfully combined with our operations or may not perform as expected. In addition, although we generally seek acquisitions that we believe will be accretive to our per share earnings, based on current acquisition prices in the industry, our acquisitions could initially reduce our earnings and add significant intangible assets and related amortization charges. Our acquisition strategy may require us to obtain debt or equity financing, resulting in increased leverage or increased debt obligations, as compared to equity, and the dilution of our stockholders’ ownership of us. We may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held at a single brokerage firm. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are presently held at one international securities brokerage firm. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk if this brokerage firm is unable to repay the balance in the account or deliver our securities or if the brokerage firm should become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. Any of the above events could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. ERBA Mannheim may be deemed to control our company. ERBA Mannheim beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Further, assuming the full consummation of the investment under the stock purchase agreement, as amended, including the full exercise of the warrant, ERBA Mannheim would currently beneficially own, directly or indirectly, approximately 88.7% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, on issues for which our stockholders are eligible to vote, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at a meeting, in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote is required to approve an action. Consequently, ERBA Mannheim, without the consent of any of our other stockholders, can approve actions that require stockholder approval and elect directors acceptable to them based on their share ownership. Suresh Vazirani, the Chief Executive Officer of ERBA Mannheim, currently serves as executive Chairman of our board of directors, and Sanjiv Suri, the President International Business of ERBA Mannheim, and Kishore “Kris” Dudani, the Marketing and Business Development Representative — South, Central and Latin America of ERBA Mannheim, currently serve as members of our board of directors. Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd. is the parent company of ERBA Mannheim. At our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, the requisite super-majority of our minority stockholders approved a proposal pursuant to which “business combinations” with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates have been approved under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. At our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, the requisite super-majority of our minority stockholders approved a proposal pursuant to which “business combinations” with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates have been approved under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. As a result of such approval, there is not a time limit for any “business combinations” with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates or a maximum number, or dollar value, of shares of our common stock, warrants and other convertible securities, debentures and any other securities that could be sold to ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates, and such approval included, among other transactions and opportunities, short-form mergers under Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. However, such stockholder approval did not eliminate the need for approval by our board of directors of financing transactions or other strategic opportunities between us and ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates. Accordingly, any financing transaction or other strategic opportunity with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates would require the approval of the majority of the non-interested members of our board of directors, who, consistent with their fiduciary duties as members of the board of directors, would evaluate all transactions with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates and associates to ensure that such transactions are on market terms and in the best interests of us and all of our stockholders. In addition, such stockholder approval constitutes approval of any applicable transaction or opportunity solely for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Accordingly, notwithstanding such stockholder approval, any transaction or opportunity which we may explore in the future with ERBA Mannheim or its affiliates or associates that requires stockholder approval under any other law, rule or regulation would continue to be subject to stockholder approval, which approval may be obtained by means of a vote of our stockholders at an annual or special meeting of stockholders or, if permitted and deemed advisable by our board of directors, by written consent of holders of shares representing at least the minimum number of votes which would be required for the transaction or opportunity to be approved if it was considered and voted upon at any such meeting. We have limited rights to the “ERBA” name and may be required to change our name in the future. As approved by our stockholders at our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders held in June 2012, and as previously approved by our board of directors, we changed the name of our company from “IVAX Diagnostics, Inc.” to “ERBA Diagnostics, Inc.” In connection with our name change, on June 15, 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2012, we entered into a use of name license agreement with ERBA Mannheim granting us a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the name “ERBA” for an annual fee of one dollar. The license agreement will be terminated upon the earlier of the transfer by ERBA Mannheim to us of all of ERBA Mannheim’s rights, title and interest in and to the use of the name and any stylized logos or marks associated with the name, or otherwise known as the transfer date, and such time, if any, as ERBA Mannheim no longer owns, directly or indirectly, shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, or otherwise known as the share threshold date. Furthermore, ERBA Mannheim may terminate the license agreement at any time after June 15, 2013 and prior to the earlier of the transfer date and the share threshold date, upon providing us with 180 days prior written notice of its intent to terminate and the date upon which the license agreement shall terminate or upon providing us with 30 days prior written notice of any breach of the license agreement by us, which breach remains uncured at the end of such 30 day period. There can be no assurance that ERBA Mannheim will not terminate this license agreement. Upon termination of the license agreement, we would be required to take all steps reasonably necessary to change our name as soon as practicable. The termination of this license agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our common stock has a limited trading volume, and a number of internal and external factors have caused, and may continue to cause, the market price of our common stock to be volatile. Our common stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE MKT (formerly known as the NYSE Amex, and prior to that the American Stock Exchange) since March 15, 2001. Because ERBA Mannheim beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, we have a limited non-affiliate market capitalization. As a result, our common stock has a limited trading volume, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares, and which may make the trading price of our common stock subject to price volatility. Additionally, the market prices for securities of companies engaged in the healthcare field, including us, have been volatile. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock, including, without limitation: • announcements by us and our competitors of technological innovations, new commercial products or significant contracts or business acquisitions, • period-to-period changes in our financial results, • market acceptance of existing or new products, • healthcare regulatory reform, and • changes in general conditions in the economy, financial markets or healthcare industry. The issuance of preferred stock or additional shares of common stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our stockholders. Currently, we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the rights of holders of shares of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and may prevent a transaction that is favorable to our stockholders. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or otherwise include the words “may,” “will,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “projects,” “could,” “would,” “should,” or similar expressions or statements that certain events or conditions may occur. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on the information currently available to it and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties associated with: • our ability to continue as a going concern; • our ability to generate positive cash flow or otherwise improve our liquidity, whether from existing operations, strategic initiatives or possible future sources of liquidity, including, without limitation, from the line of credit or the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement, issuing debt or equity securities, incurring indebtedness or curtailing or reducing our operations; • the remaining transactions contemplated by the investment under the stock purchase agreement may not be consummated on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all; • the net proceeds of the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement may not provide adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future; • our ability to achieve or sustain profitability from our operations or otherwise secure funds to provide the basis for our long-term liquidity; • our broad discretion in our use of the net proceeds from the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement; • the warrants may not be exercised, in whole or in part; • the decision to exercise the warrants will be made by ERBA Mannheim based upon considerations it deems appropriate, which may include, among other things, the future market price of our common stock, which is subject to volatility and a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and, when making any such decision to exercise the warrants, ERBA Mannheim’s interests may conflict with our interests; • our ability to pay when due the principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness under the line of credit; • our ability to operate our business under the restrictions imposed by the positive and negative covenants to which we are subject under the loan agreement in connection with the line of credit; • our ability to remediate our material weakness relating to our internal controls over financial reporting; • our ability to timely cure our non-compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT within the anticipated timeframe or at all, which, if not timely cured, could result in our common stock being delisted from the NYSE MKT; • if we timely cure our non-compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT, our ability to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT, the failure of which could result in our common stock being delisted from the NYSE MKT; • economic, competitive, political, governmental and other factors affecting us and our operations, markets and products; • the success of technological, strategic and business initiatives, including our automation strategy; • the ability of the Mago® 4S to perform as expected; 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the impact of the commercial release of the Mago® 4S on the judgments and estimates we have made with respect to our financial condition, operating results and cash flows; • the impact on our financial condition and operating results of making or changing judgments and estimates as a result of future design changes to, or the development of improved instrument versions of, the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S or as a result of future demand for the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S; • the ability of the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S to be a source of revenue growth for us; • our ability to receive financial benefits or achieve improved operating results as a result of the commercial release of the Mago® 4 or the Mago® 4S; • the ability of the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S to be a factor in our growth; • the ability of the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S to expand the menu of test kits we offer; • making derivations of and upgrades to the Mago® our primary platforms for marketing our kits; • our ability to successfully market the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S; • our customers’ integration of the Mago® 4 or Mago® 4S into their operations; • our ability to successfully market the DSXTM and DS2TM instrument systems from Dynex Technologies in conjunction with our test kits on a worldwide basis; • the success of our comprehensive review of our business plans and operations and the initiatives that we have implemented or may implement based on the results of such review; • our ability to successfully market the Ds5 instrument system for diabetes testing; • our ability to successfully market the Ds360 instrument system for diabetes testing; • our ability to successfully market the D3 instrument system for hematology testing; • our ability to successfully market the 2280 instrument system for hematology testing; • our ability to successfully market generic clinical chemistry reagents; • our ability to improve our competitive position to the extent anticipated, or at all, as a result of our comprehensive review of our business plans and operations and the initiatives that we have implemented or may implement based on the results of such review; • our ability to expand the menu of test kits that we offer to include other complementary infectious disease or autoimmune testing sectors or otherwise; • the response of our current customer base to an expansion of our menu of test kits; • our ability to achieve organic growth; • our ability to identify or consummate acquisitions of businesses or products; • our ability to integrate acquired businesses or products, including, without limitation, our ability to integrate the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics; • acquisitions of business and products, and the integration of acquired businesses and products, may disrupt our business, distract our management and may not proceed as planned, including, without limitation, our acquisition of and our ability to integrate the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics; • our ability to achieve economies of scale or to maximize the utilization of our assets and facilities, after any integration of the businesses commonly known as Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics into our legacy operations; • our ability to enter into and exploit the diabetes market; 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our ability to leverage the marketing and distribution infrastructure that ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates have established around the world; • the timing of the closing of our Drew Scientific facility in Dallas, Texas; • our ability to enhance our position in laboratory automation; • our ability to expand our product offerings and/or market reach, including, without limitation, our ability to increase our presence in key countries in Europe, South America, Asia as well as other international markets, or become a leader in the diagnostics industry; • the impact the existing global economic conditions may have on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows; • the impact of healthcare regulatory reform; • constantly changing, and our compliance with, governmental regulation; • the impact of our adoption or implementation of new accounting statements and pronouncements on our financial condition and operating results; • our limited operating revenues and history of primarily operational losses; • our ability to collect our accounts receivable, particularly in Italy, and the impact of making or changing judgments and estimates regarding our allowances for doubtful accounts on our financial condition and operating results; • our ability to utilize our net operating losses, whether subject to limitations or not, and its impact on our financial condition and operating results; • the impact of any future limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating losses in the event of any future change in control or similar transaction; • the impact of making or changing judgments and estimates regarding our deferred tax liabilities and our valuation allowances and reserves against our deferred tax assets on our financial condition and operating results; • the impact of making or changing judgments and estimates regarding our goodwill, including the remaining goodwill recorded at ImmunoVision, and other intangible assets, such as our hepatitis technology product license, on our financial condition and operating results; • our ability to achieve cost advantages from our own manufacture of instrument systems, reagents and test kits; • our ability to grow beyond the autoimmune and infectious disease markets and to expand into additional diagnostic test sectors; • our ability to obtain product technology from the Italian diagnostics company that would enable us to manufacture our own hepatitis products; • our ability to introduce and market our own hepatitis products in the European Union when expected, or at all, including the potential that any further delays may require us to record an additional impairment charge with respect to the value of our hepatitis technology product license or pay all or a portion of our accrued payables relating to the product license; • our ability to internally manufacture our own hepatitis products and raw materials for these products and to become competitive in markets outside of the United States; • our ability to derive revenue from our manufacture and sale of our own hepatitis products; • the impact of the anticipated timing of the commercial launch of our own hepatitis products on the judgments and estimates we have made with respect to our financial condition, operating results and cash flows; 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our production capacity at our facility in Miami, Florida; • the success of the move of our headquarters from our Miami, Florida facility to our Miami Lakes, Florida facility; • our ability to successfully improve our facilities and upgrade or replace our equipment and information systems in the timeframe and utilizing the amount of funds anticipated or at all; • our dependence on agreements with ERBA Mannheim, third party distributors and key personnel; • consolidation of our customers affecting our operations, markets and products; • reimbursement policies of governmental and private third parties affecting our operations, markets and products; • price constraints imposed by our customers and governmental and private third parties; • our ability to increase the volume of our reagent production to meet increased demand; • protecting our intellectual property; • political and economic instability and foreign currency fluctuation affecting our foreign operations; • the effects of utilizing cash to assist Delta in maintaining its compliance with capital requirements established by Italian law; • the holding of a significant portion our cash and cash equivalents at a single brokerage firm, including risks relating to the bankruptcy or insolvency of such brokerage firm; • litigation regarding products, distribution rights, intellectual property rights, product liability and labor and employment matters; • voting control of our common stock by ERBA Mannheim; • conflicts of interest with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates, including Suresh Vazirani, Sanjiv Suri and/or Kishore “Kris” Dudani, and with our officers, employees and other directors; and • other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many of these factors are beyond our control. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 