D. RISK FACTORS We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below. Although we have established the Enterprise Risk Management system to identify, evaluate and manage risks, our business activities are subject to the following risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our business, revenues and profits fluctuate with changes in oil and gas prices Prices for crude oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, market uncertainty and various other factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to overall economic conditions, consumer demand for oil, political developments, the ability of petroleum producing nations to set and maintain production levels and prices, the price and availability of other energy sources, domestic and foreign government regulations, and weather conditions. In addition, our typical contracts with gas buyers include provisions for periodic resets and adjustment formulas that depend on a basket of crude oil prices and inflation as well as various other factors. These resets and adjustment formulas can result in natural gas price fluctuations. Even relatively modest declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, revenues and profits. Lower oil and gas prices may result in the write-off of higher cost reserves and other assets and may lower our earnings or cause losses. Lower oil and gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically and render existing contracts that we have entered into uneconomical. The oil and gas reserve estimates in this annual report may require substantial revision as a result of future drilling, testing, production and oil and gas price changes The reliability of reserve estimates depends on a number of factors, including the quality and quantity of technical and economic data, the prevailing oil and gas prices for our production, the production performance of reservoirs, extensive engineering judgments, and the fiscal regime in the PRC and overseas where we have operations or assets. Many of the factors, assumptions and variables involved in estimating reserves are beyond our control and may prove to be incorrect over time. In addition, many of the factors involved in estimating reserves over which we do have control, such as the recovery factor estimates and the projected production decline rates, may also prove to be incorrect over time. Consequently, the results of drilling, testing and production and oil and gas price changes may require substantial upward or downward revisions in our initial reserve data. Any failure to replace reserves and develop our proved undeveloped reserves could adversely affect our business and our financial position Exploring for, developing and acquiring reserves is highly risky and capital intensive. Our exploration and development activities involve inherent risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. In addition, approximately 58.5% of our proved reserves were undeveloped as of December 31, 2012. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop these reserves in a timely and cost-effective manner. There are various risks in developing reserves, including construction, operational, geophysical, geological and regulatory risks. Our future prospects largely depend on our capital expenditures, which are subject to various risks Our ability to maintain and increase our revenues, profit and cash flows depends upon continuous capital spending, which is subject to a number of contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These variables include: cash flows from operations, the availability and terms of external financing, our 14 Table of Contents ability to execute our project plans and commence production on time, weather conditions, the availability of services and facilities, approvals required from the PRC and foreign governments for certain capital expenditures and investments, and economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and overseas where we have operations or assets. Therefore, our actual capital expenditures and investments in the future may differ significantly from our current planned amounts. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding for our operations or development plans, our business, revenues, profit and cash flows could be adversely affected. Any failure to implement our natural gas business strategy may adversely affect our business and financial position As part of our business strategy and to meet increasing market demand in China, we continue to expand our natural gas business. In addition to the risks that affect our business generally, this strategy involves certain risks and uncertainties, including our limited market share compared to PetroChina Company Limited, or PetroChina, and China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, or Sinopec, and the underdeveloped natural gas transportation and supply infrastructure and market in China. We are evaluating the options to invest in CNOOC’s LNG projects in China. However, we have not decided whether to exercise these options. The options are subject to various conditions including certain governmental approvals, the prospects of such projects and, if applicable, independent shareholders’ approval. Mergers and acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and uncertainties In the past few years, we expanded our operations into Argentina, the U.S., Canada, Uganda, United Kingdom and certain other countries through mergers and acquisitions. For example, we completed our acquisition of Nexen Inc. (“Nexen”), a Canada-based energy company then-listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange, in February 2013. We may continue to pursue opportunities for mergers and acquisitions to expand our business in the future. In light of political instability, unexpected changes to fiscal regime and various other factors, there may be uncertainties with respect to the operations of those merged and acquired overseas assets. In particular, we may face increasing exploration and environmental risks arising from Nexen’s unconventional resources development, including oil sands operations. The relatively high production cost of Nexen’s oil sands and deep water operations may negatively affect our overall profitability. Further, we may face other risks and uncertainties as we become subject to additional regulatory requirements as a result of the acquisition of Nexen. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated economic return. Also, the increase in the scale of our operations may increase our operational risks. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from the Nexen acquisition Achieving the advantages of the Nexen acquisition will depend partly on the efficient combination of the activities of the Company and Nexen, two companies that functioned independently and were incorporated in different countries, with geographically dispersed operations and with different business cultures. The integration process involves inherent costs and uncertainties. Our purchase price paid for the Nexen acquisition represents a premium of 61% to the closing price of Nexen’s common shares on the NYSE on July 20, 2012, and a premium of 66% to Nexen’s 20 trading-day volume-weighted average share price. We expect the acquisition of Nexen will expand our existing business and assets and create sustainable growth opportunities, synergies and other benefits. However, our anticipated benefits may not develop. In addition, implementation of the acquisition and the successful integration of Nexen will also require management time and attention, as well as those employees with the appropriate skill sets for the tasks associated with such integration. Any failures, material delays or unexpected costs of the integration process could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. CNOOC largely controls us and we regularly enter into related party transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates CNOOC indirectly owned or controlled 64.45% of our shares as of March 28, 2013. As a result, CNOOC is able to control the composition of the board of directors of our company, or our Board, determine the timing and amount of our dividend payments and otherwise control us. If CNOOC takes actions that favor its interests over ours, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. In addition, we regularly enter into transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates, such as China Oilfield Services Limited, or COSL, Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd., or COOEC, and China BlueChemical Ltd. Some of our transactions with CNOOC and its affiliates constitute connected transactions under The Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, or the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules. Furthermore, these connected transactions are subject to review by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and may also be subject to the prior approval of our independent shareholders. For example, we have obtained the independent shareholders’ approval in respect of certain continuing connected transactions under a comprehensive framework agreement with 15 Table of Contents CNOOC and its affiliates on November 24, 2010. If we do not obtain these approvals, we will not be allowed to effect these transactions and our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Under current PRC law, CNOOC has the exclusive right to enter into PSCs with foreign oil and gas companies for the petroleum resources exploitation in offshore China. Although CNOOC has undertaken to us that it will transfer all of its rights and obligations under any new PSCs to us, except those relating to its administrative functions, the interests of CNOOC in entering into PSCs with international oil and gas companies may differ from our interests, especially with respect to the criteria for determining whether, and on what terms, to enter into PSCs. Our future business development may be adversely affected if CNOOC does not enter into new PSCs on terms that are acceptable to us. Our business performance relies heavily on our sales to large domestic customers and a substantial drop in such sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations We sell a significant proportion of our production to Sinopec, PetroChina and CNOOC-affiliated companies. However, we currently do not have long-term crude oil sales contracts with these customers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if any of them significantly reduced their crude oil purchases from us. We may have limited control over our investments in joint ventures and our operations with partners Quite a few of our operations are conducted with partners or in joint ventures in which we may have limited ability to influence or control their operation or future development. Our limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such joint ventures could materially and adversely affect the realization of our target returns on capital and lead to unexpected future costs. Blowout or other incidents may result in platform explosions, fire accidents and oil spills Our operations are mainly conducted in challenging or environmentally sensitive locations, in which the consequences of a blowout, spill, explosion, fire or other incidents could be more severe than in other locations. Although we have adopted standard workflow procedures and various measures to control the risks of blowout or other incidents, we cannot assure you that we could avoid the potential losses caused by blowout or other incidents. If one or more blowout or other incidents occur, platform explosions and fire accidents caused by such incidents may result in casualties, property losses and environmental damages, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We maintain various insurance coverage for our operations against certain types of potential losses. For detailed information on our insurance coverage, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Operating Hazards and Uninsured Risks.” However, our ability to insure against our risks is limited by the availability of relevant insurance products in the market. In addition, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover any losses that we may incur, or that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our existing insurance policies timely or at all. If any of our losses is not covered by our insurance policies, or if the insurance compensation is less than our losses or not paid timely, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We conduct exploration and development in deepwater areas in both offshore China and overseas by cooperating with our partners and by ourselves. Operations in deepwater are more difficult, risky and costly than those in shallower water. Operations in deepwater may require a significant amount of time between the discovery and the initial production, thus increasing the risks involved in these operations. Extreme weather conditions may have a material adverse impact on us and could result in losses that are not covered by insurance 16 Table of Contents Our exploration, development and production activities can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, which could result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, damage to our properties, cessation of activities, delay of project plans, shareholders lawsuits, government penalty, and increases in costs of drilling, completing and operating wells. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not maintain business interruption insurance for all of our oil and gas fields. We may suffer material losses resulting from uninsurable or uninsured risks or insufficient insurance coverage. The current or future activities of our controlling shareholder, CNOOC, or its affiliates in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions could result in negative media and investor attention to us and possible imposition of sanctions on CNOOC, which could materially and adversely affect our shareholders We cannot predict the interpretation or implementation of government policy at the U.S. federal, state or local levels with respect to any current or future activities by CNOOC or its affiliates in countries or with individuals or entities that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. Similarly, we cannot predict whether U.S. sanctions will be further tightened, or the impact that such actions may have on CNOOC. It is possible that the United States could subject CNOOC to sanctions due to these activities. Certain U.S. state and local governments and colleges have restrictions on the investment of public funds or endowment funds, respectively, in companies that are members of corporate groups with activities in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, such as Iran and Sudan. It is possible that the activities of CNOOC or its affiliates may affect the investment in our shares by such U.S. state and local governments and colleges. It is possible that, as a result of activities by CNOOC or its affiliates in countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, we may be subject to negative media or investor attention, which may distract management, consume internal resources and affect investors’ perception of our company. The Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, or ISA, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010, or CISADA, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, or NDAA, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or TRA, and the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, or IFCA, authorize the imposition of sanctions on companies that engage in, among other things, certain activities related to Iran’s energy, petrochemical, shipping or shipbuilding sectors, and in certain instances, on their parent companies. It is possible that the U.S. Government could determine that CNOOC or its affiliates engage in activities targeted by U.S. sanctions. If the U.S. President determined that CNOOC or one of its affiliates engaged in targeted activities, CNOOC and/or its affiliate could be subject to U.S. sanctions, which range from restrictions on U.S. exports or bank financing to outright blocking of CNOOC or its affiliate’s property within U.S. jurisdiction. If the most extreme sanction, blocking, were applied to CNOOC’s property, including controlled subsidiaries, CNOOC Limited could be prohibited from engaging in business activities in the United States or with U.S. individuals or entities, and U.S. transactions in our securities and distributions to U.S. individuals and entities with respect to our securities could also be prohibited. As required by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added a disclosure requirement to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are providing certain information regarding our non-controlled affiliates’ activities. In 2012, to our knowledge, one of our non-controlled affiliates, COSL, was engaged in certain drilling and other related services in Iran in relation to subcontracting agreements entered into in 2009 and another non-controlled affiliate of ours was engaged in installation services in Iran. We cannot predict at this time whether U.S. sanctions will be imposed on any of our affiliates. Our business and financial condition may be adversely affected by a severe and prolonged global economic downturn and deteriorating economic conditions Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented with recession in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of a potentially long-term and 17 Table of Contents widespread recession and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, energy costs, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to unprecedented volatility levels. We cannot predict the short- and long-term impacts of these events on our business and financial condition, which could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Petroleum Industry The oil and natural gas industries are very competitive We compete in the PRC and international markets with integrated and independent oil and gas companies for oil and gas properties or leases, customers, capital financing and business opportunities, including desirable oil and gas prospects. We also compete for the equipment and personnel required to explore, develop and operate oil and gas properties. Changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operation in overseas We currently have operations and assets in various foreign countries and regions, including Indonesia, Myanmar, Iraq, Australia, Nigeria, Uganda, Argentina, the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and certain other countries, and may expand our operations into other countries to further enhance our reserve base and diversify our geographic risk profile. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in governmental policies or social instability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting these foreign nations which are not within our control, including, among other things, a change in crude oil or natural gas pricing policy, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions and contracts, taxation policies, foreign exchange and repatriation restrictions, changing political conditions and currency controls. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations in countries in which we operate. Changes in such laws and regulations could change environmental protection requirements and increase taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies. Such changes may increase our cost of compliance or tax burden, which could materially and adversely affect our net income and result of operations. In addition, the operations and assets that we currently have or in the future may have in foreign countries and regions may be materially and adversely affected by trade or economic sanctions that may be imposed by other countries due to their deteriorated relations with each other. War and acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect us We have operations and assets in various countries and regions, including Indonesia, Myanmar, Iraq, Australia, Nigeria, Uganda, Argentina, the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and certain other countries, some of which are deemed to be with a high degree of political risk. We face the risks of kidnapping, damage to property and business interruption caused by terrorism activities and strikes. Acts of terrorism and strikes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be penalized if we fail to comply with existing or future environmental laws and regulations Our business is subject to environmental protection laws and regulations in the PRC, as well as other jurisdictions where we operate. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may become increasingly strict and have an increasing impact on our operations. Our compliance with such laws or regulations may require us to incur significant capital expenditures or other obligations or liabilities, which could create a substantial financial burden on us. Furthermore, these jurisdictions may impose fees and fines for the discharge of waste substances or serious environmental pollution, and 18 Table of Contents authorize a government, at its discretion, to close or suspend any facility which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure operations causing environmental damage. We have established an enterprise risk management system to identify, evaluate and manage the risks that we face. In addition, to help address various health, safety, security, environmental and operational risks, we have established a comprehensive management system to improve our employees’ awareness of our health, safety and environmental policies in our business operations and strengthen their skills of risk identification and risk management. We also continuously focus on workplace safety and prevention of oil spills or other adverse environmental events. However, there can be no assurance that our management systems and controls will function as intended at all times. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our management systems and controls cannot adequately identify all process safety, personal safety and environmental risks or provide effective mitigations, or that our operations will be able to conform with our management systems and controls at all times. Risks Relating to the PRC Changes in PRC laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operation Our operations are mainly in the People’s Republic of China. The PRC government exercises control over the PRC petroleum industry, including licensing, exploring, producing, distributing, pricing, taxing, importing, exporting and allocating of various resources. We have benefited from various favorable PRC government policies, laws and regulations that have been enacted to encourage the development of the offshore petroleum industry. We cannot guarantee that the legal and fiscal regimes affecting our businesses will remain substantially unchanged or that we will continue to benefit from favorable PRC government policies. For instance, in 2011, the State Council of the PRC amended the Provisional Regulation of PRC Resource Tax and as a result, since November 1, 2011, the royalties payable to the PRC government have been replaced by resource tax, currently at 5% of the sales revenues from crude oil and natural gas. For detailed information on the resource tax, see “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory Framework in the PRC.” In 2011 and 2012, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation of the PRC promulgated the Circular on Printing and Issuing the Pilot Proposals for the Conversion from Business Tax to Value-Added Tax (Cai Shui [2011] No.110) and various supporting Circulars (including Cai Shui [2011] No.111, Cai Shui [2012] No.71) . As a result, since January 1, 2012, the business tax in certain industries and regions have been replaced by value-added tax. This tax reform is very complex and may have some financial impact on the Company. In addition, existing PRC regulations require us to obtain various PRC government licenses and other approvals, including in some cases approvals for amendments and extensions of existing licenses and approvals to conduct exploration and development activities off the shores of China. If we are unable to obtain any necessary approvals, our reserves and production would be adversely affected. Government control of currency conversion and future movements in exchange rates may adversely affect our operations and financial condition A portion of our Renminbi revenue may need to be converted into other currencies by our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC, CNOOC China Limited, to meet our substantial requirements for foreign currencies, including: debt service on foreign currency denominated debt, overseas acquisitions of oil and gas properties, purchases of imported equipment, and payment of dividends declared in respect of shares held by international investors. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments with respect to foreign currency denominated obligations, are subject to the approval requirements of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. 19 Table of Contents The value of Renminbi against U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollar may cause a decrease in our oil sales, since the benchmark oil prices are usually in U.S. dollars. Certain legal restrictions on dividend distribution may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows We are a holding company. Our businesses are owned and conducted through various wholly owned subsidiaries, including CNOOC China Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC. Accordingly, our future cash flows will consist principally of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Our PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us is subject to PRC laws and regulations. For example, legal restrictions in the PRC permit payment of dividends only out of profits determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Substantially all our dividend payments result from dividends paid to us as a holding company by CNOOC China Limited. CNOOC China Limited must follow the laws and regulations of the PRC and its articles of association in determining its dividends. As a wholly foreign owned enterprise in China, CNOOC China Limited has to provide for a reserve fund and staff and workers’ bonus and welfare fund, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distributions according to the prevailing accounting rules and regulations in the PRC. Therefore, there is a risk that we may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flows due to these restrictions on dividend distribution. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China may prevent PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and quality control procedures. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Recent action being taken by the SEC against the PRC affiliates of the Big Four accounting firms, including our auditor, could create additional uncertainty about the status of audits of U.S.-listed PRC-based companies and may materially and adversely affect the liquidity and value of our ADSs. On December 3, 2012, the SEC announced that it had begun administrative proceedings against the PRC affiliates of each of the Big Four accounting firms (namely Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers), including our auditor, and another large U.S. accounting firm for refusing to produce audit work papers and other documents related to China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud against U.S. investors. The SEC charged the firms with violating the Securities Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires foreign public accounting firms to provide the SEC upon request with audit work papers involving any company trading on the U.S. markets. If this proceeding by the SEC ultimately results in actions or sanctions that affect the ability or right of these accounting firms, including the PRC affiliate of our auditor, to engage in audits of U.S.-listed PRC-based companies, it may make it difficult or 20 Table of Contents impossible for us to engage an auditor qualified to audit accounts for U.S.-listed PRC-based companies and make us unable to comply with SEC rules and regulations and the listing standards of securities exchanges in the United States, which would materially and adversely affect the liquidity and value of our ADSs and force us to de-list our ADSs from the NYSE. As the administrative proceedings being taken against these accounting firms is in a preliminary stage, we cannot predict the eventual possible impact on our company. 