RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by any of the following factors, in which event the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to PFSweb Certain of our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results. The financial information for the periods October 1, 1999 to October 1, 2002 included in this Form 10-K reflect our then agreements with IBM and master distributors of certain IBM products (until July 2001 a third party, and from July 2001 until September 2002, Supplies Distributors, our then 49% owned subsidiary). Under these agreements, the master distributors owned and distributed the IBM product and we provided transaction management and fulfillment services to the master distributors. Under these agreements, we did not own the IBM product and our revenue was service fee revenue (based on product sales volume or other transaction based pricing) and not product revenue. In October 2002, we acquired the remaining 51% ownership interest in Supplies Distributors and we now consolidate 100% of Supplies Distributors’ financial position and results of operations into our consolidated financial statements. Upon consolidation, effective October 1, 2002, we own the IBM product and record product revenue as the product is sold to IBM customers. As a result of reflecting revenue earned under the master distributor agreements as product revenue in certain historical periods and as service fee revenue in others, our historical results of operations may not be indicative of our future operating or financial performance. We anticipate incurring significant expenses in the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. To reach our business growth objectives, we may increase our operating and marketing expenses, as well as capital expenditures. To offset these expenses, we will need to generate additional profitable business. If our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients’ projections indicate, or if our operating and marketing expenses exceed our expectations, we may not generate sufficient revenue to be profitable or be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis in the future. Additionally, if our revenue grows slower than either we anticipate or our clients’ projections indicate, we may incur unnecessary or redundant costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. We also expect to incur additional expenses upon the adoption of Statement on Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, Accounting for Stock-based Compensation. Our service fee revenue and gross margin is dependent upon our clients’ business and transaction volumes and our costs; many of our client service agreements are terminable by the client at will; We may incur financial 14 Table of Contents penalties if we fail to meet contractual service levels under certain client service agreements. Our service fee revenue is primarily transaction based and fluctuates with the volume of transactions or level of sales of the products by our clients for whom we provide transaction management services. If we are unable to retain existing clients or attract new clients or if we dedicate significant resources to clients whose business does not generate sufficient revenue or whose products do not generate substantial customer sales, our business may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, our ability to estimate service fee revenue for future periods is substantially dependent upon our clients’ and our own projections, the accuracy of which has been, and will continue to be, unpredictable. Therefore, our planning for client activity and targeted goals for service fee revenue and gross margin may be materially adversely affected by incomplete, delayed or inaccurate projections. In addition, many of our service agreements with our clients are terminable by the client at will. Therefore, we cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services for any period of time. The loss of a significant amount of service fee revenue due to client terminations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cover our costs and thus on our profitability. Certain of our client service agreements contain minimum service level requirements and impose financial penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The imposition of a substantial amount of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our operating results are materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Our business is materially impacted by our client mix and the seasonality of their business. Based upon our current client mix and their current projected business volumes, we anticipate our service fee revenue business activity will be at its lowest in the first quarter of our fiscal year and that our product revenue business activity will be at its highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. We believe results of operations for a quarterly period may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. We are unable to predict how the seasonality of future clients’ business may affect our quarterly revenue and whether the seasonality may change due to modifications to a client’s business. As such, we believe that results of operations for a quarterly period may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. Our systems may not accommodate significant growth in our number of clients. Our success depends on our ability to handle a large number of transactions for many different clients in various product categories. We expect that the volume of transactions will increase significantly as we expand our operations. If this occurs, additional stress will be placed upon the network hardware and software that manages our operations. We cannot assure you of our ability to efficiently manage a large number of transactions. If we are not able to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, we may develop a negative reputation, and impair existing and prospective client relationships and our business would be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to recover all or a portion of our start-up costs associated with one or more of our clients. We generally incur start-up costs in connection with the planning and implementation of business process solutions for our clients. Although we generally attempt to recover these costs from the client in the early stages of the client relationship, or upon contract termination if the client terminates without cause prior to full amortization of these costs, there is a risk that the client contract may not fully cover the start-up costs. To the extent start-up costs exceed the start-up fees received, excess costs will be expensed as incurred. Additionally, in connection with new client contracts we generally incur capital expenditures associated with assets whose primary use is related to the client solution. There is a risk that the contract may end before expected and we may not recover the full amount of our capital costs. Our revenue and margins may be materially impacted by client transaction volumes that differ from client projections and business assumptions. Our pricing for client transaction services, such as call center and fulfillment, is often based upon volume projections and business assumptions provided by the client and our anticipated costs to perform such work. In the event the actual level of activity or cost is substantially different from the projections or assumptions, we may have insufficient or excess staffing, incremental costs or other assets dedicated for such client that may negatively impact our margins and business relationship with such client. In the event we are unable to meet the service levels 15 Table of Contents expected by the client, our relationship with the client will suffer and may result in financial penalties and/or the termination of the client contract. Our business is subject to the risk of customer and supplier concentration. For the year ended December 31, 2005, a U.S. government agency (via a subcontract agreement), a consumer products company and Xerox Corporation represented approximately 27%, 16% and 12%, respectively, of our total service fee revenue, net of pass-through revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2004, a U.S. government agency (via a subcontract agreement) and Xerox Corporation represented approximately 43% and 15%, respectively, of our total service fee revenue, net of pass-through revenue. The loss of, or non-payment of invoices by, any or all of such U.S. agency, consumer products company or Xerox as clients would have a material adverse effect upon our business. In particular, the agreement under which we provide services to such clients are terminable at will upon notice by such clients. Substantially all of our product revenue was generated by sales of product purchased under master distributor agreements with IBM and is dependent on IBM’s business. Our product revenue business is dependent upon our master distributor relationship with IBM and the continuing market for IBM products. A termination of the relationship with IBM or a decline in customer demand for such products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to three customers accounted for approximately 14%, 12% and 11% of our total product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. Sales to two customers accounted for approximately 12% and 11% of our total product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. The loss of any one or more of such customers, or non-payment of any material amount by these or any other customer, would have a material adverse effect upon our business. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. GAAP are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions which were completed before a change is announced. Accounting rules affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to accounting for asset impairments, revenue recognition, arrangements involving multiple deliverables, employee stock purchase plans and stock option grants, have recently been revised or are currently under review. Changes to those rules or current interpretation of those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct our business. We operate with significant levels of indebtedness and are required to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants; We are required to maintain a minimum level of subordinated loans to our subsidiary Supplies Distributors; and we have guaranteed certain indebtedness and obligations of our subsidiaries Supplies Distributors and eCOST. As of December 31, 2005, our total credit facilities outstanding, including debt, capital lease obligations and our vendor accounts payable related to financing of IBM product inventory, was approximately $70.0 million. Certain of the credit facilities have maturity dates in calendar year 2007 or after, but are classified as current liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide assurance that our credit facilities will be renewed by the lending parties. Additionally, these credit facilities include both financial and non-financial covenants, many of which also include cross default provisions applicable to other agreements. These covenants also restrict our ability to transfer funds among our various subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to operate their businesses or comply with their respective loan covenants. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. Any non-renewal or any default under any of our credit facilities would have a material adverse impact upon our business and financial condition. In addition we have provided $7.0 million of subordinated indebtedness to Supplies Distributors, the minimum level required under certain credit facilities as of December 31, 2005. The maximum level of this subordinated indebtedness to Supplies Distributors that may be provided without approval from our lenders is $8.0 million. The restrictions on increasing this amount without lender approval may limit our ability to comply with certain loan covenants or further grow and develop Supplies Distributors’ business. We have guaranteed most of the indebtedness of Supplies Distributors. Furthermore, we are obligated to repay any over-advance made to Supplies Distributors by its lenders to the extent Supplies Distributors is unable to do so. We have also guaranteed eCOST’s $15 million credit line with Wachovia, as well as certain of its vendor trade payables. We currently expect that it may be necessary to provide additional guarantees of certain eCOST vendor trade payables in the future. 16 Table of Contents We face competition from many sources that could adversely affect our business. Many companies offer, on an individual basis, one or more of the same services we do, and we face competition from many different sources depending upon the type and range of services requested by a potential client. Our competitors include vertical outsourcers, which are companies that offer a single function, such as call centers, public warehouses or credit card processors. We compete against transportation logistics providers who offer product management functions as an ancillary service to their primary transportation services. We also compete against other business process outsourcing providers, who perform many similar services as us. Many of these companies have greater capabilities than we do for the single or multiple functions they provide. In many instances, our competition is the in-house operations of its potential clients themselves. The in-house operations of potential clients often believe that they can perform the same services we do, while others are reluctant to outsource business functions that involve direct customer contact. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against these or other competitors in the future. Our sales and implementation cycles are highly variable and our ability to finalize pending contracts may cause our operating results to vary widely. The sales cycle for our services is variable, typically ranging between several months to up to a year from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Occasionally the sales cycle requires substantially more time. Delays in signing and executing client contracts may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. We believe that a potential client’s decision to purchase our services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment of the client’s resources and is influenced by intense internal and external pricing and operating comparisons. To successfully sell our services, we generally must educate our potential clients regarding the use and benefit of our services, which can require significant time and resources. Consequently, the period between initial contact and the purchase of our services is often long and subject to delays associated with the lengthy approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant operational decisions. Additionally, the time required to finalize pending contracts and to implement our systems and integrate a new client can range from several weeks to many months. Delays in signing and integrating new clients may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. We are dependent on our key personnel, and we need to hire and retain skilled personnel to sustain our business. Our performance is highly dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we need to attract and retain other highly-skilled, technical and managerial personnel for whom there is intense competition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continuing growth of our business. Our inability to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel would materially adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. We currently operate a 150,000 square foot distribution center in Liege, Belgium and a 13,000 square foot distribution center in Richmond Hill, Canada, near Toronto, both of which currently have excess capacity. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding in these or any additional international markets. In addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenue from foreign operations and expand our international presence, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • changing regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainty regarding foreign laws, tariffs and other trade barriers; • political instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • cultural differences. 17 Table of Contents Any one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, such as increased costs, operational difficulties and reductions in revenue. We are uncertain about our need for and the availability of additional funds. Our future capital needs are difficult to predict. We may require additional capital to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, including strategic alliances and acquisitions and to fund capital expenditures, or to respond to changing business conditions and unanticipated competitive pressures. We may also require additional funds to finance operating losses, including continuing operating losses currently anticipated to be incurred by eCOST. Should these circumstances arise, our existing cash balance and credit facilities may be insufficient and we may need to raise additional funds either by borrowing money or issuing additional equity. We cannot assure you that such resources will be adequate or available for all of our future financing needs. Our inability to finance our growth, either internally or externally, may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. If we are successful in completing an additional equity financing, this could result in further dilution to our stockholders or reduce the market value of our common stock. We are subject to disputes with clients, customers and other authorities which, if not resolved in our favor, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, one or more of our clients or customers may dispute our invoices for services rendered or other charges. As of December 31, 2005, an aggregate of approximately $1.1 million of our invoices were in dispute. Although we believe it will resolve these disputes in our favor, the failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also receive municipal tax abatements in certain locations. During 2004 we received notice from a municipality that we did not satisfy certain criteria necessary to maintain the abatements. We plan to dispute the notice, but if the dispute is not resolved favorably, additional taxes of approximately $0.4 million to $0.5 million could be assessed against us for each of the calendar years 2005 and 2004. We may engage in future strategic alliances or acquisitions that could dilute our existing stockholders, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our business. We may review strategic alliance or acquisition opportunities that would complement our current business or enhance our technological capabilities. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through borrowing money or completing public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. We may not be able to operate any acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities or technologies effectively, our operating results could suffer. Future acquisitions could also result in incremental expenses and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Our business could be adversely affected by a systems or equipment failure, whether that of us or our clients. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our distribution facilities, customer service centers, computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems against damage and failures. Damage or failures could result from fire, power loss, equipment malfunctions, system failures, natural disasters and other causes. If our business is interrupted either from accidents or the intentional acts of others, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, in the event of widespread damage or failures at our facilities, our short-term disaster recovery and contingency plans and insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Our clients’ businesses may also be harmed from any system or equipment failures we experiences. In that event, our relationship with these clients may be adversely affected, we may lose these clients, our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to liability. Interruptions could also result from the intentional acts of others, like “hackers.” If our systems are penetrated by 18 Table of Contents computer hackers, or if computer viruses infect our systems, our computers could fail or proprietary information could be misappropriated. If our clients suffer similar interruptions in their operations, for any of the reasons discussed above or for others, our business could also be adversely affected. Many of our clients’ computer systems interface with our systems. If our clients suffer interruptions in their systems, the link to our systems could be severed and sales of the client’s products could be slowed or stopped. A breach of our e-commerce security measures could reduce demand for its services. Credit card fraud and other fraud could adversely affect our business. A requirement of the continued growth of e-commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Any compromise or elimination of our security could reduce demand for our services. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to address any problem they may cause. Because our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage its reputation, cause us to lose clients, impact our ability to attract new clients and we could be exposed to litigation and possible liability. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our operations. In certain circumstances, we do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud and other fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions on our client’s behalf could increase our expenses. To date we have not suffered material losses due to fraud. We may be a party to litigation involving our e-commerce intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patent and other intellectual property rights. We may be a party to intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our trade secrets or know-how. United States patent applications are confidential until a patent is issued and most technologies are developed in secret. Accordingly, we are not, and cannot be, aware of all patents or other intellectual property rights of which our services may pose a risk of infringement. Others asserting rights against us could force us to defend ourself or our customers against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend any such litigation. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, and the trading price of our common stock. We have begun a process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Based on the current requirements, and our current public float, we are not required to comply with Section 404. However, in this regard, our management has been dedicating internal resources, has engaged outside consultants and has begun to develop a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Business Process Outsourcing Industry If the trend toward outsourcing does not continue, our business will be adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected if the trend toward outsourcing declines or reverses, or if 19 Table of Contents corporations bring previously outsourced functions back in-house. Particularly during general economic downturns, businesses may bring in-house previously outsourced functions to avoid or delay layoffs. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad and the potential for sustained military action may cause disruption to commerce and economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and new client prospects. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and to compete we must continually enhance our systems to comply with evolving standards. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services and the underlying network infrastructure. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, client requirements or emerging industry standards, our business could be adversely affected. The internet and e-commerce environments are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to both internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance PFSweb’s existing services and develop new services. We must continue to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to develop new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price could decline if a significant number of shares become available for sale. As of March 31, 2006, we had issued and outstanding 528,382 warrants to purchase common stock (having an exercise price of $2.47 per share). In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we have an aggregate of 5,387,185 stock options outstanding to employees, directors and others with a weighted average exercise price of $1.27 per share. The shares of common stock that may be issued upon exercise of these warrants and options may be resold into the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market as a result of the exercise of these warrants or options, or the perception that future sales of these shares could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to sell equity securities in the future. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. You may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, announcements of material adverse events, general conditions in our industry or the public marketplace and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many technology related companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our operating results differ from our announced guidance or the expectations of equity research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors, meaning that only approximately one-third of our directors may be subject to re-election at each annual stockholder meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock which may have rights and preferences superior to those of the common stock. The ability to issue preferred stock could 20 Table of Contents have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan. These provisions could discourage takeover attempts and could materially adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of us. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Pursuant to our bylaws and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. Risks Related our Merger with eCOST We may fail to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and other benefits expected from the merger, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We entered into a merger with eCOST with the expectation that the merger will result in synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and other benefits to the combined company. However, the ability to realize these anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the business of eCOST with our business. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. It is possible that these integration efforts will not be completed as smoothly as planned or that these efforts will divert management attention for an extended period of time. Delays encountered in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on the revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition for us. Although we expect significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, to result from the merger, there can be no assurance that we will realize any of these anticipated benefits. Stockholders may receive a lower return on their investment after the merger. Although we believe that the merger will create financial, operational and strategic benefits for the combined company and its stockholders, these benefits may not be achieved. The combination of our businesses, even if conducted in an efficient, effective and timely manner, may not result in combined financial performance that is better than what our company would have achieved independently if the merger had not occurred. Uncertainty regarding the merger may cause clients, customers, suppliers and others to delay or defer decisions concerning us and eCOST, which may harm the results of operations of either or both companies. In response to our completion of the merger, clients, customers and suppliers may delay or defer outsourcing, purchasing or supply decisions or otherwise alter existing relationships with us and eCOST. Prospective clients and customers could be reluctant to contract for the combined company’s services or purchase the combined company’s products due to uncertainty about the combined company’s ability to efficiently provide products and services. In addition, clients, customers, suppliers and others may also seek to terminate or change existing agreements with us or eCOST as a result of the merger. These and other actions by clients, customers, suppliers and others could negatively affect the business of the combined company. Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause us and eCOST to lose key personnel. Our current and prospective employees and eCOST employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company until or after strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. In addition, eCOST does not have employment agreements with any of its key employees other than with its Chief Executive Officer, Adam Shaffer. These uncertainties may adversely affect PFSweb’s and eCOST’s ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. If a substantial number of key employees leave as a result of the merger, or the combined company fails to attract key personnel, the combined company’s business could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents eCOST may be required to indemnify PC Mall for taxes arising as a result of the merger. In connection with the consummation of the merger, eCOST received a written opinion from its legal counsel to the effect that the merger should not cause Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code to apply to the April 2005 spin-off of eCOST from its former parent, PC Mall. Such opinion was based on certain factual representations made by PC Mall and eCOST and certain factual and legal assumptions made by eCOST’s legal counsel. Such opinion represented such legal counsel’s best judgment regarding the application of the U.S. federal income tax laws, but is not binding on the IRS or the courts. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position or that any such contrary position would not be sustained by a court. If the Merger does cause Section 355(e) to apply to the April 2005 spin-off of eCOST from PC Mall, eCOST must indemnify PC Mall for any resulting tax-related liabilities. Risks Related to eCOST eCOST may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. eCOST has incurred continuing operating losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. eCOST’s ability to achieve or maintain profitability depends on a number of factors, including its ability to: • increase sales; • maintain and expand vendor relationships; • obtain additional and increase existing trade credit with key suppliers; • generate sufficient gross profit; and • control costs and generate the expected synergies applicable to the merger. eCOST needs additional financing and may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all, which could increase its costs and limit its ability to grow. eCOST needs to obtain additional financing and there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. eCOST’s failure to obtain additional financing or its inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms could materially adversely affect its ability to achieve profitability and grow its business. eCOST’s operating results are difficult to predict. eCOST’s operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which it cannot control. eCOST operates in a highly dynamic industry and future results could be subject to significant fluctuations. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than revenue and expenses in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of eCOST operating results are not necessarily a good indication of its future performance. Some of the factors that could cause eCOST’s operating results to fluctuate include: • price competition that results in lower sales volumes, lower profit margins, or net losses; • fluctuations in coupon redemption rates; • the amount, timing and impact of advertising and marketing costs; • eCOST’s ability to successfully implement new technologies or software systems; • eCOST’s ability to obtain sufficient financing; • changes in the number of visitors to the eCOST website or eCOST’s inability to convert those visitors into customers; • technical difficulties, including system or Internet failures; • fluctuations in the demand for eCOST products or overstocking or understocking of products; • management of the eCOST fulfillment center; • fluctuations in freight revenues and costs, particularly during the holiday season; • economic conditions generally or economic conditions specific to the Internet, online commerce, the retail 22 Table of Contents industry or the mail order industry; • changes in the mix of products that eCOST sells; and • fluctuations in levels of inventory theft, damage or obsolescence. If eCOST fails to accurately predict its inventory risk, its margins may decline as a result of write-downs of its inventory due to lower prices obtained from older or obsolete products. Some of the products eCOST sells on its website are characterized by rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion (for example, computer hardware, software and consumer electronics), and because eCOST may sometimes stock large quantities of particular types of inventory, inventory reserves may be required or may subsequently prove insufficient, and additional inventory write-downs may be required. Increased product returns or a failure to accurately predict product returns could decrease eCOST’s revenues and impact profitability. eCOST makes allowances for product returns in its financial statements based on historical return rates. eCOST is responsible for returns of certain products ordered through its website from its distribution center as well as products that are shipped to its customers directly from its vendors. If eCOST’s actual product returns significantly exceed its allowances for returns, especially as eCOST expands into new product categories, its revenues and profitability could decrease. In addition, because eCOST’s allowances are based on historical return rates, the introduction of new merchandise categories, new products, changes in its product mix, or other factors may cause actual returns to exceed return allowances, perhaps significantly. In addition, any policies intended to reduce the number of product returns may result in customer dissatisfaction and fewer repeat customers. eCOST’s ability to offer a broad selection of products at competitive prices is dependent on its ability to maintain existing and build new relationships with manufacturers and vendors. eCOST does not have long-term agreements with its manufacturers or vendors and some of its manufacturers and vendors compete directly with eCOST. eCOST purchases products for resale both directly from manufacturers and indirectly through distributors and other sources, all of whom eCOST considers its vendors. During 2005, eCOST offered products on its website from over 1,000 third-party manufacturers. eCOST does not have any long-term agreements with any of these vendors. Any agreements with vendors governing eCOST’s purchase of products are generally terminable by either party upon 30 days’ notice or less. In general, eCOST agrees to offer products on its website and the vendors agree to provide eCOST with information about their products and honor eCOST customer service policies. If eCOST does not maintain relationships with vendors on acceptable terms, including favorable product pricing and vendor consideration, it may not be able to offer a broad selection of products or continue to offer products at competitive prices, and customers may choose not to shop at the eCOST website. In addition, some vendors may decide not to offer particular products for sale on the Internet, and others may avoid offering their new products to retailers such as eCOST who offer a mix of close-out and refurbished products in addition to new products. From time to time, vendors may terminate eCOST’s right to sell some or all of their products, change the applicable terms and conditions of sale or reduce or discontinue the incentives or vendor consideration that they offer. Any such termination or the implementation of such changes could have a negative impact on eCOST’s operating results. Additionally, some products are subject to manufacturer or distributor allocation, which limits the number of units of those products that are available to eCOST and other resellers. eCOST’s revenue is dependent in part on sales of HP and HP-related products, which represented 28% of net sales in 2005, 27% in 2004 and 21% in 2003. eCOST is dependent on the success of its advertising and marketing efforts, which are costly and may not achieve desired results, and on its ability to attract customers on cost-effective terms. eCOST’s revenues depend on its ability to advertise and market its products effectively. Increases in the costs of advertising and marketing, including costs of online advertising, paper and postage costs, costs and fees of third-party service providers and the costs of complying with applicable regulations, may limit eCOST’s ability to advertise and market its business without impacting its profitability. If eCOST’s advertising and marketing efforts 23 Table of Contents prove ineffective or do not produce a sufficient level of sales to cover their costs, or if eCOST decreases its advertising or marketing activities due to increased costs, restrictions enacted by regulatory agencies or for any other reason, eCOST’s revenues and profit margins may decrease. eCOST’s success depends on its ability to attract customers on cost-effective terms. eCOST has relationships with online services, search engines, shopping engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses through which it provide advertising banners and other links that direct customers to the eCOST website. eCOST expects to rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to the eCOST website and to generate new customers. If eCOST is unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, its ability to attract new customers on a cost-effective basis could be harmed. In addition, certain of eCOST’s existing online marketing agreements require it to pay fixed placement fees or fees for directing visits to the eCOST website, neither of which may convert into sales. Because eCOST experiences seasonal fluctuations in its revenues, its quarterly results may fluctuate. eCOST’s business is moderately seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales for the retail industry during the holiday shopping season. Typically, a larger portion of its revenues occur during the first and fourth fiscal quarters. eCOST believes that its historical revenue growth makes it difficult to predict the effect of seasonality on its future revenues and results of operations. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the first and fourth quarter, eCOST incurs additional expenses, including higher inventory and staffing costs. If sales for the first and fourth quarter do not meet anticipated levels, then increased expenses may not be offset which could decrease eCOST’s profitability. If eCOST were to experience lower than expected sales during its first or fourth quarter, for any reason, it would decrease eCOST’s profitability. eCOST’s business may be harmed by fraudulent activities on its website. eCOST has received in the past, and anticipates that it will receive in the future, communications from customers due to purported fraudulent activities on the eCOST website. Negative publicity generated as a result of fraudulent conduct by third parties could damage eCOST’s reputation and diminish the value of its brand name. Fraudulent activities on eCOST’s website could also subject it to losses. eCOST expects to continue to receive requests from customers for reimbursement due to purportedly fraudulent activities or threats of legal action if no reimbursement is made. eCOST’s business could be subject to political, economic and other risks associated with the Philippines. To reduce costs, eCOST is evaluating shifting certain of its operations to the Philippines, which would subject eCOST to political, economic and other uncertainties, including expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, or nullification of existing contracts, currency exchange restrictions and international monetary fluctuations. Furthermore, the Philippines has experienced violence related to guerrilla activity. Delivery of eCOST’s products could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond its control, and it could lose customers as a result. eCOST relies upon third party carriers for timely delivery of its product shipments. As a result, eCOST is subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond its control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and increased fuel costs. Any failure to deliver products to customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage eCOST’s reputation and brand and could cause it to lose customers. eCOST does not have a written long-term agreement with any of these third party carriers, and it cannot be sure that these relationships will continue on terms favorable to eCOST, if at all. If eCOST’s relationship with any of these third party carriers is terminated or impaired or if any of these third parties is unable to deliver products, eCOST would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to customers. eCOST may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include: • reduced visibility of order status and package tracking; • delays in order processing and product delivery; • increased cost of delivery, resulting in reduced margins; and • reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction. 24 Table of Contents If eCOST does not successfully expand its website and processing systems to accommodate higher levels of traffic and changing customer demands, it could lose customers and its revenues could decline. To remain competitive, eCOST must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of its website. If eCOST fails to upgrade its website in a timely manner to accommodate higher volumes of traffic, its website performance could suffer and eCOST may lose customers. The Internet and the e-commerce industry are subject to rapid technological change. If competitors introduce new features and website enhancements embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, eCOST’s existing website and systems may become obsolete or unattractive. Developing the eCOST website and other systems entails significant technical and business risks. eCOST may face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. If this happens, customers may forgo the use of eCOST’s website and use those of its competitors. eCOST may use new technologies ineffectively, or it may fail to adapt its website, transaction processing systems and computer network to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If eCOST fails to successfully expand its merchandise categories and product offerings in a cost-effective and timely manner, its reputation and the value of its new and existing brands could be harmed, customer demand for its products could decline and its profit margins could decrease. eCOST has generated the substantial majority of its revenues during the past five years from the sale of computer hardware, software and accessories and consumer electronics products. In the past 18 months eCOST launched several new product categories, including digital imaging, watches and jewelry, housewares, DVD movies, video games, travel, bed and bath, apparel and accessories, licensed sports gear and cellular/wireless. While its merchandising platform has been incorporated into and tested in the online computer and consumer electronics retail markets, eCOST cannot predict with certainty whether it can be successfully applied to other product categories. In addition, expansion of its business strategy into new product categories may require eCOST to incur significant marketing expenses, develop relationships with new vendors and comply with new regulations. eCOST may lack the necessary expertise in a new product category to realize the expected benefits of that new category. These requirements could strain managerial, financial and operational resources. Additional challenges that may affect eCOST’s ability to expand into new product categories include its ability to: • establish or increase awareness of new brands and product categories; • acquire, attract and retain customers at a reasonable cost; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across all product categories; • attract a sufficient number of new customers to whom new product categories are targeted; • successfully market new product offerings to existing customers; • maintain or improve gross margins and fulfillment costs; • attract and retain vendors to provide an expanded line of products to customers on terms that are acceptable; and • manage inventory in new product categories. eCOST cannot be certain that it will be able to successfully address any or all of these challenges in a manner that will enable it to expand its business into new product categories in a cost-effective or timely manner. If eCOST’s new categories of products or services are not received favorably, or if its suppliers fail to meet eCOST’s customers’ expectations, eCOST’s results of operations would suffer and its reputation and the value of the applicable new brand and other brands could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of eCOST new product categories or inability to generate satisfactory revenues from any expanded product categories to offset their cost could harm eCOST’s business. If eCOST is unable to provide satisfactory customer service, it could lose customers. eCOST’s ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its customer service operations. Any material disruption or slowdown in its order processing systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. If eCOST is unable to continually provide adequate staffing and training for its customer service operations, its reputation could be seriously harmed and eCOST could lose customers. Because eCOST’s success depends in large 25 Table of Contents part on keeping its customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer service would likely impair its reputation and decrease its revenues. eCOST may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. The market for online sales of the products eCOST offers is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. eCOST principally competes with a variety of online retailers, specialty retailers and other businesses that offer products similar to or the same as eCOST’s products. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. eCOST expects competition to intensify in the future because current and new competitors can enter the market with little difficulty and can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. In addition, some of eCOST’s product vendors have sold, and continue to intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to customers. eCOST currently or potentially competes with a variety of businesses, including: • other multi-category online retailers such as Amazon.com and Buy.com; • online discount retailers of computer and consumer electronics merchandise such as Computers4Sure, NewEgg and TigerDirect; • liquidation e-tailers such as Overstock.com and SmartBargains.com; • consumer electronics and office supply superstores such as Best Buy, Circuit City, CompUSA, Office Depot, OfficeMax and Staples; and • manufacturers such as Apple, Dell, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard and IBM, that sell directly to customers. Many of the current and potential competitors described above have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than eCOST. In addition, online retailers may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies. Some of eCOST’s competitors may be able to secure products from manufacturers or vendors on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than eCOST is able to. If the protection of eCOST’s trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, its brand and reputation could be impaired and it could lose customers. eCOST has six trademarks that it considers to be material to the successful operation of business: eCOST(R), eCOST.com(R), eCOST.com Bargain Countdown™, eCOST.com Your Online Discount Superstore!™, Bargain Countdown™ and Bargain Countdown Platinum Club™. eCOST currently uses all of these marks in connection with telephone, mail order, catalog and online retail services. eCOST also has several additional pending trademark applications. eCOST relies on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect its proprietary rights. eCOST’s applications may not be granted, and eCOST may not be able to secure significant protection for its service marks or trademarks. eCOST’s competitors or others could adopt trademarks or service marks similar to its marks, or try to prevent eCOST from using its marks, thereby impeding its ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Any claim by another party against eCOST for customer confusion caused by use of eCOST’s trademarks or service marks, or eCOST’s failure to obtain registrations for its marks, could negatively affect its competitive position and could cause it to lose customers. eCOST has also filed an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for patent protection for its proprietary Bargain Countdown™ technology. eCOST may not be granted a patent for this technology and may not be able to enforce its patent rights if its competitors or others use infringing technology. If this occurs, eCOST’s competitive position, revenues and profitability could be negatively affected. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which eCOST will sell its products and offer its services. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, eCOST may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or 26 Table of Contents otherwise decrease the value of its trademarks and other proprietary rights. If eCOST is unable to protect or preserve the value of its trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, eCOST’s competitive position could be negatively affected and it could lose customers. eCOST also relies on technologies that it licenses from related and third parties. These licenses may not continue to be available to eCOST on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. As a result, eCOST may be required to develop or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or at greater cost, which could negatively affect its competitive position, cause it to lose customers and decrease its profitability. If third parties claim eCOST is infringing their intellectual property rights, eCOST could incur significant litigation costs, be required to pay damages, or change its business or incur licensing expenses. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that eCOST’s business or the technologies it uses infringe on their intellectual property rights. As a result, eCOST may be subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. eCOST cannot predict whether third parties will assert additional claims of infringement in the future or whether any future claims will prevent it from offering popular products or services. On July 12, 2004, eCOST received correspondence from MercExchange LLC alleging infringement of its U.S. patents relating to e-commerce and offering to license its patent portfolio to eCOST. On July 15, 2004, eCOST received a follow-up letter from MercExchange specifying which of eCOST’s technologies it believes infringe certain of its patents, alone or in combination with technologies provided by third parties. Some of those patents are currently being litigated by third parties, and eCOST is not involved in those proceedings. In addition, three of the four patents identified by MercExchange are under reexamination at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which may or may not result in the modification of the claims. In the July 15(th) letter, MercExchange also advised that it has a number of applications pending for additional patents. MercExchange has filed lawsuits alleging infringement of some or all of its patents against third parties, resulting in settlements or verdicts in favor of MercExchange. At least one such verdict was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and was affirmed in part. The defendant in that case filed a petition for certiorari before the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in November 2005. A decision is expected before June 2006. If eCOST is forced to defend against these or any other third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in its favor, eCOST could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could result in the imposition of a preliminary injunction preventing it from continuing to operate its business as currently conducted throughout the duration of the litigation or distract eCOST’s technical and management personnel. If eCOST is found to infringe, it may be required to pay monetary damages, which could include treble damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringement that is found to be willful, and either be enjoined or required to pay ongoing royalties with respect to any technologies found to infringe. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against eCOST or against those who license technology to eCOST, eCOST may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing technology, which could be costly and time consuming, or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable, or at all. eCOST expects that participants in its market will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of competitors in the industry grows. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against eCOST and it is enjoined or required to pay monetary damages or royalties or eCOST is unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms on a timely basis, eCOST’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. eCOST may be liable for misappropriation of its customers’ personal information. Data security laws are becoming more stringent in the United States and abroad. Third parties are engaging in increased cyber attacks against companies doing business on the Internet and individuals are increasingly subjected to identity and credit card theft on the Internet. If third parties or unauthorized employees are able to penetrate eCOST’s network security or otherwise misappropriate its customers’ personal information or credit card information, or if eCOST gives third parties or its employees improper access to customers’ personal information or credit card information, eCOST could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. This liability could also include 27 Table of Contents claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. Liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease eCOST’s profitability. In such circumstances, eCOST also could be liable for failing to provide timely notice of a data security breach affecting certain types of personal information. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have brought numerous enforcement actions against Internet companies for alleged deficiencies in those companies’ privacy and data security practices, and they may continue to bring such actions. eCOST could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the collection, use or storage of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy or security practices. eCOST relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of sensitive customer information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that eCOST uses to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could subject eCOST to liability, damage its reputation and diminish the value of its brand-name. A party who is able to circumvent the security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in operations. eCOST may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. eCOST’s security measures are designed to prevent security breaches, but its failure to prevent such security breaches could subject eCOST to liability, damage its reputation and diminish the value of its brand-name. Moreover, for the convenience of its customers, eCOST provides non-secured channels for customers to communicate. Despite the increased security risks, customers may use such channels to send personal information and other sensitive data. In addition, “phishing” incidents are on the rise. Phishing involves an online company’s customers being tricked into providing their credit card numbers or account information to someone pretending to be the online company’s representative. Such incidents have recently given rise to litigation against online companies for failing to take sufficient steps to police against such activities by third parties, and may discourage customers from using online services. eCOST may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming. eCOST sells products manufactured and distributed by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product that eCOST sells were to cause physical injury or damage to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against eCOST as the retailer of the product. eCOST’s insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against eCOST in excess of its insurance coverage, it could expose it to significant liability. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could decrease profitability. Risks Related to eCOST’s Industry eCOST’s success is tied to the continued use of the Internet and the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. eCOST’s future revenues and profits, if any, substantially depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication. If use of the Internet declines or the Internet infrastructure becomes an ineffective medium for business transactions and communication, eCOST may not be able to effectively implement its growth strategy and it could lose customers. Widespread use of the Internet could decline as a result of disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers or users’ computers. Additionally, if the Internet’s infrastructure does not expand fast enough to meet increasing levels of use, it may become a less effective medium of business transactions and communications. The security risks of e-commerce may discourage customers from purchasing goods over the Internet. In order for the e-commerce market to develop successfully, eCOST and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of eCOST’s website and choose not to purchase from the website. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt operations. Concerns about the 28 Table of Contents security and privacy of transactions over the Internet could inhibit the growth of the Internet and e-commerce. Security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to information. Any security breach could expose eCOST to risks of loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt its operations. Credit card fraud could decrease eCOST’s revenues and profitability. eCOST does not currently carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce its revenues and gross margin. eCOST may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, eCOST may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because it did not obtain a cardholder’s signature. If eCOST is unable to detect or control credit card fraud, or if credit card companies require more burdensome terms or refuse to accept credit card charges, eCOST’s revenues and profitability could decrease. Additional sales and use taxes could be imposed on past or future sales of eCOST’s products or other products sold on eCOST’s website, which could adversely affect eCOST’s revenues and profitability. In accordance with current industry practice and eCOST’s interpretation of applicable law, eCOST collects and remits sales taxes only with respect to physical shipments of goods into states where eCOST has a physical presence. If any state or other jurisdiction successfully challenges this practice and imposes sales and use taxes on orders on which eCOST does not collect and remit sales taxes, eCOST could be exposed to substantial tax liabilities for past sales and could suffer decreased sales in that state or jurisdiction in the future. In addition, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various legislative initiatives that could result in the imposition of additional sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives are enacted, eCOST could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states where eCOST does not have a physical presence. Future changes in the operation of eCOST’s business also could result in the imposition of additional sales and use tax obligations. The imposition of additional sales and use taxes on past or future sales could adversely affect eCOST’s revenues and profitability. Existing or future government regulation could expose eCOST to liabilities and costly changes in its business operations, and could reduce customer demand for its products. eCOST is subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, marketing and promotional practices, database protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, email and other communications, consumer protection, product safety, the provision of online payment services, intellectual property rights, unauthorized access (including the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act), and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is unclear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, trespass, data mining and collection, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may expose eCOST to liabilities and costly changes in its business operations, and could reduce customer demand. The growth and demand for online commerce has and may continue to result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on online companies. For example, California law requires notice to California customers if certain personal information about them is obtained by an unauthorized person, such as a computer hacker. These consumer protection laws could result in substantial compliance costs and could decrease profitability. Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of eCOST’s Internet business or its marketing efforts. eCOST is subject to increasing regulation relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, eCOST is subject to various telemarketing and anti-spam laws that regulate the manner in which it may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing the business. In addition, several jurisdictions, including California, have adopted legislation limiting the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. Pursuant to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Federal Trade Commission has 29 Table of Contents adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13 years of age. Increasingly, federal, state and foreign laws and regulations extend online privacy protection to adults. Moreover, in jurisdictions where eCOST does business, there is a trend toward requiring companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, to obtain prior consent from users for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information (even disclosure to affiliates), and to provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by companies. These data protection regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict eCOST’s ability to collect, use or transfer demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm marketing efforts. Further, any violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject eCOST to fines, penalties and damages, as well as harm to its reputation, which could decrease its revenues and profitability. 30 Table of Contents 