Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in ENR Stock involves risks. Energizer may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports it files with the SEC in the future. General economic conditions can significantly affect Energizer’s financial results. Energizer’s financial results can be significantly affected by general economic conditions, inflationary pressures, high labor or material and commodity costs and unforeseen changes in consumer demand or buying patterns. In the past year, substantial increases in the cost of zinc, a key ingredient in primary batteries, impacted results and necessitated an across-the-board price increase. Changes in Energizer’s ability to generate sufficient internal cash flows, as well as access to capital markets, interest rate fluctuations and other conditions which impact the ability to borrow, may negatively affect Energizer’s ability to support capital expansion plans, share repurchase programs, general operations, research and development activity, and advertising and promotional activities. 10 Energizer operates in highly competitive industries. The battery industry and the wet-shave industry, as well as the feminine care, skin care and infant care industries of Playtex, are highly competitive, both in the United States and on a global basis, as a limited number of large manufacturers compete for consumer acceptance and limited retail shelf space. Competition is based upon brand perceptions, product performance and innovation, customer service and price. Energizer’s ability to compete effectively may be affected by a number of factors: Energizer’s primary competitor in batteries and wet shave products, as well as a significant competitor in feminine care products, The Procter & Gamble Company, has substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and greater market share, than Energizer does, as well as significant scale and negotiating leverage with retailers. Energizer’s competitors, in the industries in which it competes, may have lower production, sales and distribution costs, and higher profit margins, than Energizer, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering retail discounts and other promotional incentives. Loss of key retail customers to competitors may erode Energizer’s market share. The battery, wet shave, feminine care, skin care and infant care industries have been notable for the pace of innovations in product life, product design and applied technology. Energizer and its competitors have made, and continue to make, investments in research and development with the goal of further innovation. If competitors introduce new or enhanced products that significantly outperform Energizer’s, or if they develop or apply manufacturing technology which permits them to manufacture at a significantly lower cost relative to Energizer’s, Energizer may be unable to compete successfully in the market segments affected by these changes. Continuing increases in raw material costs could erode Energizer’s profit margins, which could harm operating results. Increases in the prices of raw materials such as zinc, nickel and steel could significantly affect our profit margins. In particular, during 2006 and 2007 we experienced extraordinary price increases for raw materials, particularly as a result of strong demand from China. Energizer has attempted to address these cost increases through cost reduction programs and price increases for its products. If price increases continue to occur, they may not be fully offset by these measures, which could harm Energizer’s financial condition and operating results. Energizer’s foreign operations are very significant to it, and results can be impacted by a number of risks specific to international operations. Energizer’s businesses are currently conducted on a worldwide basis, with more than half of its sales arising out of foreign operations, and a significant portion of its production capacity located overseas. Consequently, Energizer is subject to a number of significant risks associated with its subsidiaries doing business in foreign countries. The operating profits of Energizer may decline because of changes in the value of local currencies, or because of hyperinflationary conditions in developing economies. Other risks and considerations include: the effect of foreign income and withholding taxes and the U.S. tax implications of foreign source income and losses, and other restrictions on the flow of capital between countries; the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls; adverse changes in local investment or exchange control regulations; political instability, government nationalization of business or industries, government corruption, and civil unrest. 11 Energizer’s acquisition of Playtex was very significant to it, and the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could be impacted by a number of risks specific to the Playtex businesses, as well as by risks related to the integration process. The process of integrating the Playtex operations into Energizer’s operations could result in unforeseen operating difficulties, absorb significant management attention, and require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of Energizer’s existing operations or debt reduction. Anticipated synergies could take longer to achieve or be significantly less than anticipated, and business restructuring, job eliminations and business disruptions associated with those synergies could result in revenue or earnings declines or negatively impact relationships with customers, employees or suppliers of the Playtex businesses or Energizer’s wet shave business. Because Energizer assumed all liabilities of the Playtex businesses, unknown, unforeseen, or larger than estimated liabilities associated with the operation of those businesses prior to the acquisition could become significant to Energizer. Many of the products of Playtex are subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the Food and Drug Administration continues to result in increases in the amounts of required testing and documentation. The regulatory agencies with purview over the operations of Playtex businesses have administrative powers that may result in such actions as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases it may be deemed advisable for Energizer to initiate product recalls. Potential health risks caused by certain Playtex products could also result in significant product liability claims or consumer complaints. These potential regulatory actions and claims could materially restrict or impede the operations of Playtex and adversely affect its operating results. Other risks and considerations include: the negative impact of unfavorable weather conditions, given that, in accordance with industry practice Playtex customers may return unsold sun care products at the end of the season under certain circumstances, and such product returns may be higher than average in years when the weather is unseasonably cool or wet; and the possibility that third party manufacturers, which produce a significant portion of certain Playtex products, could discontinue production with little or no advance notice, or experience problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery, resulting in manufacturing delays or disruptions, regulatory sanctions, product liability claims or consumer complaints; 12 In order to complete the acquisition of Playtex and refinance existing Playtex indebtedness, Energizer took on substantial debt, which could impair its financial condition. Although Energizer believes that its cash flows will allow it to quickly reduce its outstanding debt, its current debt level is in excess of $3 billion as a result of its financing of the Playtex acquisition. Unforeseen fluctuations in post-acquisition operating cash flows or inability to maintain compliance with debt covenants, including Energizer’s debt to EBITDA ratio, could result in a breach of the ratio covenants and consequent default on existing debt facilities. Energizer’s ability to meet future operating expenses and liquidity requirements, fund capital expenditures or service debt as it becomes due could also be impacted. The degree of Energizer’s indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: Energizer’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, general corporate purposes or other purposes could be impaired; A significant portion of Energizer’s cash from operations could be dedicated to the payment of interest on its debt, which could reduce the funds available for operations; The level of our debt could leave Energizer vulnerable in a period of significant economic downturn; and; Energizer may not be financially able to withstand significant and sustained competitive pressures. In addition, the descriptions of risk factors impacting Energizer appearing under “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Battery Business Overview, Razors and Blades Business Overview, and Acquisition of Playtex Products, Inc. (Playtex)” on pages 10 and 11, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Liquidity and Capital Resources” on pages 14 and 15, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Inflation” on page 16, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Environmental Matters” on page 16, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions” on pages 15 and 16, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Critical Accounting Policies” on pages 16 and 17, and “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Forward-Looking Information” on page 18, of the Energizer Holdings, Inc. 2007 Annual Report, are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 13 