Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results In addition to the other information contained in this 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following factors in evaluating OpenTV and our business. We have a history of net losses, and we may continue to experience net losses in the future. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately $8.5 million, $22.0 million and $54.1 million, respectively. While we have recently narrowed our net losses, we, nonetheless, expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses. It is, therefore, likely that we will continue to suffer net losses in the near term. We will need to generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot be certain that we will achieve, sustain or increase profitability in the future. Any failure to significantly increase revenue as we implement our product and distribution strategies would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 Table of Contents We have historically derived a significant percentage of our revenues from licensing our middleware to network operators. Our opportunities for future revenue growth with middleware are limited by the actual number of worldwide network operators and by technology decisions they make from time to time. We have, on a historic basis, derived a significant percentage of our total revenues from royalties associated with the deployment of our middleware and integrated technologies and fees charged for services rendered in support of those deployments. While we continue to seek deployments within the United States, we already have a significant number of customers outside of the United States that have deployed our middleware. In most cases, the number of network operators in any particular country is relatively small, and to the extent that we have already achieved deployments in those countries, the opportunities for future growth of our middleware and integrated technologies business may be limited. Our capacity to generate future revenues associated with our middleware may also be limited due to a number of reasons, including: • network operators that have selected our middleware may switch to another middleware platform for the provision of interactive services, reduce their pace of set-top box deployment or stop deploying set-top boxes enabled with our middleware, decrease or stop their use of our support services, or choose not to upgrade or add additional features to the version of our middleware running on their networks; • network operators that have not selected our middleware may choose another middleware platform for the provision of interactive services, which could include the selection of standards-based solutions such as MHP or OCAP in various countries; or • a meaningful opportunity to deploy our middleware in the markets that have not yet adopted interactive television on a large scale may never develop or may develop at a very slow pace. Any of these eventualities would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We offer volume discounts to certain customers, which may, over time, depress our average pricing. While deployments of our software may continue to grow, those discounts, as they are triggered, may limit the rate of our royalty growth in the future. In certain instances, we provide volume discounts to customers based on the number of copies of our software that they deploy. As a result, although we may experience continued growth in middleware deployments, the average price for each copy licensed to certain customers may decline over time, which could limit the growth of our royalty payments in the future. We experienced this effect in 2005, as our royalty and license revenues from Sky Italia declined by $3.3 million compared to 2004 because of volume discounts. We have historically provided various types of volume discounts to our customers and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. Unless we are able to offset anticipated discounts through a change in product mix, upgrades to our software or other methods that typically enable us to charge higher fees, we may experience slower royalty growth as discounting is triggered. We expect a more significant portion of our revenue growth in the future to be derived from interactive applications that we develop and market. If we are not successful in developing and marketing interactive applications, our future revenue growth may be limited. We expect over the next several years to develop extensive interactive applications, including advanced advertising solutions and participation television applications. The market for interactive applications is still nascent and evolving. Historically, we have derived only a relatively small percentage of our total revenue from these offerings. We cannot be certain that the demand for, or the market acceptance of, interactive applications will develop as we anticipate, and even if they do, we cannot be certain that we will be able to market those applications effectively. In addition, our ability to market those products will be affected to a large degree by network operators. If network operators determine that our interactive applications do not meet their business or operational expectations, they may choose not to offer our applications to their customers. To the extent that network operators fail to renew or enter into new or expanded contracts with us for provision of interactive content, such as our enhanced television service, and applications, such as the 12 Table of Contents PlayJam channel, we will be unable to maintain or increase the level of distribution of our interactive applications and the associated revenue from those offerings. Moreover, due to global economic conditions, network operators may slow down their deployment of new content and applications offerings, and such actions would negatively impact our revenue. Accordingly, our ability to generate substantial revenues from our interactive content and applications offerings is uncertain. Two of our potential North American cable customers, Cox Communications and Comcast Corporation, joined together in early 2005 to acquire certain assets from Liberate Technologies, one of our direct competitors in the middleware business. That acquisition, which closed in April 2005, is likely to eliminate Cox and Comcast as potential customers for our middleware, which could adversely affect our ability to grow. In April 2005, Double C Technologies, a joint venture formed by Cox Communications and Comcast Corporation, acquired substantially all of the assets of Liberate’s North American business. Our middleware competes directly with the middleware software included within those assets transferred by Liberate. To date, while we have licensed certain of our technologies to Comcast, and expect to pursue additional applications opportunities with both Cox and Comcast, we have not licensed to either of these companies our middleware solutions. Based on our current understanding of the circumstances, we would not expect Cox or Comcast, in light of the assets that they acquired from Liberate, to license middleware or related solutions from us. As a result, our opportunity to license our middleware in the United States to cable operators may have been materially diminished and our future revenue growth adversely affected. In addition, it is unclear whether Double C Technologies will only develop that technology for the benefit of Comcast and Cox or whether it will attempt to sell that technology and related products to other cable operators in competition with OpenTV. A significant percentage of our revenues are currently provided by entities affiliated with The News Corporation, which also controls companies that compete with us in certain market segments. Those circumstances may make it more difficult for us, over the long-term, to sell products, technologies or services to News Corporation affiliates in market segments in which other News Corporation affiliates offer competing products. The News Corporation currently controls NDS Group and Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc., each of which competes with us in certain respects. The News Corporation also controls, directly or indirectly, or exerts significant influence over, a number of our customers, including BSkyB, Sky Italia and FOXtel. For the year ended December 31, 2005, BSkyB, Sky Italia and FOXtel, accounted, in the aggregate, for 34% of our revenues. While we believe that our relationships with each of these customers is good, and we have multi-year contracts with each, the long-term implications of The News Corporation owning technology companies that directly compete with us in certain respects is difficult to assess. We may be at a disadvantage in selling certain of our products, technologies or services to The News Corporation affiliates over the long-term when in direct competition with other companies in which The News Corporation maintains a significant ownership interest. We have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls were not effective as of December 31, 2005. If we do not properly address identified weaknesses and implement additional controls to remedy those weaknesses, the reliability of our financial statements could be implicated and, ultimately, our financial results and our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting and their disclosure controls. To comply with this new statute, our management assessed our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls. We identified certain weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 that we have discussed in a separate report included as part of our Annual Report. Those weaknesses related to ineffective control over our account analysis for certain financial statement accounts, including accruals, long-term other assets and deferred tax assets, and our lack of sufficient internal personnel with adequate technical expertise to analyze effectively, and review in a timely manner, our accounting for revenue and income taxes. Based on those findings, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005. We also concluded that, as a result of those material weaknesses, our disclosure controls, 13 Table of Contents as of December 31, 2005, were not effective. We also identified material weaknesses in our report for 2004 that was included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004. While we were able to remediate aspects of the weaknesses we identified in 2004, there is a certain overlap in several of the weaknesses we identified in 2004 and 2005. The fact that we have not been able to remediate fully the weaknesses we identified in 2004, and that we have identified other weaknesses in 2005, may raise questions regarding our ability to implement effective internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 have required significant managerial time, and we have incurred substantial costs in undertaking those efforts. If our efforts to remedy the weaknesses we identified are not successful, the reliability of our financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our stock price and could also affect our company in other adverse ways. In addition, the ongoing costs associated with implementing such additional controls and procedures, and otherwise complying with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, are not immaterial, and while we would expect those costs to decline over the next several years they did not materially decrease from 2004 to 2005. We may be unable in the future to raise additional capital required to support our operating activities. We expect to be able to fund our capital requirements for at least the next twelve months by using existing cash balances and short-term and long-term marketable debt securities, if our assumptions about our revenues, expenses and cash commitments are generally accurate. Nevertheless, we have incurred to date and we expect that we will continue to incur in the near term significant expenses. As of December 31, 2005, we had $64.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities. We generated cash from operating activities of $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. That was a significant improvement from 2004, when we used approximately $16.2 million in cash for operating activities. While we continue to monitor our operating expenses and seek to bring them in line with our revenues, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in doing so or that we will be able to generate cash from operating activities on a consistent basis. If we are not successful in those endeavors, we might need to raise additional capital in the future. To the extent we are required to raise additional capital, we may not be able to do so at all or we may be able to do so only on unacceptable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or future prospects. We realize a percentage of our revenue from revenue sharing and subscription-based arrangements, especially in our applications business. We are not certain that those revenue models will be generally acceptable to our customers over the long-term or that they will offer us significant opportunities for revenue growth, which could adversely affect the growth opportunities for our applications business. We have historically generated a substantial portion of our revenue from one-time royalty and licensing fees related to the licensing of our middleware products and from fees for professional services that we provide. We believe that our capacity to generate future revenues in this manner may be limited, and if we are unsuccessful in evolving our revenue model, our opportunities for future revenue growth, particularly outside of the United States, may be limited. While we currently generate a moderate percentage of our revenues from revenue sharing arrangements with network operators, programmers and advertisers, and from subscriber-based arrangements, we cannot be certain that those revenue models will be accepted by our customers over the long-term, or that our customers will allow us to participate in their revenue streams on those bases. If our efforts to identify other sources of revenue, in addition to the licensing of our middleware are unsuccessful, then our future results of operations will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The market for our products and services is subject to significant competition, which could adversely affect our business. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and better recognized brand names than we do. Current and potential competitors in one or more aspects of our business include interactive technology companies, companies developing interactive television content and entertainment, and, in the professional services area, third party system integrators and internal information technology staffs at our network operator customers. Some of our customers or their affiliates offer products or services that compete with our products and services. For example, as we noted above, Double C Technologies, a joint venture between Cox and Comcast, acquired the North American assets of Liberate Technologies, which included its middleware business. In addition to our PlayJam and PlayMonteCarlo applications, BSkyB also offers its own competitive gaming and gambling applications through its broadcast network. If any of these competitors achieves significant market penetration or other significant success within the markets upon which we rely as a significant source of revenue, or in new markets that we may enter in the future, our ability to maintain market share and sustain our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. The trend of consolidation among industry participants may adversely impact our business, results of operations and future prospects. There has been a worldwide trend of consolidation in the cable, direct broadcast satellite and telecommunications industries. We believe this trend is likely to continue due to economic and competitive concerns. This trend appears to be expanding to include other companies involved with the interactive television industry. For example, in addition to the acquisition of Liberate Technologies by a joint venture between Cox and Comcast discussed above, Comcast and Gemstar-TV Guide International Inc., a media and technology company, formed a joint venture called Guideworks to develop an interactive programming guide for the cable television industry. Tandberg Television acquired Goldpocket towards the end of 2005, and Cisco Systems, Inc. acquired Scientific-Atlanta in February 2006. We expect additional consolidation to occur throughout the industry. While the full impact of this trend is uncertain at the present time, we will need to adapt to changing relationships with industry participants and address competitive concerns that may arise as companies consolidate. If we are unable to successfully manage these changing relationships and address these competitive concerns, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could affect our stock price. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful indicators of our future operating results and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the market price of our publicly-traded securities could be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and they may vary substantially in the future depending upon a number of factors described below, including many that are beyond our control. Our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including: • Changes in the rate of capital spending and the rollout of interactive television-related products and services by network operators; • The number, size and scope of network operators deploying OpenTV-enabled interactive services and the associated rollout to subscribers; • Increased competition in general and any changes in our pricing policies that may result from increased competitive pressures; • Potential downturns in our customers’ businesses or in the domestic or international markets for our products and services; 15 Table of Contents • The ability to generate applications-related revenue from existing and potential customers; • Changes in technology, whether or not developed by us; • Our ability to develop and introduce on a timely basis new or enhanced versions of our products that can compete favorably in the marketplace; and • The timing of revenue recognition associated with major licensing and services agreements. Because a high percentage of our expenses, particularly compensation, is fixed in advance of any particular quarter, any of the factors listed above could cause significant variations in our earnings on a quarter-to-quarter basis. You should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Any decline in revenues or a greater than expected loss for any quarter could cause the market price of our publicly-traded securities to decline. We depend upon key personnel, including our senior executives and technical and engineering staff, to operate our business effectively, and we may be unable to attract or retain such personnel. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our senior executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. If certain of our senior executives were to leave the company, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, we may also need to increase our technical, consulting and support staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of our existing customers. We have, in the past, experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. If we are not successful in those efforts, our business may be adversely affected. We continue to evaluate our business operations and may implement structural and other changes that affect the conduct of our worldwide business operations. As we continue to align our resources appropriately with our evolving business, we may face unintended consequences or suffer adverse effects on our operations or personnel. We review our operations on an ongoing basis with a view towards improving our business performance. We may, from time to time, initiate efforts to consolidate our operations, close and relocate various offices around the world and divest non-strategic assets. There is a risk that, as new business strategies and administrative processes are developed and implemented, the changes we adopt will be unduly disruptive or less effective than our old strategies and processes. This may adversely affect our business, results of operations and future prospects. Interactive television remains an emerging business and it may not attract widespread market acceptance or demand. Our success will depend upon, among other things, the broad acceptance of interactive television by industry participants, including operators of broadcast and pay television networks, network operators and manufacturers of televisions and set-top boxes, as well as by television viewers and advertisers. Because the market for interactive television remains an emerging market, the potential size of the market opportunity and the timing of its development are uncertain. The growth and future success of our business will depend in part upon our ability to penetrate new markets and convince network operators, television viewers and advertisers to adopt and maintain their use of our products and services. Because much of our success and value lie in our ownership and use of our intellectual property, our failure to protect our intellectual property and develop new proprietary technology may negatively affect us. Our ability to effectively conduct our business will be dependent in part upon the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights in and to our technology. We have typically entered into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, strategic partners and vendors, in an effort to control access to, and distribution of, our software, related documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be 16 Table of Contents possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software and other proprietary information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our software and proprietary information will be difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable in some instances. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries or, alternatively, such protection may be difficult to enforce. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our intellectual property rights and the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and diversion of resources, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted against us, which could have the effect of disrupting our business. We may be the subject of claims by third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property. The defense of any such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could result in the diversion of resources with respect to the defense of any claims brought, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. As a result of such infringement claims, a court could issue an injunction preventing us from distributing certain products, which could adversely affect our business. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to avoid any litigation. However, a license under such circumstances may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We grant certain indemnification rights to our customers when we license our software technologies. We may, therefore, become subject to third party infringement claims through those commercial arrangements. In addition, the damages to which we are subject may be increased by the use of our technologies in our customers’ products. Many of our and our subsidiaries’ agreements with customers contain an indemnification obligation, which could be triggered in the event that a customer is named in an infringement suit involving their products or involving the customer’s products or services that incorporate or use our products. If it is determined that our products infringe any of the asserted claims in such a suit, we may be prevented from distributing certain of our products and we may incur significant indemnification liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, while damages claims in respect of an alleged infringement may, in many cases, be based upon a presumed royalty rate that the patent holder would have otherwise been entitled to, it is possible that our liability may increase as a result of the incorporation of our technology with our customer’s products. In some cases, potential damages against us could be based on the profits derived from a product that infringes through the use of our software even though we receive a relatively moderate economic benefit from the licensing arrangement. The adoption of industry-wide standards for interactive television, such as the OpenCable initiative in North America, could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services or place downward pressure on our pricing. Ongoing efforts to establish industry-wide standards for interactive television software include a commitment by cable network operators in the United States to deploy a uniform platform for interactive television based on a jointly developed specification known as the OpenCable Applications Platform and an initiative by European television industry participants to create a similar platform called Multimedia Home Platform. The establishment of these standards or other similar standards could adversely affect the pricing of our products and services, significantly reduce the value of our intellectual property and the competitive advantage our proprietary technology provides, cause us to incur substantial expenditures to adapt our 17 Table of Contents products or services to respond to these developments, or otherwise hurt our business, particularly if our products require significant redevelopment in order to conform to the newly established standards. Our failure to participate in certain industry standards setting organizations, including CableLabs, may adversely affect our ability to sell products or services to network operators or other potential customers that are members of those organizations We have not, to date, joined CableLabs, the research and development consortium managing the OpenCable initiative, and certain other standards setting organizations. While we continually assess our position with respect to any relevant standards setting organizations, and have joined several of them, our failure to participate in certain organizations may affect the willingness of their respective members to conduct business with us. If that were the case, our ability to continue to grow our business might be adversely affected. The adoption of incompatible standards by our industry and rapid technological advances could render our products and services obsolete or non-competitive. The migration of television from analog to digital transmission, the convergence of television, the Internet, communications and other media, and other emerging trends, such as the deployment of high definition television and multicasting, are creating a dynamic and unpredictable environment in which to operate. Our ability to anticipate trends and adapt to new technologies and evolving standards is critical to our success. The deployment of new digital television applications, such as high-definition television and multicasting multiple television programs through a single channel, may compete directly with our products and services for broadcast distribution capacity. To the extent that such capacity cannot accommodate all of the applications that a cable or direct broadcast satellite system operator wants to distribute, then there is a risk that other applications will be deployed to the exclusion of our content and applications. If this occurs, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Any delay or failure on our part to respond quickly, cost-effectively and sufficiently to these developments could render our products and services obsolete or non-competitive and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we must stay abreast of cutting-edge technological developments and evolving service offerings to remain competitive and increase the utility of our services, and we must be able to incorporate new technologies into our products in order to address the increasingly complex and varied needs of our customer base. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully, and any failure to do so may adversely affect us. Government regulations may adversely affect our business. The telecommunications, media, broadcast and cable television industries are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies. These governmental agencies continue to oversee and adopt legislation and regulation over these industries, particularly in the areas of user privacy, consumer protection, the online distribution of content and the characteristics and quality of online products and services, which may affect our business, the development of our products, the decisions by market participants to adopt our products and services or the acceptance of interactive television by the marketplace in general. In particular, governmental laws or regulations restricting or burdening the exchange of personally identifiable information could delay the implementation of interactive services or create liability for us or any other manufacturer of software that facilitates information exchange. These governmental agencies may also seek to regulate interactive television directly. Future developments relating to any of these regulatory matters may adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents Changes to current accounting policies or in how such policies are interpreted or applied to our business could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business and could make it difficult for investors to assess properly our financial condition or operating results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or in how such policies are interpreted or applied to our business could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may in the future be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: • Revenue recognition; • Accounting for share-based compensation; • Accounting for income taxes; and • Accounting for business combination, related goodwill and other intangible assets. As a software company, our revenue recognition policy, in particular, is a key component of our results of operations and is based on complex rules that require us to make judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine what portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred. As a result, we may receive cash from a customer, or bill that customer, but not be able to recognize the revenue associated with that cash, or billing, for some period of time under applicable accounting rules. This results in our recording the cash as “deferred revenue” on our balance sheet. There are also complex accounting rules associated with the treatment of internal development costs, and whether those costs should be capitalized or expensed as incurred. A determination whether to capitalize or expense certain costs may materially affect our financial presentation. Because different contracts may require different accounting treatment, it may be difficult for investors to properly assess our financial condition or operating results unless they carefully review all of our financial information, including our statement of operations, our balance sheet and our statement of cash flows. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R which requires the measurement of all employer share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In April 2005, the SEC adopted a rule that amends the compliance dates of SFAS No. 123R. Under the revised compliance dates, we will be required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123R no later than the first interim period of fiscal 2006. While management continues to evaluate the impact of SFAS No. 123R on our Consolidated Financial Statements, we currently believe that the expensing of stock-based compensation will most likely affect our Consolidated Statements of Operations in a manner generally consistent with our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123, as amended. Through the use of our technology, we have the ability to collect personal and confidential information from set-top boxes. If we fail to protect this information from security breaches or misuse this information, then our operations could be disrupted and we could be subject to litigation and liability under privacy laws. Through the technology that we license for use in set-top boxes, we have the ability, when requested by our customers, to collect and store personal information from users of our applications. Subject to applicable laws, and the agreement of our customers and consumers, we may also seek to use such information to help develop addressable and targeted advertising businesses. Storage and use of such information is subject to laws and regulations and may also subject us to privacy claims relating to its use and dissemination. In addition, a third party might be able to breach our security measures and gain unauthorized access to our servers where such information is stored and misappropriate such information or cause interruptions to our business operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to monitor the laws 19 Table of Contents applicable to privacy matters, to protect against security breaches or to deal with the consequences of any breach. A breach of privacy rights by us, network operators or others could expose us to liability. Any compromise of security or misuse of private information could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition and expose us to costly litigation and regulatory action. Concerns over the security of personal information transmitted through our applications and the potential misuse of such information might also inhibit market acceptance of our applications, and if this occurs, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we continue to develop and seek to market gaming and gambling applications, we must assess the legality of these types of activities in different jurisdictions. Our inability to launch these applications legally, the uncertain regulatory landscape for these applications and the significant costs associated with ongoing evaluations regarding the state of gaming and gambling laws around the world may adversely affect our business. We develop and market gaming and gambling applications for interactive television based on technologies and know-how that we acquired through BettingCorp. In many jurisdictions throughout the world, the laws regulating gaming and gambling, particularly through media such as interactive television and the Internet, are highly uncertain and subject to frequent change. The penalties in many jurisdictions include both civil and criminal penalties. While we continually assess the laws and regulations regarding gaming and gambling ventures, and engage special outside legal counsel to assist in that process, we cannot be certain that our interpretation of, or the advice that we receive from outside professionals with respect to, those laws will necessarily be the only possible interpretation. The costs associated with that evaluative process are not, and will not be, insignificant. In the event that we are incorrect in our interpretation of certain laws or regulations, we may be subject to penalties. Moreover, we may be required to make significant changes to our business, if those laws or regulations change in ways that we do not anticipate or expect. The uncertainty inherent in these matters, the changing nature of these laws and regulations, and the significant costs associated with our ongoing evaluation of those laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business over time. If we do not believe that we can legally and effectively launch gaming and gambling applications, our future growth may be impaired. Our multinational operations expose us to special risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of management. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from customers located outside of the United States and have significant operations in a number of countries around the world. Our international operations are subject to special risks, including: • differing legal and regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • difficulties in staffing and managing offices as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; • longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political and economic instability; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our software products may contain errors, which could cause us to lose revenue and incur unexpected expenses. Software development is an inherently complex process, which frequently results in products that contain errors, as well as defective features and functions. Moreover, our technology is integrated into other products and services deployed by our network operator customers. Accordingly, a defect, error or performance problem with our technology could cause the systems of our network operator customers to fail for a period of time or to be impaired in certain respects. Any such failure could subject us to damage claims and claims for indemnification by our customers and result in severe customer relations problems and harm to our reputation. While our agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit or exclude our exposure to potential liability claims in those circumstances, those provisions may not be effective, in all respects, under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of damages in settlement or upon the determination of any of these types of claims. The interests of our majority owner may differ from yours and may result in OpenTV acting in a manner inconsistent with your general interests. Liberty Media Corporation beneficially owned Class A and Class B ordinary shares representing approximately 30.6% of the economic interest and 77.6% of the voting power of our ordinary shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005. As a result of its ownership of our ordinary shares, Liberty Media has sufficient voting power, without the vote of any other stockholder, to determine the outcome of any action presented to a vote of our stockholders, including amendments of our memorandum of association and articles of association for any purpose (which could include increasing or reducing our authorized capital or authorizing the issuance of additional shares). The interests of Liberty Media may diverge from your interests, and Liberty Media may be in a position, subject to general fiduciary obligations, to cause or require us to act in a way that is inconsistent with the general interests of the holders of our Class A ordinary shares. Because we are controlled by Liberty Media, we are exempt from certain listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market relating to corporate governance matters. Over the past several years, the National Association of Securities Dealers has adopted certain listing requirements for the Nasdaq National Market System designed to enhance corporate governance standards of the companies who are listed thereon. As a result of Liberty Media’s beneficial ownership of our Class A and Class B ordinary shares, we are not subject to some of these requirements, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors be “independent” under the guidelines established by the National Association of Securities Dealers and certain requirements regarding the determination of our Chief Executive Officer’s compensation and our director nominees. While we do not believe that our exemption from those requirements affects the manner and method by which we manage and operate the company, investors should be aware that we are not subject to those provisions and may have no obligation to comply with those requirements in the future unless our ownership profile changes. Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, you may not be able to enforce judgments against us that are obtained in United States courts. We are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or to enforce against us judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our British Virgin Islands counsel, Harney Westwood Riegels, that judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and that there is doubt as to whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. 21 Table of Contents Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, your rights as a stockholder may be less clearly established as compared to the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our stockholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of stockholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of stockholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, our stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our controlling stockholder than they would have as stockholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Certain provisions contained in our charter documents could deter a change of control of us. Certain provisions of our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our Class A ordinary shares. For example, in February 2006, we amended and restated our memorandum of association to eliminate a restriction that previously prohibited us from issuing additional super voting Class B ordinary shares. The amended and restated memorandum of association also deleted provisions that previously caused each Class B ordinary share to automatically convert into a Class A ordinary share under certain circumstances, including upon the transfer of any Class B ordinary shares to a person who was not a stockholder, or an affiliate of a stockholder, prior to our initial public offering. The comparatively low voting rights of our Class A ordinary shares as compared to our Class B ordinary shares, approximately 99.6% of which were beneficially owned by Liberty Media as of December 31, 2005, as well as other provisions of our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association, may delay, deter or prevent other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 