D. Risk Factors If you are considering purchasing our ordinary shares, preference shares or American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"), you should carefully read and think about all the information contained in this document, including the risk factors set out below, prior to making any investment decision. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the value and trading price of our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs may decline, resulting in a loss of all or a part of any investment in our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs. Furthermore, the risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk factors which are not currently known or are currently believed to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis Uncertainty resulting from the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis is having and is likely to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the financial year ended December 31, 2011, 58.3% of the Group's net interest income before provision for loan losses and as of December 31, 2011, 70.0% of our loans, were derived from our 16 Table of Contents operations in the Hellenic Republic. In addition, our holdings of EUR 7.1 billion in Greek government bonds and Greek treasury bills represented 6.8% of our total assets after the impairment due to the Hellenic Republic's debt restructuring ("PSI"), and 59.0% of our trading and investment fixed income portfolio (amounting to EUR 12.0 billion) as of December 31, 2011. Accordingly, the quality of our assets, our financial condition and our results of operations are heavily dependent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Greece. The completion of the PSI in April 2012, in conjunction with the Program for the period 2012 - 2015 (see also Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece" and Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece") is expected to provide more time for economic policy to implement fiscal adjustment efforts and growth-enhancing structural reforms. At the same time, the PSI implies a significant decline of the Greek debt burden by approximately 50% of GDP, as well as a sharp reduction in debt servicing needs through low interest rates and a substantial extension of the average debt maturity. The Program also includes a comprehensive strategy for recapitalization of the banking system following PSI-related losses and the detrimental impact of a prolonged recession on bank loan quality. However, there can be no assurance that the completion of the PSI and the implementation of the Program in accordance with its terms will obtain its stated objectives or have the anticipated effects. The Greek economy has faced and continues to face unprecedented macroeconomic headwinds originating from the still sizeable fiscal imbalances and compounded by other deep-rooted structural vulnerabilities, making the achievement of the targets posed by the Program a challenge. More specifically: •The Greek economy continues to face unprecedented macroeconomic challenges in 2012, and uncertainty remains high in the face of concerns over the Hellenic Republic's potential exit from the eurozone if the targets of the Program are not met. Poor market valuations for new Greek government bonds, aside from very limited market liquidity, reflect an embedded eurozone exit-risk premium for the country, which could take some time to subside. •The need to impose additional austerity measures to offset potential slippages in the implementation of the 2012 fiscal budget is likely to amplify recessionary pressures, reiterating the vicious cycle of weakening economic sentiment, declining liquidity and reduced private spending and the need for additional fiscal measures, which characterized the period 2010-2011. •According to the IMF, Greece has little, if any, margin to absorb additional adverse shocks or slippages in the implementation of the Program. In the event that policy implementation takes longer than expected or falls short of expectations, the economy takes longer than expected to respond to labor market and other structural competitiveness-enhancing reforms, or the fiscal impact of recession is higher than estimated, the likely result would be a higher debt trajectory than that suggested by the post-PSI analysis underlying the Program. •Failure to successfully implement the Program may lead to termination of the financial support by the IMF and the EU, which would create the conditions for a new credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic debt or lead to a default by the Hellenic Republic on its debt which would include both marketable instruments and official EU loans. •Even if the Hellenic Republic successfully implements the Program, government debt as a percentage of GDP is projected to rise to approximately 160% of GDP in 2013 and it remains uncertain whether the Greek economy will grow sufficiently to ease the financing constraints of the Hellenic Republic. These developments may result in a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic debt occurring prior to the completion of the Program. •The commitment by member states of the eurozone to provide long-term support to Greece on adequate terms is subject to significant risks related not only to Greece's ability to avoid any 17 Table of Contents additional slippages in the implementation of the Program but also to increasing discontent of public opinion in these countries regarding support to Greece. •The large losses experienced by private creditors from the PSI exchange in conjunction with the still high level of Greek sovereign debt post-PSI (above 120% of GDP until 2019) render an improvement of market sentiment and a significant upward revision of sovereign ratings of the country highly unlikely for the short to medium term. In this respect, valuations of Greek state assets (and thus privatization revenue budgeted in the Program) remain subject to substantial uncertainty. •A funding gap will emerge in the period 2015-2020, and thus the final test of the success of the Program will be whether Greece can regain market access at reasonable terms at that time. Nonetheless, in the statement of the Council of the EU ("Eurogroup") of February 21, 2012, the Eurogroup reiterated its commitment to provide adequate support to Greece during the life of the Program and beyond, until it has regained market access, provided that Greece fully complies with the requirements and objectives of the Program. For more information about the main elements of each reform and the substantial risks to the Program, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis". The uncertainty relating to the implementation of the Program and the sovereign debt reduction have directly affected the capital levels, liquidity and profitability of the financial system in the Hellenic Republic: •PSI-related losses have resulted in recapitalization needs of Greek banks, which are intended to be satisfied out of resources to be made available under the Program; •limited liquidity in the Greek banking system, reflecting an effective closing of market financing since April 2010 and a sizeable contraction of the domestic deposit base since 2010 (about 35.0% cumulatively, according to Bank of Greece data) and a heavy reliance on Eurosystem funding; and •increased competition for, and thus cost of, customer deposits. A failure of the Program to result in a marked improvement in the Greek economy would have significant adverse consequences on the Bank. After the completion of PSI, our holdings of Greek government bonds amount to EUR 4.8 billion, and we have additional exposure to Greek treasury bills of EUR 2.3 billion and other Greek government debt of EUR 8.8 billion. If another credit event with respect to the Greek government debt or an additional restructuring of Greek government debt were to occur, our regulatory capital would be severely affected due to our direct exposure to Hellenic Republic debt, requiring the Bank to raise additional capital and thus diluting existing shareholders significantly. Furthermore, there would be no assurance that the Bank could raise all of the required additional capital on acceptable terms. Similar developments could be triggered by any further significant deterioration of global economic conditions, including the credit profile of other EU countries such as Ireland, Portugal or Spain or the creditworthiness of Greek or international banks. Any of these events may give rise to concerns regarding the ability of the Hellenic Republic to meet its funding needs. These developments could: •further directly impact the carrying amount of our portfolio of Greek government debt; •severely affect our ability to raise capital and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements; and •severely limit our ability to access liquidity. 18 Table of Contents Political risks linked to the result of the parliamentary elections of May 6, 2012 create additional uncertainty about policy implementation. Political risks linked to the result of the parliamentary elections of May 6, 2012 create additional uncertainty about policy implementation (the trio of the European Commission, the IMF and the ECB (the "Troika") has already sought political assurances from large political parties to ensure continuity in policy implementation. PASOK and New Democracy—the two largest political parties in Greece for the past 30 years, and coalition partners in the government that was in power from November 2011 to the May 6, 2012 election, under prime minister Lucas Papademos, have made public commitments to the Program objectives and key policy measures on behalf of their parties, throughout and beyond any election period. Nonetheless, potential delays in the formation of a new government post election, as well as a weak parliamentary majority of the parties supporting the Program over others that are opposed to IMF/EU support could pose significant risks to the implementation of the Program. Recessionary pressures in Greece stemming from the Program have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities are dependent on the level of banking, finance and financial products and services we offer, as well as our customers' capacity to repay their liabilities. In particular, their levels of savings and credit demand are heavily dependent on customer confidence, employment trends and the availability and cost of funding. Following a cumulative output decline of 14% during the period 2009-2011, the cumulative decline in economic activity in 2012 and 2013 is likely to exceed 5.0%, according to Program estimates, taking a heavy toll on disposable income, spending and debt repayment capacity of the Greek private sector. The worsening macroeconomic conditions in the Hellenic Republic are materially adversely affecting the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our borrowers, which in turn leads to further increases in our non-accruing loan ratios, impairments on our loans and other financial assets and decreased demand for borrowings in general and increasing deposit outflows. Adding to the negative impact of a sharp drop in consumer and business confidence resulting from the economic crisis and ongoing sizeable macroeconomic imbalances, the additional fiscal adjustment agreed under the Program is likely to have a significant negative effect on economic activity in the Hellenic Republic. Loans to businesses and households are expected to decline in Greece as the sizeable downward pressure on household disposable incomes and firms' profitability from the austerity measures, as well as the resulting deterioration in the business environment against a backdrop of tighter credit criteria and stressed liquidity conditions, are likely to impair further demand for loans. In addition, the need to reduce our dependency on Eurosystem funding will also increase the likelihood of deleveraging. Moreover, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. In the context of continued market turmoil, worsening macroeconomic conditions and increasing unemployment, coupled with declining consumer spending and business investment and the worsening credit profile of our corporate and retail borrowers, the value of assets collateralizing our secured loans, including houses and other real estate, could decline significantly. Such a decline could result in impairment of the value of our loan assets or an increase in the level of non-accruing loans, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Finally, if the Program is not implemented successfully—especially with respect to the ambitious structural reform agenda—or if additional austerity measures beyond those agreed to in the Program are required to counterbalance potential deviations from the Program's targets, economic activity may register a sharper than expected drop in 2012, as it did in 2011, resulting in a further delayed recovery and a further adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with the Bank's need for additional capital and liquidity, most notably from greater-than-anticipated asset impairment, as well as a higher-than-expected deterioration in asset quality. The Bank is required by regulators in the Hellenic Republic and other countries in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital. Where it undertakes regulated activities elsewhere in the European Economic Area (the "EEA"), it will remain subject to the minimum capital requirements prescribed by regulators in the Hellenic Republic, except in jurisdictions where it has regulated subsidiaries, which will be subject to the capital requirements prescribed by local regulators. In jurisdictions where it has branches, including within the EEA, the Bank may also be subject to capital and liquidity requirements. The Bank and its regulated subsidiaries are, and its branches may be, subject to the risk of having insufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital and/or liquidity requirements. In addition, those minimum regulatory capital requirements are likely to increase in the future, the methods of calculating capital resources may change. Likewise, liquidity requirements may come under heightened scrutiny, and may place additional stress on the Bank's liquidity demands in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Bank participated in the PSI and as a result, the Group recognized impairment on its Greek government bond portfolio and loans of EUR 10.1 billion. Furthermore, as a result of economic conditions in Greece, the Bank also impaired its non-PSI exposure to the Hellenic Republic, in an amount of EUR 0.7 billion. These impairments had an adverse effect on the Bank's capital position, resulting in losses of EUR 14.5 billion. As a result, the Group's capital adequacy ratio decreased below the minimum threshold of 8% (negative 2.6%) and requested access to the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund ("HFSF"), initially receiving a commitment from the HFSF on April 19, 2012 to participate in the Group's share capital increase for EUR 6.9 billion, which raised its total capital ratio as at December 31, 2011 to 8.3% on a pro-forma basis. The Bank will need to raise its Core Tier I capital ratio (according to the European Banking Authority (the "EBA") definition) to at least 9% from September 30, 2012, and to 10% from June 30, 2013 according to the new minimum targets set by the Bank of Greece. The initial IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program introduced measures in the form of the HFSF whose role was to maintain the stability of the Greek banking system by providing capital support in the form of ordinary shares or contingent convertible securities, if a significant decline in capital buffers occurs. Under the Program, the role of the HFSF was enhanced, providing it with greater oversight capacities. The HFSF has been established under Greek Law 3864/2010 and modified by Greek Laws 3870/2010, 4021/2011, 4051/2012, 4056/2012, 4063/2012 and legislative acts dated April 19, 2012 (published in the Government Gazette Issue 94/19.04.2012) and April 30, 2012 (published in the Government Gazette Issue 103/30.04.2012). As a result of funds to be provided by the HFSF to the Bank, the HFSF may exercise significant control over the operations of the Bank and could have a material adverse effect on its profitability, capital management and financial condition. Furthermore, according to EU state aid rules and the European Commission practices, the Bank will have to develop a detailed restructuring plan or amend any such plan already submitted to the European Commission. The terms of the new capital injected by the HFSF have not yet been fully determined. However, if the Bank does not succeed in raising at least 10%, as further specified by a Ministerial Act, of its capital shortfall from the private sector, the HFSF-sourced capital will be in the form of common equity with full voting rights, resulting in the heavy dilution of existing shareholders. If the Bank 20 Table of Contents succeeds in raising the requisite private sector funds, the recapitalization will occur through common equity with restricted voting rights, which will allow the HFSF to exercise its voting rights in the general meeting of shareholders of the Bank only for resolutions regarding modifications of its Articles of Association, including: an increase or reduction of the share capital of the Bank or provision of relevant authorization to the Board of Directors of the Bank; merger, division, conversion, revival, extension of duration or dissolution of the Bank; material asset transfers, including sale of subsidiaries; or any other matters that require an increased majority, as explicitly provided in Greek Law 2190/1920 regulating Greek sociétés anonymes. Thus, if the Bank succeeds in raising the requisite private sector funds, HFSF's shares will only be taken into account for the calculation of quorum and majority percentages for the aforementioned resolutions. In addition, the terms and processes of the recapitalization expected to be announced by the new government to be formed, will determine the incentives of the private sector to participate in the capital raising of the Bank and thus may result in the Bank being capitalized through common equity shares, effectively resulting in its nationalization. As of the date of this annual report, the new government has not been formed, and therefore, no announcement has been made in respect of the recapitalization program. The Bank may need to request a further capital injection from the HFSF beyond those already identified on April 19, 2012. Such a request depends on the finalization of the estimates of the recapitalization needs, which may be reduced by the capital raising plans that the Bank has submitted to the Bank of Greece. The main risks to the Bank's recapitalization needs are: (a) the unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, which may result in lower-than-envisaged proceeds from the capital plan; (b) the poor economic environment in Greece, which may result in a sharper deterioration in asset quality than the one projected by the BlackRock loan diagnostic and weaker pre-provision profits in the domestic market; and (c) a weaker international environment, which may lead to lower-than-projected profits from our international subsidiaries. Even if the Bank initially meets the minimum capital ratio requirements, there are no assurances that the above risks will not result in subsequent shortfalls, requiring additional capital requests from the HFSF at more onerous terms. We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB and central banks for funding, which may be affected by changes in ECB and central banks rules relating to the eligibility of collateral such as Greek government bonds and guarantees. Concerns relating to the impact of the ongoing economic crisis may adversely affect the Bank's credit risk profile, delay its return to the markets for funding, increase the cost of such funding and/or trigger additional collateral requirements in repo contracts and other secured funding arrangements, including with the ECB and central banks. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access of the Bank to the capital markets for funding because of concerns by counterparty banks and other lenders, particularly for unsecured funding and funding from the short-term inter-bank market. These markets have been effectively closed to all Greek banks since the end of 2009. As a result, maturing inter-bank liabilities have not been renewed, or have been renewed only at higher costs. In addition, deposit outflows beginning in late 2009, and subsequently persisting, continue to put pressure on the liquidity position of many Greek banks. Reflecting the loss of access to market funding as well as the sharp decline in deposits, our net ECB funding and funding from other central banks has increased considerably since the start of the crisis. As at December 31, 2011, our ECB funding and funding from central banks amounted to EUR 31.3 billion (see Note 18 to the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements for the analysis of instruments pledged). 21 Table of Contents Access to ECB funding collateralized by Greek government bonds has been maintained following changes in the ECB rules. In May 2010, the ECB announced that it would suspend certain minimum credit rating requirements for Greek government bonds and would accept Greek government bonds as collateral, irrespective of their credit rating. The ECB has not yet determined the length of the period of suspension of the rating requirement. In addition, the ECB has also permitted the use of bank issued bonds, benefiting from Greek government guarantees, as eligible collateral for liquidity purposes, a rule change applying to all member countries. The liquidity we receive from the ECB may be affected by changes in ECB rules. The amount of funding available from the ECB is tied to the value of the collateral we provide, including the market value of our holdings of Greek government bonds, which itself may decline. If the value of our assets declines, then the amount of funding we can obtain from the ECB will be correspondingly limited. In addition, if the ECB were to revise its collateral standards or increase the rating requirements for collateral securities such that these instruments were not eligible to serve as collateral with the ECB, the Group's funding costs could increase and its access to liquidity could be limited. The ECB could also place time limitations on the use of government guaranteed securities as eligible collateral, and may set conditions for the continued use of liquidity under exceptional terms. Furthermore, it is unclear how long the ECB will offer unlimited access to short-term repos. In the event that these exceptional terms are terminated, or the terms on which such access is offered change in a way which materially prejudices the Bank, our access to liquidity and funding costs could be adversely affected. In addition, we use our covered bonds as collateral with the ECB. Our covered bonds may also become ineligible for use as collateral as a result of further credit ratings downgrades or changes in ECB rules currently permitting this collateral. A further downgrade or withdrawal of Greek sovereign ratings would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to access current levels of funding from the ECB or from any other source. A continued loss of deposits and the concomitant need for additional Eurosystem funding may result in the exhaustion of collateral eligible for funding from the Eurosystem. An accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits could cause an increase in our costs of funding and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity prospects. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been customer deposits. Since we rely on customer deposits for the majority of our funding, if our depositors withdraw their funds at a rate faster than the rate at which borrowers repay their loans, or if we are unable to obtain the necessary liquidity by other means, we may be unable to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring significantly higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain of our assets, or without increasing access to the ECB under its exceptional terms. As at December 31, 2011, the Group's domestic deposits excluding interbank deposits were 17.7% lower compared to December 31, 2010 and 27.1% lower compared to December 31, 2009 due to the outflow of customer deposits during 2010 and 2011. The trend of outflowing domestic deposits has continued in 2012, in line with market outflows as reported by the Bank of Greece, for the two months period to February 2012. The ongoing availability of customer deposits to fund the Bank's loan portfolio is subject to potential changes in certain factors outside the Bank's control, such as depositors' concerns relating to the economy in general, the financial services industry or the Bank specifically, significant further deterioration in economic conditions in Greece and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees. Any of these factors on their own or in combination could lead to a sustained reduction in the Bank's ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms in the future, which would impact on the Bank's ability to fund its operation and meet its minimum liquidity requirements and have an adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. Unusually high levels of withdrawals could have the result that the Bank or another member of the Group may not be in a position to continue to operate without additional funding support, which it may be unable to secure. 22 Table of Contents Funding from the ECB and central banks was limited to EUR 31.3 billion as of December 31, 2011, out of which, funding needs covered through funding from the Bank of Greece, which has less strict collateral rules, are through its Emergency Liquidity Assistance ("ELA") facility. There is doubt about Bank's ability to continue as a "going concern". Our independent auditors have added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion issued in connection with the financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively, with respect to their doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the completion of the recapitalization from the HFSF mainly due to political and macroeconomic developments in Greece. The going concern basis of the Bank is dependent on raising sufficient funds to restore the Group's and the Bank's financial position and maintain adequate levels of capital, as well as the Bank's continued ability to rely on liquidity facilities provided by the ECB and the Bank of Greece (collectively referred to as the "Eurosystem liquidity facilities"). Negative results in the Bank's stress testing may lead to further capital increases or loss of public confidence in the Bank. Stress tests analyzing the European banking sector recently have been, and we anticipate that they will continue to be, published by national and supranational regulatory authorities. At present, it is not clear how the EBA stress tests will be aligned with the requirements of the Program. In the event, a loss of confidence in the banking sector following the announcement of stress tests regarding a bank or the Greek banking system as a whole, or a market perception that any such tests are not rigorous enough also could have a negative effect on the Bank's cost of funding and may thus have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Greek banks may be required in the future to meet more stringent capital requirements regarding their Core Tier I capital ratios. If the Bank were to fail to meet any such new requirements by accessing the capital markets, we would be required to receive additional capital from the HFSF. As a result the HFSF could exercise significant control over our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, capital management and financial performance. Our wholesale borrowing costs and access to liquidity and capital have been negatively affected by a series of downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating. Since 2009, the Hellenic Republic has undergone a series of credit rating downgrades and in 2010 moved to below investment grade. The credit rating of the Hellenic Republic was lowered by all three credit rating agencies to levels just above default status following the activation of collective action clauses in Greek government bonds subject to Greek law in late February 2012. Specifically, Standard & Poor's lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to Selective Default-SD (February 27, 2012), Fitch lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to Restricted Default-RD (March 9, 2012), and Moody's lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to C (March 2, 2012). Following the conclusion of the exchange of Greek government bonds under Greek law, Fitch raised its rating to B- and Standard & Poor's raised its rating to CCC. A further downgrade of the Hellenic Republic's rating may occur in the event of a failure to implement the Program or if the Program fails to produce sufficient results. Accordingly, the cost of risk for the Hellenic Republic would increase further, with negative effects on the cost of risk for Greek banks and thereby on their results. Further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic could result in a corresponding downgrade in the Bank's credit rating. 23 Table of Contents Deteriorating asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions may adversely affect our future earnings through a negative impact on our trading income as well as the recovery value of collateral. An increase in financial market volatility or adverse changes in the liquidity of our assets could impair our ability to value certain of our assets and exposures. The value ultimately realized by us will depend on their fair value determined at that time and may be materially different from their current value. Any decrease in the value of such assets and exposures could require us to realize additional impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our capital. The global economic slowdown and economic crisis in Greece from 2009 to 2012 have resulted in an increase in non-accruing loans and significant changes in the fair values of our credit exposures. A substantial portion of our loans to corporate and individual borrowers are secured by collateral such as real estate, securities, vessels, term deposits and receivables. In particular, as mortgage loans are one of our principal assets, we are currently highly exposed to developments in real estate markets, especially in Greece. From 2002 to 2007, demand for housing and mortgage financing in Greece increased, significantly driven by, among other things, economic growth, declining unemployment rates, demographic and social trends, the desirability of Greece as a vacation destination and historically low interest rates in the eurozone. During late 2007, the housing market began to adjust in Greece as a result of excess supply and higher interest rates. In 2008 economic growth came to a halt and since 2009 economic activity has contracted at an accelerating pace. As a result, home prices began to decline, with home prices in March 2012 approximately 20% below their third quarter 2008 peak. The sharp increase in unemployment during the economic crisis, which in early 2012 exceeded 21% (compared with 7.2% in September 2008), aggravated the situation, with mortgage delinquencies increasing. A continued decline in the Greek economy, or a deterioration of economic conditions in any industries in which our borrowers operate or in any other markets in which the collateral is located, may result in the value of collateral securing the loans falling to below the outstanding principal balance on some loans, particularly those disbursed in the few years prior to the crisis. A decline in the value of collateral securing these loans, or our inability to obtain additional collateral, may require us to establish additional allowance for loan losses. In addition, our failure to recover the expected value of collateral in the case of foreclosure, or our inability to initiate foreclosure proceedings due to domestic legislation, may expose us to losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, since July 1, 2010, Greek legislation forbids auctions initiated by credit institutions for satisfaction of claims not exceeding EUR 200,000. Greek Law 4047/2012 currently prohibits an auction process for such claims until December 31, 2012, and this period could be further extended. As at December 31, 2011, outstanding balances that could be subject to this law were EUR 365.7 million. The Bank does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders. Under Greek Law 3723/2008, in conjunction with Greek Laws 4063/2012, 3965/2011, 3844/2010 and 3756/2009, we will not pay any cash dividends to our ordinary shareholders in 2012 in respect of the 2011 financial year, and did not do so in 2011 in respect of the 2010 financial year or in 2010 in respect of the 2009 financial year. In general, as a result of our participation in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, our dividends are subject to a maximum of 35% of the Bank's distributable profits (on an unconsolidated basis) for as long as the Bank participates in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, and any decisions regarding distribution of dividends and remuneration can be vetoed by the Hellenic Republic representative who sits on our Board of Directors. In June 2008, we issued 25 million non-cumulative, non-voting redeemable preference shares at an issue price of USD 625 million. If the Bank has sufficient distributable funds, each preference share is 24 Table of Contents entitled to USD 2.25 per share dividend per annum paid in cash. We have not paid any dividends on our preference shares since March 2011. Similarly, in the case of an issuance of capital from the HFSF, the HFSF's representative (who would sit on our Board of Directors) would have the power to veto any distribution of dividends, and our dividends would also be subject to a maximum of 35% of the Bank's distributable profits, according to Greek Law 3864/2010, as currently in force. Our participation in Pillar I of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan has also resulted in the issuance of fixed return preference shares to the Hellenic Republic (EUR 350 million in January 2009 and EUR 1,000 million in December 2011). Payments of dividends on the aforementioned redeemable preference shares and payments of the fixed return for the preference shares issued pursuant to the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan take preference over distributable profits otherwise available to our ordinary shareholders. No dividend will be paid to holders of U.S. preferred securities or to the Hellenic Republic as holder of preference shares in 2012 for the 2011 financial year in accordance with the Bank's Articles of Association, Greek Law 4063/2012 and the provisions of article 44a in combination with articles 42c and 43 of the Greek Companies Act, which prohibit the payment of dividends in the absence of sufficient distributable funds (see Item 8.A, "Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Policy on Dividend Distributions"). Risks Relating to Volatility in the Global Financial Markets We are vulnerable to the ongoing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. Global economic growth maintains a steady, albeit weaker than normal, pace. Nonetheless, most of the economies with which Greece has strong export links, including a number of euro area economies, continue to face significant economic headwinds. Activity remains dependent on highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and is subject to downside risks, as room for countercyclical policy measures has sharply diminished and fiscal fragilities have come to the fore. Policymakers in many advanced economies have publicly acknowledged the need to urgently adopt credible strategies to contain public debt and excessive fiscal deficits and later bring them down to more sustainable levels. The implementation of these policies may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In financial markets, concerns surfaced in a progressive widening of intra-eurozone government bond and sovereign credit default swap ("CDS") spreads for several eurozone issuers with large fiscal imbalances. Against a background of increasing unease over the macrofinancial implications of sizeable fiscal imbalances, investors have reduced their investment in these countries. Continued reduction in investment flows may retard economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our ability to fund our operations. Results of operations, both in Greece and our international operations, in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including: political and regulatory risks and the condition of public finances; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values; the availability and cost of credit; inflation, the stability and solvency of financial institutions and other companies; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these factors. We are exposed to risks potentially faced by other financial institutions. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Sovereign credit pressures may weigh on Greek financial institutions, limiting their funding operations 25 Table of Contents and weakening their capital adequacy by reducing the market value of their sovereign and other fixed income holdings. These liquidity concerns have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, inter-institutional financial transactions in general. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient for us to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital position. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in the Hellenic Republic is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB"), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in the Hellenic Republic, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Greek authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in the Hellenic Republic, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of the Hellenic Republic have identified deficiencies in those firms" audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in the Hellenic Republic makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Risks Relating to Our Operations Outside of the Hellenic Republic Our Turkish operations make a significant contribution to our net profit, and operating in Turkey carries certain macroeconomic and political risks. Turkish operations through Finansbank, our Turkish subsidiary, represented 19.4% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2011 compared to 18.9% as at December 31, 2010 and accounted for 30.3% net interest income before provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 31.9% for the year ended December 31, 2010. As a result, the Group is subject to operating risks in Turkey, including the following: •Turkey is a parliamentary democracy and, although stable, it is not free from political instability and domestic terrorist acts. •Military operations in the Middle East and elsewhere have increased the political and economic risks in the region. The current security situation in the Middle East may contribute to further tension. These risks may have an impact on the Turkish economy and consequently, on the Group's operations in Turkey. •Since the early 1980s, the Turkish economy has undergone a transformation from a highly protected state-directed system to a more free market economy, experiencing a general growth trend from 1992 to 2007. However, the Turkish economy has experienced a succession of financial crises, most notably in 2000 and 2001, as well as macroeconomic imbalances, including substantial budget deficits, significant balance of payments deficits, high inflation rates and high real interest rates. Turkey's economy is exposed to the effects of the continuing global credit 26 Table of Contents difficulties, having experienced four successive quarters of deep recession between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the third quarter of 2009 before Turkey's GDP subsequently grew again, by 9.2% in 2010, and 8.5% in 2011. Nevertheless, Turkey may face more financial crises, which could have an adverse effect on Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. •Turkey remains dependent on external financing, and its economy is highly exposed to a turnaround in global activity and investor sentiment. Turkey's current account deficit is expected by the IMF to ease to 7.4% of GDP in 2012, mainly due to a marked slowdown in domestic demand. This much-needed adjustment is, however, at risk in view of the ongoing rise in oil prices. In view of the fact that the bulk of the current account deficit continues to hinge on large portfolio inflows and a drawdown of bank and non-bank residents' assets abroad, Turkish assets will continue to be vulnerable to sudden shifts in global investor sentiment. As a result, there can be no assurance that Turkey will not experience volatility in domestic financial markets, and the likelihood of such volatility would increase with disruptions in global market activity and investor sentiment. Any such volatility would have a negative impact on Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. •Historically, the Turkish currency has been subject to significant volatility against the euro and other currencies. For example, the TL depreciated by 16.7% against the euro and by 18.9% against the U.S. dollar between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011. Since the acquisition of Finansbank by the Group on August 18, 2006 until December 31, 2011, the TL depreciated by 25.1% against the euro and by 24.9% against the U.S. dollar. The TL appreciated by 6.1% against the euro and by 8.7% against the U.S. dollar between December 31, 2011 and April 30, 2012. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the value of the Bank's investment in Finansbank and on the Group's overall profitability. The Group has taken steps in the past to reduce its exposure to TL exchange rate fluctuations and intends to continue implementing such initiatives; however, such protection may not be available on as favorable terms as have been available in the past or at all and may not provide a sufficient hedge against such fluctuations. •The Group believes the general level of macroeconomic and political risk to be higher in Turkey than in a number of countries whose economies and banking markets are more developed and that are already members of the EU, but the risk levels are converging. While the Group believes there is potential for substantial growth in the Turkish banking market, growth may not occur, or Finansbank may be unable to benefit from that growth. Adverse macroeconomic and political events, that limit economic growth in Turkey or restrict the growth of the banking market may adversely affect Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, various new laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed in Turkey, that affect the Group's business in Turkey. In 2011, the Turkish central bank continued its policy of non-remuneration for reserve requirements and increased the weighted average required reserve ratio for TL denominated to 13.5% within the course of the year, before lowering it to 11%. The Turkish central bank also allowed the banking sector to hold up to 40% of TL denominated required reserves in foreign currencies and up to 10% of TL denominated required reserves in gold accounts. Any failure by Finansbank to adopt adequate responses to these or other future changes in the regulatory framework could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. At the time of our share capital increase in September 2010, we announced plans to dispose of a minority interest in Finansbank through an offering that may comprise both primary and secondary shares. We currently intend to complete this offering when market conditions are favorable; however, our decision to proceed with the offering and its timing are subject to various considerations, including 27 Table of Contents market conditions, offer size and structure and obtaining all necessary regulatory and other approvals. A reduction in our level of ownership in Finansbank would result in a reduction in the level of Finansbank's contribution to the Group's net income/loss going forward. Any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations may lead to an accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits and could cause an increase in our costs of funding. Historically, Finansbank's principal sources of funds have included individual deposits. All of Finansbank's individual deposits are effectively short-term deposits (the average maturity of individual deposits in 2011 was approximately 59 days), which could expose Finansbank to liquidity risks if retail customers were to withdraw large amounts of their deposits or do not roll over their term deposits upon maturity. Although customer deposits have increased rapidly in 2011 (23.4% year-on-year in TL terms), any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations could significantly increase the amount of individual deposit withdrawals in a short space of time or result in higher interest rates on individual deposits, which could significantly increase Finansbank's cost of funding. Finansbank also relies heavily upon other types of short-term liabilities in addition to individual deposits for its funding. As at December 31, 2011, 96% of Finansbank's other borrowed funds and long-term debt had maturity of less than one year. Given such reliance upon short-term liquidity, there can be no assurance that, in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system or otherwise, Finansbank will be able to maintain its levels of funding and at commercially reasonable terms. A deterioration of the credit quality of Finansbank's loans could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. The 2009 economic downturn had an adverse effect on the financial condition of some of Finansbank's corporate and retail customers and, in some instances, ultimately affected their ability to service and repay their obligations. This has led to an increase in Finansbank's impaired loans that are more than 90 days past due ("dpd"), accompanied by increased allowance for loan losses. During 2010 and 2011, with output growing strongly, credit quality and recoveries improved markedly. However, over time, Finansbank has increased its exposure to retail customers, whose loans generally yield higher interest income but also tend to have higher levels of default than loans of corporate customers. There can be no assurance that continued weakness in consumer spending, high unemployment, decreased profitability of corporate businesses, increasing numbers of insolvencies and/or deterioration of the credit quality of corporate customers will not result in continued increases in the levels of Finansbank's impaired loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. A reduction in Finansbank's current long-term credit ratings may increase Finansbank's funding costs. Finansbank engages in limited international capital market transactions for funding purposes. Although no specific trigger exists relating to a credit rating downgrade in any one of the outstanding agreements, a reduction in the current long-term credit ratings of Finansbank or any of its principal subsidiaries may increase Finansbank's or that subsidiary's funding costs, limit access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in secured funding arrangements when they are renewed. In addition, any further deterioration in NBG's credit rating or any decrease in Turkey's sovereign credit rating could affect Finansbank's ability to obtain financing in international capital markets. Any reduction or deterioration in Finansbank's credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the competitive environment in Turkey may adversely affect Finansbank's business. The Turkish banking sector is highly competitive and has in recent years undergone a period of consolidation. As at December 31, 2011, there were a total of 44 banks (excluding the Turkish central bank and four "participation banks" (i.e. interest-free banking institutions)) licensed to operate in 28 Table of Contents Turkey. A small number of these banks have a significant presence in the industry. The intense competition may increase the pressure for Finansbank to expand the range and sophistication of its products and services it offers, as well as to reduce its margins. Increased pricing competition in the Turkish banking markets may also impact customer behavior patterns and loyalty. In addition, state-owned banks in Turkey historically have had access to inexpensive funding in the form of significant Turkish government deposits, which has provided a competitive advantage over private banks. Any failure to maintain customer loyalty or to offer customers a wide range of competitive products could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. We conduct significant international activities in SEE operations, which carries certain political, governmental or macroeconomic risks. Apart from our operations in the Hellenic Republic and Turkey, we have built up substantial operations in Bulgaria, Romania, Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia ("FYROM"), Serbia and other developing economies. The Group's SEE operations accounted for 10.4% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2011 compared to 10.7% as at December 31, 2010 and 11.1% of our net interest income before provisions for loan losses at and for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 11.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our SEE operations are exposed to the risk of adverse political, governmental or economic developments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, most of the countries outside the Hellenic Republic in which we operate are emerging markets in which we face particular operating risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our SEE operations also expose us to foreign currency risk. A decline in the value of the currencies in which our SEE subsidiaries receive their income or hold their assets relative to the value of the Euro may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The economic crisis in Greece may: •materially adversely affect the operations of our SEE subsidiaries and Turkey; •increase depositors' concerns in these countries regarding the creditworthiness of the Hellenic Republic and the Bank, which may, in turn, affect their willingness to continue to do business with our international subsidiaries; and •result in local governmental intervention. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We maintain trading and investment positions in debt, currency, equity and other markets. These positions could be adversely affected by continuing volatility in financial and other markets and the Greek sovereign debt crisis, creating a risk of substantial losses. Significant decline in perceived or actual values of the Group's assets has resulted from previous market events. Continuing volatility and further dislocation affecting certain financial markets and asset classes could further impact the Group's results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In the future these factors could have an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in the Group's AFS, trading portfolios and financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected. In addition, any further deterioration in the performance of the assets in the Group's AFS and HTM portfolios could lead to additional other-than-temporary impairment losses, including on holdings of Greek government bonds. The AFS and HTM portfolios accounted for 9.3% of the Group's total assets as at December 31, 2011. Volatility can also lead to losses relating to a broad range of other trading securities and derivatives held, including swaps, futures, options and structured products. For further information on market risk exposures in those portfolios, you should refer to Item 11, "Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk". 29 Table of Contents The increase of non-accruing loans may have a negative impact on our operations in the future. Non-accruing loans represented 15.1% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (compared to 8.1% as at December 31, 2010), while the same ratio for our Greek operations was 16.7% (see Item 4.E, "Selected Statistical Data—Credit Quality—Non-accruing Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Loan Loss Experience" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations—Non-accruing Loans and Write-offs"). The effect of the economic crisis in Greece and adverse macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate may result in further adverse effects on the credit quality of our borrowers, with increasing delinquencies and defaults. In accordance with Greek Law 3869/2010, debtors that are individuals and cannot be declared bankrupt and who are in a state of permanent inability to pay their debts not attributable to willful misconduct, have the ability to adjust their debts and may be released from a portion of such debts through filing of an application to the competent court (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). In order for an individual to apply to the courts under this law, the applicant is required to follow a lengthy procedure, which we believe is the principal reason why, as at December 31, 2010, no customer had applied to the courts under this law, and as at December 31, 2011, 5,930 customers, with combined outstanding balances of EUR 286 million, had applied to the court under the provisions of Greek Law 3869/2010. In addition, collateral collections are more difficult in a period of economic recession and in view of existing legislation relating to the valuation of collateral in enforcement proceedings. Moreover, as a result of the financial crisis, and for the protection of the weaker debtors, auctions have been suspended until December 31, 2012, in cases where the outstanding balance does not exceed EUR 200,000 (pursuant to legislative act dated December 12, 2011, having been ratified by Greek Law 3949/2011 (See "—Applicable bankruptcy laws and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to obtain payments on defaulted credit—"). As at December 31, 2010 and 2011, outstanding balances that could be subject to the abovementioned Act were EUR 121.4 million and EUR 365.7 million, respectively. Future provisions for non-accruing loans could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. There can be no assurance that further events will not alter the interest rate environment in Greece and the other markets in which the Group operates. Cost of funding is especially at risk for the Bank in view of increased Eurosystem funding and the tight liquidity conditions in the domestic deposit market. As with any bank, changes in market interest rates affect the interest rates we charge on our interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could reduce our net interest income before provisions for loan losses. Since the majority of our loan portfolio effectively re-prices within a year, rising interest rates may also result in an increase in our allowance for loan losses if customers cannot refinance in a higher interest rate environment. Further, an increase in interest rates may reduce our clients' capacity to repay in the current economic circumstances. We face significant competition from Greek and foreign banks. The general scarcity of wholesale funding since the onset of the economic crisis has led to a significant increase in competition for retail deposits in Greece. We also face competition from foreign banks, some of which may have resources greater than our own. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with domestic and international banks in the future. These competitive pressures on the Group may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Applicable bankruptcy laws and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to obtain payments on defaulted credits. Bankruptcy laws (Greek Law 3869/2010) and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights vary significantly within the region that the Group operates in. In some countries, the laws offer significantly less protection for creditors than the bankruptcy regimes in Western Europe and the United States. If the current economic downturn persists or worsens, bankruptcies could intensify, or applicable bankruptcy protection laws and regulations may change to limit the impact of the recession on corporate and retail borrowers. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in consumer protection laws might limit the fees that the Group may charge in certain banking transactions. Changes in consumer protection laws in Greece, Turkey and/or other jurisdictions where the Group has operations could limit the fees that banks may charge for certain products and services such as mortgages, unsecured loans and credit cards. If introduced, such laws could reduce the Group's net income, though the amount of any such reduction cannot be estimated at this time. There can be no assurance that such effects will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to increasingly complex regulation which may increase our regulatory and capital requirements. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each jurisdiction in which it operates. All of these regulatory requirements are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions. In response to the global financial crisis, national governments as well as supranational groups, such as the EU, have been considering significant changes to current regulatory frameworks, including those pertaining to capital adequacy, liquidity and scope of banks' operations. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of our participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives, such as the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan), we may face greater regulation in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE. Current and future regulatory requirements may be different across each of these locations and even requirements with EEA-wide application may be implemented or applied differently in different jurisdictions. Compliance with these new requirements may increase our regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and costs, heighten disclosure requirements, restrict certain types of transactions, affect our strategy and limit or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loan and other products, any of which could lower the return on the Group's investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The new regulatory framework may have significant scope and may have unintended consequences for the global financial system, the Greek financial system or our business, including reducing competition, increasing general uncertainty in the markets or favoring or disfavoring certain lines of business. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes on our business, financial condition, cash flows or future prospects. 31 Table of Contents Regulation of the banking industry in the Hellenic Republic has changed in recent years largely as a result of Greece's implementation of applicable EU directives and in response to the economic crisis in the Hellenic Republic. In this context: •On February 29, 2012, the Bank of Greece issued Governor's Act 2654 regarding capital adequacy. The Act is in line with the Program as amended on February 9, 2012 and sets a Core Tier I minimum target of 9% beginning on September 30, 2012 and a 10% Core Tier I minimum target beginning on June 30, 2013, under the EBA definition of core capital which includes preference shares issued under the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan. •In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee"), issued two prudential framework documents ("Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems", December 2010 and "Basel III: International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring", December 2010) which contain the capital and liquidity reform package ("Basel III"). The so called Basel III documents were revised in June 2011. The main elements of Basel III are summarized as follows: –revision of the regulatory capital definition and its components, setting higher minimum levels for the Common Equity Tier I and Tier I capital adequacy ratios; –introduction of capital conservation buffer of 2.5% in addition to the minimum Common Equity Tier I and Tier I capital adequacy ratios with certain limitations on dividends, distributions on capital instruments and compensation; –enhancement of risk coverage of the capital requirements framework especially regarding derivatives and other off balance sheet items (counterparty credit risk), the exposures to central counterparties (CCPs) and the values of the risk parameters under stress conditions (market, credit and counterparty credit risk); –supplementation of risk based capital requirements with a leverage ratio; –promotion of stronger provisioning practices mainly by moving towards a forward looking (Expected Loss) provisioning approach; and –introduction of global common liquidity measurement standards subject banks to minimum quantitative requirements for liquidity and increased risk weightings for "illiquid" assets. The Basel III proposals have been assessed at EU level. The European Commission has published several consultation and other policy documents indicating its intention to implement the Basel III standards throughout the EEA by way of further changes to the Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC and/or additional regulations. The final legislative proposals were published on July 20, 2011 (CRD 4). Commission's aim is to create for the first time a single set of harmonized prudential rules which Banks throughout the EU must respect. Commission's proposal follows the timelines as agreed in the Basel Committee: entry into force of the mew legislation on January 1, 2013 and full implementation on January 1, 2019. The Solvency II Directive (Directive 2009/138/EC), adopted by the European Parliament on April 22, 2009 and endorsed by the Council of Ministers on May 5, 2009, is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry. When implemented (expected to be on January 1, 2014) the capital structure and overall governance of the Group's life assurance business will change significantly, and this may have an impact on the capital structure of the Group. Finansbank is subject to a number of banking and other regulations in Turkey, in particular those of the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency of Turkey ("BRSA"). Banking regulations in Turkey are evolving in parallel to the global changes and international regulatory environment. The Turkish regulator has announced a roadmap for Basel II implementation starting from June 2011. Banks in 32 Table of Contents Turkey report their results according to both Basel I and Basel II, and after June 2012 only Basel II will be used. The loss of senior management may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. Our current senior management team includes a number of executives that we believe contribute significant experience and expertise to our management in the banking sectors in which we operate. The continued success of our business and our ability to execute our business strategy will depend, in large part, on the efforts of our senior management. For instance, a change of government in the Hellenic Republic could lead to the departure of certain senior managers. If a substantial portion of our senior management leaves us, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to recruit or retain experienced and/or qualified personnel. Our competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified and experienced banking and management personnel. Competition in the Greek and other SEE banking industries for personnel with relevant expertise is intense due to the relatively limited availability of qualified individuals. To recruit qualified and experienced employees and to minimize the possibility of their departure, we provide compensation packages consistent with evolving standards in the relevant labor markets. Under the terms of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, as currently applicable, the Bank is prohibited from paying bonuses to the members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and any general managers or their substitutes. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis and regulatory restrictions on bonus payments, we are limiting or restricting the bonuses we pay our personnel, which may inhibit the retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel. However, inability to recruit and retain qualified and experienced personnel in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE, or manage our current personnel successfully, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. This risk has increased in view of the current economic situation in Greece. We could be exposed to significant future pension and post-employment benefit liabilities. Like other large companies in the Hellenic Republic that are, or were, in the public sector, the employees of the Bank and certain of our subsidiaries participate in employee-managed pension schemes. The Bank and certain of our subsidiaries make significant contributions to these schemes. In addition, the Bank and several of our subsidiaries offer other post-employment benefit plans, including medical benefit plans. Our consolidated net liability under these plans as of December 31, 2011 was EUR 224.7 million, determined by reference to a number of critical assumptions. These include assumptions about movements in interest rates which may not be realized. Such variation may cause us to incur significantly increased liability in respect of these obligations. For more information on our current obligations under pension plans and the assumptions by reference to which they are determined, please refer to Note 38 to the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements. In accordance with Greek Law 3655/2008, applicable from April 2008, the Bank's main pension plan and the main pension branch of Ethniki Hellenic General Insurance S.A.'s ("EH") post-employment and health plan, both of which are defined-contribution plans, have been incorporated into the main pension branch of the state-sponsored social security fund ("IKA - ETAM"). Pursuant to this legislation, the Bank will contribute into IKA - ETAM EUR 25.5 million per year for 15 years starting from December 2009. In addition, in 2005 and 2006, the Hellenic Republic passed legislation permitting bank employee auxiliary pension schemes to merge with the new Insurance Fund of Bank Employees ("ETAT"). The relevant legislation provides that, in connection with the merger of auxiliary schemes with ETAT, the relevant employer shall make a payment to ETAT solely in an amount to be determined by an 33 Table of Contents independent financial report commissioned by the Ministry of Finance pursuant to this legislation. Subsequently, in April 2006 the Bank applied under Greek Law 3371/2005, as amended, to merge its Auxiliary Pension Fund into ETAT. Consequently, the Bank may have to contribute a significant amount to ETAT in relation to this merger. In addition, Greek Law 3863/2010 amended substantially the structure and operation of the Greek pensions system. These developments, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and any future legislation regarding pensions and pension liabilities or other post-employment benefit obligations, including those under the Program may increase the liability of the Bank or its subsidiaries with respect to pension and other post-employment benefit plan contributions to cover actuarial or operating deficits of those plans. The Greek banking sector is subject to strikes which may adversely affect the Group's operations. Most of the Bank's employees belong to a union and the Greek banking industry has been subject to strikes over the issues of pensions and wages. Bank employees throughout the Hellenic Republic went on strike for 14 days in 2011. In 2012, Bank employees have gone on strike four days (through April 30, 2012), largely to express their opposition to the new austerity measures implemented in light of the Program. Greek bank unions in general participate in general strikes which have increased. Prolonged labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations in the Hellenic Republic, either directly or indirectly, for example on the willingness or ability of the government to pass the reforms necessary to successfully implement the Program. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgments and estimates that may change over time or may not be accurate. In establishing the fair value of certain financial instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilize observable financial market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilized by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in financial market conditions. In such circumstances, the Group's internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgments and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgments and estimates the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows. Such assumptions, judgments and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Group's earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the Group's financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. We are exposed to credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. As a result of our activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. Among the most significant of these risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. Failure to control these risks could result in material adverse effects on our financial performance and reputation. Credit Risk. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss relating to the failure of a borrower to honor its contractual obligations. It arises in lending activities as well as in various other activities where we are exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as our trading, capital markets and settlement 34 Table of Contents activities. The risk of counterparty default is the largest single risk we face. Credit risk has increased significantly since September 2007. Market Risk. Market risk is due to the uncertainty arising out of volatility in market prices and rates (including interest rates, equity and bond prices and foreign exchange rates). Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect our net interest margin. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets or financial conditions generally may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. We have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which our portfolios are also exposed (see Item 11 "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk"). However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our financial performance and business operations. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is defined as the current or prospective risk to earnings and capital arising from the an entity's inability to meet its liabilities when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. It reflects the potential mismatch of payment obligations to incoming payments, taking into account unexpected delays in repayments (term liquidity risk) or unexpectedly high payment outflows (withdrawal/call risk). Liquidity risk involves both the risk of unexpected increases in the cost of funding a portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner on reasonable terms. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access to markets for the Bank, which currently relies almost entirely on the ECB and central banks (see "—Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis—We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB and central banks for funding and liquidity, which may be affected by changes in ECB and central banks rules relating to the eligibility of collateral such as Greek government bonds and guarantees", Item 5.B "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Item 11"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk"). Operational Risk. Operational risk corresponds to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether deliberate, accidental or natural occurrences. Internal events include, but are not limited to, fraud by employees, clerical and record keeping errors and information systems malfunctions or manipulations. External events include floods, fires, earthquakes, riots or terrorist attacks, fraud by outsiders and equipment failures. Finally, we may also fail to comply with regulatory requirements or conduct of business rules. Insurance Risk. The principal risk that the Group may face under its insurance policies is that the actual claims and benefit payments, or the timing thereof, differ from expectations. This could occur because the frequency or severity of claims is greater than estimated. Depending on the insurance product, this risk is influenced by macroeconomic changes, changes in customer behavior, changes in public health, pandemics and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, industrial disasters, fires, riots or terrorism. Although the Bank believes that its risk management and risk mitigation policies are adequate, our risk management processes may not prevent all instances of fraud. In addition, continuing volatility as a result of market forces out of our control could cause the Bank's liquidity position to deteriorate. Such deterioration would increase funding costs and limit the Bank's capacity to increase its credit portfolio and the total amount of its assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents We may not successfully complete all elements of our capital plan. We plan to limit our dependence on official support through the implementation of a capital plan already submitted to the Bank of Greece, for their approval. This capital plan includes a disposal of a minority stake in our subsidiary Finansbank, of which we own 94.81%, through an offering that may comprise both primary and secondary shares. We currently intend to complete this offering when market conditions are favorable; however, our decision to proceed with the offering and its timing are subject to various considerations, including market conditions, offer size and structure and obtaining all necessary regulatory and other approvals. NBG intends to retain a majority equity stake in Finansbank of at least 75%. In addition, we are considering the sale of a minority stake in a new subsidiary, currently in the process of being formed, to which we will transfer our SEE banking subsidiaries. Our decision to proceed with these offerings, as well as their related timing, are subject to various considerations, including market conditions, offer size and structure and our obtaining all necessary regulatory and other approvals. Further capital could be raised from the sale of non-core assets, which may include the Astir Palace Hotel, the bancassurance business in Turkey, as well as further initiatives in the area of asset and liability management. The successful implementation of these transactions is subject to market conditions. Should market unfavorable market conditions prevail, the completion of the capital plan could be delayed, may fail to achieve its objectives or may not be consummated. Our economic hedging may not prevent losses. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we use to economically hedge our exposure to market risk is not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. Unexpected market developments therefore may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Moreover, we do not economically hedge all of our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we are exposed to TL fluctuations and do not always economically hedge this exposure. Finally, the methodology by which certain risks are economically hedged may not qualify for hedge accounting, which may result in additional volatility in the Group's income statement. We have not hedged the sovereign credit risk of the Hellenic Republic. The Bank's operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, vulnerable to an increasing risk of continually evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks which could result in the disclosure of confidential client or customer information, damage to the Bank's reputation, additional costs to the Bank, regulatory penalties and financial losses. A significant portion of the Bank's operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. The Bank stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. These activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber attacks, the nature of which is continually evolving. The Bank's computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to the Bank's reputation with 36 Table of Contents its clients and the market, additional costs to the Bank (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both the Bank and its clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Bank (such as the lack of availability of the Bank's online banking system), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given the volume of transactions at the Bank, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. In addition, third parties with which the Bank does business under stringent contractual agreements, may also be sources of cyber security or other technological risks. The Bank outsources a limited number of supporting functions, such as printing of customer credit card statements, which results in the storage and processing of customer information. Although the Bank adopts a range of actions to eliminate the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as not allowing third-party access to the production systems and operating a highly controlled IT environment, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents could occur, resulting in similar costs and consequences to the Bank as those discussed above. While the Bank maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks such as fraud and financial crime, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. The Hellenic Republic and state-related entities may have an important influence on the Bank. In 2008, the Greek Parliament approved the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, in response to the difficult funding conditions in 2008. The Greek Parliament originally approved for EUR 28 billion in 2008 and augmented the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan by EUR 40 billion in 2010 and another EUR 30 billion in 2011. The Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, as amended, comprised three tranches or pillars: •Pillar I: up to EUR 5 billion in preference share capital designed to increase Tier I ratios of participating banks, see Item 5.B, "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Under the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan"; •Pillar II: up to EUR 85 billion in Hellenic Republic guarantees for short-term borrowings of participating banks (originally only EUR 15 billion); and •Pillar III: up to EUR 8 billion in short-term debt floating rate notes issued to the participating banks by the Public Debt Management Agency. As at April 27, 2012, the Hellenic Republic directly owns all 270 million non transferable redeemable preference shares issued by NBG under the capital facility of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan. This direct stake in NBG provides the Hellenic Republic with voting rights at the general meeting of preferred shareholders and requires the participation on the Board of Directors of NBG of a Government appointed representative, who attends the General Meeting. In certain circumstances, this representative has the ability to veto actions relating to strategic issues or decisions for which the General Meeting is otherwise competent, such as the distribution of dividends and the remuneration of NBG's directors and senior management. By its letter dated October 11, 2010 regarding NBG's rights offering initiated by the September 10, 2010 decision of its Board of Directors, the Hellenic Republic exercised in full its pre-emptive right arising from its holding of preference shares to subscribe for new shares and convertible equity notes that would not be subscribed for by holders of rights and their transferees, equal to approximately 10.3%. Consequently, the Hellenic Republic directly holds 1.23% of the Bank's ordinary shares. (see Item 4.B, "Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan"). NBG also participates in the Pillar II and Pillar III of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan. 37 Table of Contents In addition, the Hellenic Republic may exercise a degree of indirect influence on us, through certain state-related entities (primarily pension funds, most of whose boards of directors are appointed by the Hellenic Republic). As of December 31, 2011, various domestic pension funds owned approximately 16.4% of our share capital, and other domestic public sector related legal entities and the Church of Greece owned approximately 7.5% of our share capital. If there is not a full voting participation by all of our other shareholders at a given shareholders' meeting, these state-related entities, despite holding a non-controlling level of our total shares, may have a voting majority at such meeting (see Item 7.A, "—Major Shareholders—State Interests"). There is a risk that the Hellenic Republic might seek to exert influence over the Group and may disagree with certain decisions of the Bank and the Group relating to dividend distributions, benefits policies and other commercial and management decisions which may ultimately limit the operational flexibility of the Group. If economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate, or if the financial position of the Group deteriorates, further government or inter-governmental intervention may take place in addition to the amounts already contemplated through the HFSF. Any further government or inter-governmental intervention, including through the HFSF, may have a material adverse effect on the interests of other holders of our securities, results of operations and financial condition. Capital shares issued under the HFSF will provide it with significant management powers (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). Furthermore, the Hellenic Republic also has interests in other Greek financial institutions and an interest in the health of the Greek banking industry and other industries generally, and those interests may not always be aligned with the commercial interests of the Group or its shareholders. An action supported by the Hellenic Republic may not be in the best interests of the Group or its shareholders generally. Our loan portfolio may continue to contract. In the current economic environment, our Greek loan portfolio may continue to decline, and our foreign loan portfolio may not grow at historic rates or may even decline. Furthermore, there are a limited number of high credit quality customers to whom banking services may be provided in our target markets. Developments in our loan portfolio will be affected by, among other factors, the health of the Greek economy in light of the economic crisis and the Program. The continuing decline in our loan portfolio, in combination with non-performing loans, may limit our net interest income, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be subject to additional taxes. Due to the uncertainty regarding the success of the Program, new taxes may be imposed on the Group, such as the "one-off" taxation on profitable companies, and existing taxes may be increased. In 2010, the Group was subject to a EUR 79.1 million windfall tax, which comprised of a tax on 2009 earnings of EUR 26.1 million and a reversal of a tax credit from withholding tax of EUR 53.0 million relating to interest income from bonds. In addition, at the European Council Summit held on June 17, 2010, representatives agreed that member states should introduce a system of levies and taxes on financial institutions to promote an equitable distribution of the costs of the global financial crisis. Any additional taxes imposed on us in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Restatement In connection with the restatement of our previously reported financial statements, we may be subject to the risk of litigation or regulatory proceedings or actions. We have restated our previously reported financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 as described in detail in Note 43 to the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements. Consequently, we may be subject to class action lawsuits or regulatory proceedings or actions relating to the restatement of our financial statements. We may incur substantial legal and accounting expenses in connection with the restatement. In addition, should any litigation or regulatory actions occur, it may be time consuming and distract certain management personnel from performing their daily operational duties. Material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. As described above, we have restated our previously reported financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, as described in detail in Note 43 to the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 5—"An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting that is integrated with An Audit of Financial Statements" specifies that the restatement of previously reported financial statements to reflect the correction of a misstatement should be regarded as at least a significant deficiency and as a strong indicator that a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting exists. We considered this guidance, applied our judgment in assessing the reason why a restatement was necessary, taking into account the high uncertainty created by the rapidly evolving economic crisis in Greece and concluded that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed with regards to the credit value adjustment following the revision of our assumption methodology relating to the impact on the Group of credit risk on derivatives (for both counterparty and own risk) and that, as a result, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2011. See Item 15 "Controls and Procedures—Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting". The existence of that material weakness could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Furthermore, further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our material controls would also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of both money and management's time to comply with applicable requirements. We have initiated remedial steps to address this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Risks Relating to the Markets Exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on the value of our shares. The market price of our shares traded on the ATHEX is denominated in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and other currencies may affect the value of the Bank's shares in the local currency of investors in the United States and other countries that have not adopted the euro as their currency. Additionally, any cash dividends on our ordinary shares are paid in euros and, therefore, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations when converted to an investor's local currency, including U.S. dollars. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major exchanges. The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is the ATHEX. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major stock markets in Western Europe and the United States. As a result, shareholders 39 Table of Contents may have difficulty assessing the past performance of the ordinary shares based on our prior trading record on the ATHEX. In 2011, the average daily trading value on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 82.4 million, while in the first four months of 2012 it was approximately EUR 54.1 million. In comparison, the average daily trading value on the London Stock Exchange was approximately GBP 3.7 billion in 2011. As at December 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of all shares listed on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 27.5 billion, while as at April 30, 2012 it was approximately EUR 27.5 billion. The market value of our ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX on December 30, 2011 and April 30, 2012, was EUR 1.5 billion and EUR 1.6 billion, representing approximately 5.6% and 5.8%, respectively, of the capitalization of all companies listed on the ATHEX. We cannot make assurances about the future liquidity of the market for our shares. Our share price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our shares has been subject to significant volatility in the past, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: •the overall condition of the Greek economy and budget deficit; •the perceived stability of the European Monetary Union; •the condition of the Turkish and other economies in which we do business; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •results of operations of our competitors; •potential changes in banking regulatory regimes; •potential or actual sales of large amounts of the Bank's shares into the market; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •conditions and trends in the banking sector in Greece and elsewhere in Europe; and •the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the Greek, Turkish, other SEE and financial services sectors). For the annual high and low market prices of the Bank's shares on the ATHEX for the five most recent financial years see Item 9.A, "Offer and Listing Details". The exercise of pre-emptive rights may not be available to U.S. holders of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts. Under Greek law and our Articles of Association, prior to the issuance of any new ordinary shares, we must offer holders of our existing ordinary shares pre-emptive rights to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of ordinary shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages. These pre-emptive rights are generally transferable during the rights trading period for the related offering and may be traded on the ATHEX. Holders in the United States of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares evidenced by ADRs may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for any such offering of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act"), is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement with respect to any future offering will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ordinary shares and ADRs to exercise their pre-emptive rights and any other factors we may consider appropriate at the time. 40 Table of Contents If holders in the United States of the Bank's ordinary shares and ADRs are not able to exercise pre-emptive rights granted in respect of their shares in any rights offering by us, they might not receive the economic benefit of such rights. In addition, their proportional ownership interests in the Bank will be diluted. 