ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below may not be the only ones relating to our company. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial conditions and future prospects and the trading price of our common stock could be harmed as a result of any of these risks. Investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, including our financial statements and related notes, and our other filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission Risks Related To Our Business We have operated at a loss and it is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. We have operated at a loss since our inception. We incurred net losses of $3,032,000 and $2,246,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2010 of approximately $80,095,000 and a working capital deficit of approximately $5,517,000. We are likely to continue to incur losses unless and until we are able to successfully commercialize one or more of our products. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. In December 2010 we released the first of a series of nutraceuticals that we expect to release in 2011 and thereafter. We anticipate that the commercial release of this product, ErgoFlex™, will continue to generate additional revenues in 2011, particularly since it will be the first product marketed through our new on-line marketing joint venture with engage:BDR. We also intend to offer additional ERGO based nutraceuticals through the marketing joint venture commencing in 2011, which products will generate additional revenues. Although the consumer response to ErgoFlex™ in our December 2010 test market was favorable, no assurance can be given that the product will ultimately achieve a high level of acceptance by a larger consumer market. In addition, even if ErgoFlex™ is successfully marketed and sold through our engage:BDR joint venture, we will only receive 65% of the net revenues of that joint venture (engage:BDR will receive 35% of the net revenues). Accordingly, we are unable to predict the amount of revenues that we may generate in 2011 and beyond, and when we may become profitable, if at all. If we do not become profitable or are unable to maintain future profitability, our ability to survive as a viable company may be in doubt, and the market value of our common stock will be adversely affected. 13 We will need additional capital in order to successfully implement our business plan, without which we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan, which may cause us to have to curtail or cease operations. We currently do not have sufficient cash on hand to fund our administrative expenses for more than the next few months. Our business plan, however, calls for us to incur significant additional expenses in connection with marketing and commercializing our future products and in developing and expanding our business and operations. In particular, our on-line marketing joint venture requires that we contribute up to $1,500,000 of capital to that joint venture during the first year to fund initial start-up expenses. Although we anticipate that our future operations will generate operating revenues, our future development costs, and the costs of commercially releasing any of our proposed products will exceed the amount of cash that we currently have and that those operating activities will generate in the near term. Accordingly, in order to expand our operations in the manner contemplated by our business plan, or to continue to operate our company in the longer term, we will have to either (i) obtain additional debt or equity financing, or (ii) enter into a strategic alliance with a synergistic company to acquire funding. Although we have had substantive discussions with potential providers of additional capital, we do not have commitments from any third parties at this time to provide this financing. Thus, there can be no assurance that sufficient funding will be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Certain potential investors may be unwilling to invest in our securities since we are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and not on a national securities exchange. There is no assurance that sufficient funding through a financing will be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Any additional funding that we obtain in a financing is likely to reduce the percentage ownership of the company held by our existing securityholders. The amount of this dilution may be substantially increased if the trading price of our common stock has declined at the time of any financing from its current levels. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on a timely basis, the introduction of new products could be delayed, our marketing plans may have to be scaled back, and we could be forced to reduce the scope of our operations, or otherwise limit or terminate our operations altogether. We have no direct operating history in the nutraceutical and cosmeceutical business, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial position and our business plan. Until the end of 2008, we were engaged in the sale of research diagnostic reagents and assays to medical research laboratories, and in the production of enzyme immunoassay diagnostic kits for domestic and international clinical laboratories. Since 2008, we no longer are engaged in those businesses, and have restructured our operations. However, since we have only recently commenced our new operations and have not yet generated significant revenues from our business operations, we have no operating history in our current line of business on which a decision to invest in our company can be based. The future of our company currently is dependent upon our ability to implement our new business plan of producing, marketing and selling nutraceutical and other products based on our ERGO technology. While we believe that our business plan, if implemented as contemplated, will make our company successful, we have no operating history against which we can test our plans and assumptions, and therefore cannot evaluate the likelihood of success. 14 We plan to outsource and rely on third parties for the development and manufacture and marketing of our products. Our business model calls for the outsourcing of the development, manufacturing and marketing of our products in order to reduce our capital and infrastructure costs as a means of potentially improving the company’s profitability of these products for us. As a result, we are subject to all of the risks associated with having to rely on third parties to develop, manufacture and market our products to our standards, at the projected costs and on a timely basis. These risks include the willingness of manufacturers to make the product, or lack of availability of manufacturing capacity, each of which would have an adverse impact on the availability of our products and on our ability sell our products. Manufacturing difficulties will harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may hinder our ability to grow. There is no assurance that our outside manufacturers will reliably supply products to us at the level of quality we require. In the event any of our third-party manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide our products, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. An extended interruption in the supply of our products, particularly ERGO, would result in loss of sales. In addition, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales. Our future product sales will be heavily dependent upon the success of our on-line marketing joint venture with engage:BDR. In March 2011, we agreed to form a joint venture with engage:BDR, Inc., an on-line marketing company, to market and sell our nutraceutical products on-line over the Internet. Although we expect to continue to market our products through other means, such as direct mail campaigns, the on-line marketing to be conducted through our joint venture with engage:BDR is anticipated to be our largest marketing and sales effort in 2011. Under the joint venture agreement, engage:BDR will be responsible for the full range of online marketing services, including developing brand strategy, the design of all digital media and interfaces, online media planning and buying, leveraging and integrating social media, and customer analysis. Accordingly, the success of our nutraceutical products will be heavily dependent upon the efforts and success of engage:BDR. The operating agreement of the joint venture with engage:BDR, Inc. requires us to fund the initial start-up expenses of the joint venture with up to $1,500,000 in cash contributions. Unless we provide that funding, the joint venture will not be able to conduct its planned operations, and it will not sell any of our nutraceutical products. Since the joint venture with engage:BDR, Inc. represents our principal marketing initiative in 2011, the failure of the joint venture would materially and detrimentally affect the amount of revenues we anticipate we will receive in 2011 from sales of our products. As of the date of this Annual Report, we do not have the funds to make the $1,500,000 capital contribution, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to raise that capital from third party sources. Accordingly, unless we are able to raise sufficient funds to make the required capital contribution to the joint venture with engage:BDR, Inc., our ability to market and sell our nutraceutical products on-line will be severely limited. 15 Our products will be subject to government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, which could significantly increase our costs and otherwise limit or prevent the sale of our products. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and sale of any products that we may release in the future will be subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries. The primary regulatory bodies in the United States are the FDA and FTC. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may result in various types of penalties or fines. These include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecutions. Individual states also regulate nutritional supplements. A state may interpret claims or products presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that particular state’s regulations. In markets outside the United States, we may have to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a country’s ministry of health or comparable agency, as well as labeling and packaging regulations, all of which vary from country to country. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. Any of these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, or could take aggressive measures, causing or contributing to a variety of negative consequences, including: · requirements for the reformulation of certain or all products to meet new standards, · the recall or discontinuance of certain or all products, · additional record keeping, · expanded documentation of the properties of certain or all products, · expanded or different labeling, · adverse event tracking and reporting, and · additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us. Our success may be linked to the size and growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of that market could have a material adverse effect on us. Some manufacturers in our industry have experienced a slow-down in sales of nutritional supplements. An adverse change in size or growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market could have a material adverse effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research. 16 We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products, including how they compare against similar products distributed by other companies in our industry. Adverse publicity and negative public perception regarding particular ingredients, products or our industry may affect the consumers’ decisions to purchase our products, which could limit our ability to increase revenue and grow our business. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the efficacy or quality of our ingredients, including in particular ERGO. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us. We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. Publicity related to nutritional supplements may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry and/or the healthy foods channel. Adverse publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. We face intense competition from competitors that are larger, more established and that possess greater resources than we do, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to maintain sufficient market share to sustain profitability. Numerous manufacturers and retailers compete actively for consumers, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete with already established manufacturers and retailers. In addition, nutraceutical and cosmeceuticals can be purchased from a wide variety of channels of distribution, including mass market retail stores and the Internet. Because these markets generally have low barriers to entry, additional competitors could enter the market at any time. Private label products of our customers also provide competition to our products. Additional national or international companies may, in the future, seek to enter or to increase their presence in the nutraceutical and cosmeceutical or the vitamin, mineral supplement market. Increased competition in either or both could have a material adverse effect on us. The nutritional supplement industry increasingly relies on intellectual property rights and, although we seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, which claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Recently it has become more and more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. We seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, but there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. These developments could prevent us from offering or supplying competitive products or ingredients in the marketplace. They could also result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights. If an infringement claim is asserted or litigation is pursued, we may be required to obtain a license of rights, pay royalties on a retrospective or prospective basis, or terminate the manufacturing and marketing of our products that are alleged to have infringed. Litigation with respect to such matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 17 Our patents may not protect the proprietorship of our products. Our ability to compete successfully will depend to a significant extent, on our patents and on our ability to defend our patents. Most of the initial products that we plan to release are based on the benefits of ERGO. Our patents and patent applications address the ability to make ERGO and the protective effect of ERGO on mitochondria and its neuroprotectant properties. We believe these patents thus provide us with a competitive advantage in our market. We have previously initiated legal proceedings to enforce our patent protection rights for manufacture and use of ERGO in cosmeceuticals. For example, in 2010, we settled a patent dispute with The Estée Lauder Companies, which provided us with title to two important ERGO method of use patents. However, the failure to defend our patents in the future could have an adverse effect on our planned business operations and product sales. Even though we have obtained patent protection for certain effects and preparation processes related to Ergothioneine, there is no guarantee that the coverage of these patents will be sufficiently broad to protect us from competitors or that we will be able to enforce our patents against potential infringement by third parties or protect us against our infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties. Patent litigation is expensive, and we may not be able to afford the costs. Ergothioneine has been previously marketed by various other companies in cosmeceutical and nutraceutical purposes. This may make it more difficult for us to enforce our patent coverage for our proposed products and easier for third parties to compete against us. Product liability claims could hurt our business. Our products consist of ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. As a marketer of dietary and nutritional supplements and other products that are ingested by consumers or applied to their bodies, we may be subjected to various product liability claims, including that: (i) our products contain contaminants; (ii) our products include inadequate instructions as to their uses; or (iii) our products include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. It is possible that product liability claims and the resulting adverse publicity could negatively affect our business; that our product liability insurance may fail to cover future product liability claims so we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages which could harm our business. Product Claims, Advertising And Distributor Activities. Our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, as well as claims and advertising by our marketing joint venture, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. 18 Risks Related to Our Securities Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on or a national securities exchange. Our securities are currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an NASD-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not listed on a national securities exchange. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on a national securities exchange. Some investors may perceive our securities to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, as an OTC Bulletin Board listed company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on a national securities exchange. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our securities. You may have difficulty selling our shares because they are deemed “penny stocks.” Our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, and the trading price of our common stock has consistently remained below $5.00 per share for the past ten years. Trading in our common stock is subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any non-national securities exchange equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and the ability of holders of the common stock to sell their shares. Our existing stockholders are subject to significant additional dilution if the currently outstanding options, warrants and convertible promissory notes are exercised. The sale of these additional shares could also cause our common stock price to fall. As of March 31, 2011, a total of 162,680,842 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. However, we currently have outstanding options, warrants and convertible promissory notes that could result in the issuance of a total of 417,841,204 additional shares of common stock. If all shares issuable under the foregoing options, warrants, convertible promissory notes and other agreements were issued, our current shareholders would own only 28% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, the stockholdings of current stockholders will be substantially diluted if and when these convertible securities are converted or when the options and warrants are exercised. If many of these shares are actually issued, the voting power of the currently outstanding shares would substantially decrease. Furthermore, the re-sale of these newly issued shares, or even the possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock may be sold in the public market, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 19 The voting rights of the preferred stock held by Theorem Group, LLC gives that stockholder the ability to control the voting shares of this company and to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Theorem Group, LLC, an affiliate of Mr. Dube (one of our directors), owns all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Series H Convertible Preferred Stock. As the holder of all of the Series H Convertible Preferred Stock, Theorem Group, LLC is entitled to a number of votes equal to (A) the number of shares of Common Stock that such shares of preferred stock could, at such time, be converted into (B) multiplied by 100. Since the Series H Convertible Preferred Stock is currently convertible into 2,500,000 shares of our common stock, Theorem Group has the voting power of 250,000,000 shares, or approximately 60.6% of our voting shares. As a result, Theorem Group is able to direct the outcome of matters, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: · our merger with or into another company; · a sale of substantially all of our assets; and · amendments to our certificate of incorporation. The decisions of Theorem Group may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: · announcements by us of new product releases, or the delay in releasing new products; · developments with respect to our patents or proprietary rights; · announcements of new products or new contracts by our competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed such estimates; · conditions and trends in the nutraceutical, cosmeceutical and other industries; · new accounting standards; · general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and · the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 