Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report on Form 10-K. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we are unable to retain our existing users and attract new users, especially physician users, our revenue will decline and our business will suffer. A necessary condition to our long-term success is our ability to retain our existing users and attract new users, especially physician users in specialties of interest to our healthcare clients, to our interactive services and drug and clinical reference tools. If we are unable to do so, our revenue could decline materially. Most of our users use only our free drug reference product and may stop using the products at anytime without loss. Most of the paid subscriptions to our premium drug and clinical reference products have a term of one year and our users have no obligation to renew their subscriptions when such subscriptions expire. Under certain circumstances, our users may cancel their subscriptions prior to expiration or simply stop using the services before the subscription expires. Factors that may affect the retention rate of our existing users and the rate at which we attract new users for our drug and clinical reference tools include: •our ability to provide current, relevant and reliable healthcare content, drug and clinical reference tools, formulary hosting and other services that meet the needs of healthcare professionals, including physicians; •our ability to provide reliable applications and to enhance the functionality, availability, performance and features of our existing and future services to meet the evolving requirements and expectations of our existing and future users; •the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services, including competing mobile, Web-based and traditional products and services, and electronic health records systems that incorporate drug and clinical reference tools; •deterioration of our reputation and brand for any reason, including user concerns with our privacy practices or our relationships with the healthcare industry; and •the ability of the developers of mobile operating systems and mobile devices with which our products are compatible to remain competitive in the marketplace and to be adopted into medical practice and practice workflow. In addition, our paid products compete with free products offered by competitors or those available through online resources and searches which can be accessed through most mobile devices. The availability of download sites such as the Apple App StoreSM that offer numerous free or low-priced competing products at one location has also reduced the demand for our paid subscription products. We expect the use of such sites to expand, reducing the number of paying users for our drug and clinical reference tools as a percentage of total users. In addition to the loss of subscription revenue, our inability to attract or retain users, especially physician users, may cause an even more significant decline in revenue from our interactive services. Revenue from such services is tied directly to our ability to maintain a large user network of healthcare professionals that is attractive to our industry clients. 23 Table of Contents If we have an insufficient number of users, especially physician users, with desired characteristics for some of our interactive services or those users do not update their mobile devices with sufficient frequency, we may become unable to timely fulfill the demand for some of our interactive services from healthcare companies. Our ability to meet the demand for delivering clinical messages, formularies and other sponsored content to users' mobile devices is dependent upon our having a sufficient number of users, especially physician users, with desired characteristics, such as specialty and prescribing habits, updating their mobile devices through our servers with sufficient frequency during the period for delivery of the service. In addition, we have established business rules and structured our technology to limit the number of DocAlert messages and the mix of sponsored and non-sponsored messages delivered during any single update by a user in order to promote the quality of the user's experience with the clinical messaging service. It is possible that an insufficient number of users will update during a given service period for our interactive services, or that demand for promotional clinical messaging sponsorship will exceed the available supply for all or a subset of our users. In either of these events, our healthcare clients could become dissatisfied with our service. As a result, we may be unable to grow our interactive services revenue beyond the bounds of our business rules and technology structure, and changes to such business rules or technology structure could cause our users' satisfaction with and response to our interactive services to decrease, which could make such changes ineffective in addressing such inability to grow these revenues. If the response of our users, especially physician users, to our interactive services decreases, the value of these services will be reduced and our revenue will decline. In the past, we have obtained a positive response from our users to our interactive services, including offers to participate in market research studies, sponsored clinical messaging and other forms of communication. If, however, our users, particularly physician users, become less responsive to receiving communications or participating in such services, or elect not to use new services that we may offer, the value of these interactive services will likely decline. This could cause our revenue to remain flat or to decline. If we are unable to continue to provide current, relevant and reliable drug and clinical reference tools and services, we will be unable to retain and attract users to our services and our revenue may decline. Use of our clinical information and interactive services is based upon our ability to make available current, relevant and reliable drug and clinical reference tools, formulary hosting and other services that meet the needs of our users. Our ability to do so depends on our ability to: •hire and retain qualified physician and pharmacist editors and authors; •license accurate and relevant content from third parties; •contract with health plans and insurers to host formulary information; and •monitor and respond to changes in user interest in specific topics. For several of the clinical references included in our Epocrates® Essentials and Epocrates® Essentials Deluxe products, we are particularly dependent on third-party content providers. For example, we license Stedman's Medical Dictionary 28th Edition and information regarding ICD-9 and CPT® codes from third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop or acquire needed content at a reasonable cost, that there will not be errors or omissions in our developed or licensed content, or that our competitors will not obtain exclusive access to or develop content that healthcare professionals consider superior to ours. If any of these risks materialize for any reason, the value of the content and services that we offer would diminish. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain users. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain credibility of our brand, our business and financial condition could suffer. The credibility of our brand is dependent in large part on the medical community's continued perception of us as independent from our healthcare industry clients, particularly pharmaceutical companies. If healthcare professionals believe that we are too closely associated with such clients as a result of the revenue we receive from their purchase or sponsorship of our interactive services, the credibility of our brand will diminish. Although we take precautions to remain independent from our healthcare industry clients, including separating the development of our application content from our commercial dealings with such clients and clearly labeling the source and responsibility of sponsored messages, programs and activities, we cannot assure you that the medical community will view our content as sufficiently unbiased. If the credibility of our brand is damaged, it will be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to restore the quality of our brand with healthcare professionals and our business could suffer. We are dependent upon our senior executive management and other highly specialized personnel and the loss or failure to identify, hire, motivate and retain additional highly specialized personnel could negatively impact our ability to grow our business. Our success and the execution of our growth strategy depend largely on the continued service of our senior executive management team. Several members of our management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer have been with us for a relatively short period of time. Although these executives have joined us with a significant amount of professional experience, our future success could be hindered by their limited exposure to our business. Moreover, the loss of key members of our management team could have a negative impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to replace any member of our management team in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. Our future success and the execution of our growth strategy also depend largely on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel, including software engineers, clinician authors and other technical, sales and marketing personnel. Our competitors, employers in other industries, healthcare providers, academic institutions and governmental entities and organizations also often seek persons with similar qualifications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at salary and benefit costs that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to adopt new technologies and offer our products and services on new and existing mobile platforms, we will be unable to retain and attract users to our services and our revenue may decline. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated client requirements and sustain market acceptance, we will need to continue to deploy new tools and features for our clinical information and interactive services and develop new offerings with enhanced performance and functionality at competitive prices, including the incorporation of sophisticated clinical information into our electronic health record product. Accordingly, we will need to properly identify user needs, anticipate technological advances and potentially offer our products and services on new and existing mobile platforms. The development and application of new technologies involve time, substantial costs and risks. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop and introduce services in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions or client requirements could result in our services losing market acceptance, and therefore adversely affect our operating results. The new technologies may be significant and expensive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to 25 Table of Contents implement them quickly and efficiently, or at all. Failure to do so could inhibit our ability to attract or retain users, which may cause our revenue to decline. Our software applications and systems may contain defects or errors which could negatively affect our reputation and impair our ability to retain and attract users to our applications and clients purchasing our services. While we test our applications and systems for defects and errors prior to release, defects or errors have been identified from time to time by our internal team and by our users and clients after release. Such defects or errors may occur in the future, particularly with respect to our electronic health records, or EHR, product, which is significantly more complex than the products and services that we currently offer. Any defects or errors that affect the quality or reliability of our products and services or that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: •lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our applications and services; •loss of users and clients; •inability to attract new users and clients; •product liability or breach of contract suits against us; •diversion of development resources; •injury to our brand and reputation; and •increased maintenance and warranty costs. While our subscription and interactive services agreements typically contain limitations of liability and disclaimers that purport to limit our liability for damages related to defects in our software or content, such limitations and disclaimers may not be enforced by a court or other tribunal or otherwise effectively protect us from related claims. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. However, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or hinder market acceptance of our services, including unrelated services. The healthcare information market is highly competitive and we face significant competition for our drug and clinical reference tools and interactive services. The markets in which we participate are competitive, dynamic and subject to developments in technology and the healthcare industry. Currently, we compete with other companies for users of the types of drug and clinical reference tools that we offer and for budget dollars from our pharmaceutical, managed care and market research clients. We compete within a broad industry of healthcare content providers for the attention of healthcare professionals, who can choose to use mobile, online or print media to reference clinical information. Companies providing clinical content include Medscape, a division of WebMD, LLC, and UpToDate, Inc. Competition from each of these sources of clinical reference content may lead to a reduction in the retention of our existing users and the rate at which we attract new users for our clinical information. 26 Table of Contents Our primary competition for the promotional spend available from our clients in the area of interactive services is from companies, including WebMD, that help pharmaceutical companies market their products, programs and services to healthcare professionals. In addition, our market research business competes with numerous companies which recruit physicians to participate in surveys, often by phone, fax, email or surface mail. We also compete with the recruitment arms of market research companies that have assembled their own survey panels of healthcare professionals. To the extent competing channels are available to access healthcare professionals, including physicians, the value of our interactive services to our clients is reduced. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. They may also be better able to develop and deploy new products and services or to take advantage of new technologies than we are. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to enhance, develop and introduce services in a timely manner, or at all, in response to changing market conditions, technology or client requirements could result in our services losing market acceptance, and therefore adversely affect our operating results. New technologies may be significant and expensive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement them quickly and efficiently, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. Moreover, the competitive market in which we participate may require us to reduce the prices of our services or the rates we charge our clients. If our competitors offer discounts on certain applications or services, we may be required to reduce prices or offer our products on terms less favorable to us to compete successfully. A reduction in the prices of our services would reduce our margins. Some of our competitors may offer bundled products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could, over time, limit the prices that we can charge for our services. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in sales volume, our operating results would be adversely affected. We have invested significant resources in the development of an electronic health record product, but the market for such products is competitive, our product has not yet been released and we have limited experience in that market. EHRs are significantly more complex than the products and services that we have historically offered to healthcare professionals, involving sensitive personal health information protected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and other laws as well as sophisticated data exchanges associated with electronic prescribing and other transactions. In addition, we will be dependent upon a number of vendors for components of the services associated with our EHR product, including lab ordering and retrieval, electronic prescribing and other matters. Many of our competitors have been participating in this market for many years and have invested significantly more resources in the development of their products than we have. In addition, under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, incentives to physicians and others will be available beginning in 2011 for the acquisition and use of EHRs, but only if those EHRs are certified and the use of the EHR constitutes "meaningful use" as will be defined by the law. Our EHR product has not yet been released or certified, and there is no guarantee that our product will be certified or that use of it will qualify for "meaningful use." Even if our product meets these requirements, we may be too late to the market to compete for the growing numbers of physicians and others expected to adopt such products in order to qualify for the government incentives beginning in 2011. Moreover, even if our EHR product is certified and qualifies for "meaningful use," numerous factors, including, but not limited to, development delays, unexpected intellectual property disputes and our inability to compete in the market could hinder client acceptance of the product. 27 Table of Contents We are not compatible with all mobile platforms. Our mobile clinical information is not compatible with all mobile platforms. While we offer online services, the majority of our users and our interactive services are on mobile devices. We depend on the continuing compatibility of our clinical information and services with mobile operating systems and mobile devices and with evolving industry standards and protocols to run our mobile clinical information. In addition, we are dependent on the ability of the developers of mobile platforms with which our drug and clinical reference tools are compatible to remain competitive in the medical community and the general marketplace. To remain competitive, developers of such mobile platforms may need to timely enhance their products, develop new operating systems or devices or take other actions which are outside of our control. If a mobile platform that is incompatible with our products achieves widespread use and acceptance in the medical community, or if Internet resources or other non-mobile device resources becomes more attractive than what is offered for mobile platforms, we may be unable to retain or attract users to our products. In particular, our mobile products are not compatible with Symbian-based devices. We may not sustain our revenue growth, and we may not be able to manage future growth effectively. We have experienced significant revenue growth in a short period of time. Our revenue increased from $83.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $104.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. You should not rely on our revenue growth, gross margins, or operating results for any prior quarter or annual period as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth in absolute dollars, we may not sustain our recent profitability and our share price could decline. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our anticipated expansion and growth. To manage our growth successfully, among other things, we must effectively: •add additional sales and marketing personnel in various locations; •control expenses; •maintain and enhance our information technology support for enterprise resource planning, accounting and design engineering by adapting and expanding our systems and tool capabilities; •recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified people; and •manage operations in multiple locations and time zones. We are increasing our investment in research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative and other functions to grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these increased investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments, if any, may be lower, may develop more slowly than we expect, or may not materialize. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products or enhancements to existing products and we may fail to satisfy client requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan, or respond to competitive pressures, which could result in lower revenue and profitability and a decline in our share price. 28 Table of Contents Our operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate, which might make our quarterly results difficult to predict and could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Each of the following factors, among others, could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter: •demand for and market acceptance of our services; •factors relating to pharmaceutical company budget cycles and other factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products or demand for our services by our clients; •changes in pharmaceutical company demand as a result of delays or changes in product approvals, changes in marketing strategies, modifications of client budgets and similar matters; •the length of sales cycles and fulfillment periods of our services to pharmaceutical companies and other segments of the healthcare industry; •expansion of marketing and support operations; •the timing of new product introductions, including our new EHR product, and product enhancements by us or our competitors; and •the cost of being a public company. The majority of our clinical information subscriptions have terms of one year and our contracts with our other healthcare industry clients for our interactive services typically range from one to three years. We cannot assure you that our current users and other clients will continue to participate in our existing programs beyond the terms of their existing contracts or that they will enter into any additional contracts for new programs that we offer. In addition, the time between the date of the signing of the contract with a client for a program, the actual fulfillment of the services under such contract and the revenue recognition associated with such revenues may be lengthy, especially for larger contracts with multiple deliverables, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control, including those that result from the client's need for internal approvals. Other factors that could affect the timing of our interactive services revenue include: •variations in the marketing budgets allocated for the types of services we offer; •the timing of federal Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approval for new pharmaceutical products or for new approved uses for existing products; •regulatory concerns related to the marketing of pharmaceutical products; and •factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products. Because we recognize revenue from our drug and clinical reference tool subscriptions and certain of our interactive services over the term or at the end of the service period, a significant downturn in our business may not be reflected immediately in our operating results, which may make it more difficult to evaluate our prospects. We recognize revenue from subscription agreements monthly over the terms of these agreements, which are typically one year. In most cases, we recognize revenue from our interactive services over the terms of these agreements or upon delivery of each service element. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from subscription and service agreements entered 29 Table of Contents into during prior periods. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions or service agreements in any one quarter may not materially affect our financial performance in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs, many of which are fixed, in response to reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our services may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, which would make our reported results less indicative of our future prospects. Developments in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our business. Most of our revenue is derived from the healthcare industry and could be reduced by changes affecting healthcare spending. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare companies could result from, among other things: •government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare providers interact with patients, pharmaceutical companies, payors or other healthcare industry participants, including changes in pricing or means of delivery of healthcare products and services; •consolidation of healthcare companies; •reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and •adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting healthcare payors or providers, the pharmaceutical industry or other healthcare companies. We are particularly dependent upon pharmaceutical companies for our interactive services revenue. Our business will be harmed if business or economic conditions or government regulations result in the reduction of purchases by such clients, the non-renewal of our agreements with such clients, or the need to materially revise our offerings. Even if general expenditures by healthcare companies remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific segments of the market we serve or are planning to serve. For example, purchase of our services could be affected by: •a decrease in the number of, or the market exclusivity available to, new drugs coming to market; •decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical companies as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit advertising or sponsorship activities by pharmaceutical companies; •state or federal legislation requiring the disclosure of, or otherwise regulating, honorarium payments to physicians for participation in market research activities; and •changes in the design of health insurance plans. In addition, our clients' expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to services of the types we provide. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the markets for our services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. 30 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims brought against us as a result of the services we provide. Healthcare professionals access information, including information regarding particular medical conditions and the use of particular medications, through our drug and clinical reference tools, interactive services and, when launched, our EHR product. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, or we introduce inaccuracies in the process of implementing third party content, it is possible that patients, physicians, consumers, the providers of the third party content or others may sue us if they are harmed as a result of such inaccuracies. We have editorial procedures in place to provide quality control of the information that we publish or provide. However, we cannot assure you that our editorial and other quality control procedures will be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in particular content and we have had content errors in the past. Although our agreements for the performance of our services contain terms and conditions, including disclaimers of liability, that are intended to reduce or eliminate our liability, the law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by users or third parties that our online agreements are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these agreements are invalid and that we are subject to liability could harm our business and financial condition and require costly changes to our business. In addition, third parties may assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. We could also be subject to claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims made against our clients and third-party service providers for third-party products and content that are incorporated into our clinical information if they are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our defense costs and potential damages. Any of these events could be expensive and time consuming to resolve or defend, may require us to change our business practices and could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be required to spend significant amounts of time and money to defend ourselves against any such claims. Although we may be indemnified against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to fulfill its obligations. If any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions, or stop distributing our products and services while we re-engineer them or seek licenses to necessary technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Even if potential claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention away from our operations. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, however this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on acceptable terms. Further, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. In addition, our business is based on establishing the reputation of our services as trustworthy and reliable sources of clinical information. Allegations of impropriety or inaccuracy, even if unfounded, could therefore harm our reputation and business. Healthcare and consumer protection regulations and legislation create risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs and restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex and their application to specific products and services may not be clear, particularly as we develop and release new and more sophisticated products and services. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not contemplate the clinical information and interactive services that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our services. We are also subject to various federal and state consumer protection laws. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or 31 Table of Contents other failure to comply with them, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. Some of the risks we face from healthcare and consumer protection regulations are as follows: Regulation of drug and medical device advertising and promotion. We provide services involving promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical devices. Any increase in regulation of these areas by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, or other governmental bodies at the federal, state or local level, could make it more difficult for us to contract for certain of our interactive services. Physician groups and others have criticized the FDA's current policies and have called for restrictions on advertising of prescription drugs and for increased FDA enforcement. In response, the FDA has conducted hearings and sought public comment regarding its regulation of information concerning drugs on the Internet and the relationships between pharmaceutical companies and those disseminating information on drugs. We cannot predict what actions the FDA or industry participants may take in response to these criticisms. It is also possible that new laws would be enacted that impose restrictions on such marketing and advertising. Our interactive services revenues could be materially reduced by additional restrictions on the marketing or advertising of prescription drugs and medical devices, whether imposed by law or regulation or by policies adopted by industry members. If the FDA, the FTC or another governmental body finds that any information available on our website or distributed by us violates FDA, FTC or other laws or regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. State attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state's consumer protection statutes or other new or existing laws. Anti-kickback laws. Healthcare anti-kickback laws prohibit any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. These laws may restrict how we and some of our clients market products to healthcare providers. The laws in this area are broadly written and it is often difficult to determine precisely how the laws will be applied in specific circumstances. Penalties for violating the federal anti-kickback laws include imprisonment, fines and exclusion from participating, directly or indirectly, in federal healthcare programs. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our practices could result in negative publicity and it could be costly for us to respond. Legislation relating to payments to physicians. Recent legislation enacted or pending in several states and enacted at the federal level as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 mandates public disclosure of, or otherwise regulates or limits the providing of, certain gifts and payments by pharmaceutical companies to physicians. These state laws may be interpreted to cover honorarium payments made to physicians for participation in market research activities sponsored by pharmaceutical companies. Because we currently provide market research services involving participants from our user network, the increased adoption and enforcement of these laws and the application of any public disclosure requirements or other limitations may have a negative impact on the ability of pharmaceutical companies to sponsor these activities or the willingness of physicians to participate in the market research. To date, we have not experienced a significant reduction in our market research services business as a result of these laws in the few jurisdictions in which they have been enacted and become effective. However, we cannot predict how pharmaceutical companies or physicians will respond if such legislation becomes 32 Table of Contents more widespread or becomes effective at the federal level. A significant decline in the sponsorship of our market research services by pharmaceutical companies or the agencies that represent such companies, or a significant decline in physicians' willingness to participate in such studies could negatively impact our operating results. Medical professional regulation. The practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law. In addition, the laws in some states prohibit business entities from practicing medicine. We do not believe that we engage in the practice of medicine and we have attempted to structure our services, strategic relationships and other operations to avoid violating these state licensing and professional practice laws. We employ and contract with physicians who provide only medical information to users, some of whom may be consumers, and we do not intend to provide medical care or advice. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us. Anti-spam regulation. We may also be required to comply with current or future anti-spam legislation by limiting or modifying some of our interactive services, such as our clinical messaging, which may result in a reduction in our revenue. One such law, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, became effective in the United States on January 1, 2004. CAN-SPAM imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with the sending of commercial e-mail. CAN-SPAM or similar laws may impose burdens on our user communication practices and on certain of our services, which in turn could harm our ability to attract new clients and increase revenues. Privacy and other consumer protection regulation. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA, applies to operators of commercial websites and online services directed to U.S. children under the age of 13 that collect personal information from children and operators of general audience sites with actual knowledge that they are collecting information from U.S. children under the age of 13. Our sites are not directed at children and we employ a kick-out procedure whereby anyone identifying themselves as being under the age of 13 during the registration process is not allowed to register to obtain our clinical information or participate in our services. COPPA, however, is a relatively new law, can be applied broadly and is subject to interpretation by courts and other governmental authorities. The failure to accurately anticipate the application or interpretation of this law could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. The FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to require that the online collection, use and dissemination of data, and the presentation of website or other electronic content, comply with certain standards for notice, choice, security and access. Courts may also adopt these developing standards. A number of states, including California, have enacted laws or are considering the enactment of laws governing the release of credit card or other personal information received from consumers. In many cases, the specific limitations imposed by these standards are subject to interpretation by courts and other governmental authorities. A determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet these standards could result in liability and adversely affect our business. New interpretations of these standards could also require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. In addition, several foreign governments have regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal information obtained from their citizens. Those governments may attempt to apply such laws extraterritorially or through treaties or other arrangements with U.S. governmental entities. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future which may increase the chance that we violate them unintentionally. Any such developments, or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws, or the failure to accurately anticipate the application or interpretation of these laws could create liability to us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. 33 Table of Contents In connection with our planned entry into the EHR market, we have begun to handle personal health information and therefore have become subject to HIPAA's numerous requirements regarding the handling and use of the information subject to its requirements. The failure to accurately anticipate the application or interpretation of this law as we develop our EHR product or a failure by us to comply with its requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. We rely on Internet service providers, co-location data center providers, other third parties and our own systems for key aspects of the process of providing and updating content to our users and performing services for our clients, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could harm our business. Our users expect to be able to update our applications and access our services 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. However, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems, as well as third party vendors, including a co-location service provider and Internet service providers, to provide our online services. We have computing and communications hardware operations located at our facilities in San Mateo, California, and in a co-location service administered by AT&T, Inc. in Redwood City, California. In the event of a catastrophic event at one of these sites, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability which could negatively impact our relationship with users and adversely affect our brand and our business. In particular, both of our co-location facilities are located in the same seismically active location in the San Francisco Bay Area. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by these third party providers or any failure of or by these third party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third party technologies and interactive services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and clients, adversely affect our brand and our business and potentially expose us to liability to third parties. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies generally only covers losses due to our negligence, and therefore may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. If the systems we use to provide our services experience security breaches or are otherwise perceived to be insecure, our business could suffer. We retain and transmit confidential information in the processing centers and other facilities we use to provide online services. It is critical that such facilities and infrastructure remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace as secure. A security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. As we enter the EHR market and begin to handle personal health information, we become subject to HIPAA, which increases our liability in the event of security breaches. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or the systems that they interface with, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to legal claims from our clients and users, including claims for 34 Table of Contents breach of contract or breach of warranty, or regulatory enforcement actions against us by the government. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends to a significant degree on our proprietary technology and ability to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, and our competitors or other third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademark registrations. If the patents or trademark registrations we seek do not issue, or if other problems arise with our intellectual property, our competitiveness could be significantly impaired and our business, operations and prospects may suffer. There can also be no assurance that any of our issued patents or registered trademarks, or any patents and trademarks that may issue in the future, will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents and trademarks will not be challenged by our competitors or other third parties or found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances, and our agreements with subscribers limit their use of the software and content provided to them. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Further, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in preventing the unauthorized access to, or use of, our clinical and other proprietary information or the reverse engineering of our technology. In any event, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technology or authoring clinical information that is substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or the information we distribute. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources and can put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. The occurrence of any of these events may seriously harm our business. We may be subject to claims by third parties that we are infringing their intellectual property, we may be prevented from selling certain services and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. Much of our business relies on technology and content developed or licensed by third parties. We also expect to seek to license technology and content from third parties for future products and services. We may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses, content and technologies from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to retain our current third party licenses or obtain third party licenses required to develop new products or product enhancements could require that we change our product and design plans, any of which could harm or delay our ability to sell our products and adversely affect our business. We may receive claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties or otherwise become aware of relevant patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties that may lead to 35 Table of Contents disputes and litigation. Any claims made against us regarding patents or other intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming to resolve or defend and could have a negative effect on our business. We expect that software application developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Our competitors or other third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. Third parties may also claim that the technology that we acquire or license from other third parties infringes their intellectual property rights and we may not be indemnified for such claims. We may also be required to indemnify our clients and third-party service providers for third-party products and content that are incorporated into our clinical information if they are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of our third-party service providers are obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the rights of others, such indemnification may not be effective or adequate to protect us or the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, distract management's attention and resources, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products or to obtain licenses to any intellectual property we may be found to infringe. Claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to redesign affected products, delay affected product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing, selling or distributing the affected products. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. There can be no assurance that any such litigation can be avoided or successfully concluded. Our use of "open source" software could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. A significant portion of the products or technologies licensed, developed and/or distributed by us incorporate so-called "open source" software and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we disclose source code for modifications we make to the open source software and that we license such modifications to third parties at no cost. In some circumstances, distribution of our software in connection with open source software could require that we disclose and license some or all of our proprietary code in that software as well as distribute our products that use particular open source software at no cost to the user. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid uses in a manner that would require us to disclose or grant licenses under our proprietary source code, however, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. Open source license terms are often ambiguous and such use could inadvertently occur. There is little legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and the potential impact of these terms on our business may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, in the past, faced claims seeking enforcement of open source license provisions and claims asserting ownership of open source software incorporated into their product. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of an open source license, we could incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations. In the event such claims were successful, we could be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain ways, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our 36 Table of Contents proprietary software, which could substantially help our competitors develop products that are similar to or better than ours and otherwise adversely affect our business. We face potential liability related to the privacy and security of personal information we collect from healthcare professionals through our products and interactive services. Online user privacy is a major concern in both the United States and abroad. The European Union, or EU, adopted the Data Protection Directive, or DPD, imposing strict regulations and establishing a series of requirements regarding the collection and use of personally identifiable information online. DPD provides for specific regulations requiring all non-EU countries doing business with EU member states to provide adequate data privacy protection when receiving personal data from any of the EU member states. Similarly, Canada's Personal Information and Protection of Electronic Documents Act provides Canadian residents with privacy protections in regard to transactions with businesses and organizations in the private sector and sets out ground rules for how private sector organizations may collect, use or disclose personal information in the course of commercial activities. We have privacy policies posted with our services that we believe comply with applicable laws requiring notice to users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices. However, whether and how existing local and international privacy and consumer protection laws in various jurisdictions apply to the Internet and other online technologies is still uncertain and may take years to resolve. United States and international privacy laws and regulations, if drafted or interpreted broadly, could be deemed to apply to the technology we use, and could restrict our information collection methods or decrease the amount and utility of the information that we would be permitted to collect. Any legislation or regulation in the area of privacy of personal information could affect the way we operate our online services and could harm our business. The costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may prevent us from selling our products or increase the costs associated with selling our products, and may affect our ability to invest in or jointly develop products in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Further, we cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements on our applications or our practices will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity relating to the privacy and security of personal information. In the conduct of our market research activities outside the United States, we rely upon a third party to identify and recruit respondents for the market research and to comply with the applicable privacy laws in each jurisdiction in which it operates. If this third party failed to comply with such laws, it could affect its ability to continue to support our business or negatively affect our reputation. The Privacy Standards under HIPAA establish a set of basic national privacy standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses, healthcare providers and their business associates. With our planned entry into the EHR market, we will become subject to HIPAA and other similar state and federal laws governing the collection, dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of patient-identifiable information. Some users of our products and services are located outside of the United States, we recruit for market research internationally and we may in the future establish international operations and, as a result, face diverse risks related to engaging in international business. Although the substantial majority of our users are located in the United States, we currently have users in numerous other countries. We are, or may become, subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; •exposure to a broader, more diverse set of regulations; 37 Table of Contents •more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada; •changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions; •unfavorable currency exchange rates; •exposure to competitors who are more familiar with local markets; •limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection; and •restrictions on repatriation of earnings. In addition, in the future, we may expand geographically through product development and strategic alliances. However, our products and services may not be accepted in international markets and any potential international operations involve a variety of risks. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our services abroad. In addition, while Symbian is the most widely used mobile operating system in Europe, our clinical information and interactive services are not compatible with Symbian based devices. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. We will incur significantly increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, and potentially our independent registered public accounting firm beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify additional deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, 38 Table of Contents new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal control from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Moreover, we cannot be certain that these measures would ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we were to conclude, and our auditors were to concur, that our internal control over financial reporting provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the trading price for our common stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. If we acquire or invest in other companies, assets or technologies and we are not able to effectively integrate them with our business, or we do not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these transactions, our financial performance may be impaired. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may consider acquiring or making investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe to be strategic, such as our recent acquisition of Modality, Inc. We do not have significant experience in acquisitions and investments in other companies, and our acquisition of Modality exposes us, and if we acquire or invest in additional companies, assets or technologies, we will be further exposed, to a number of risks, including: •we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed; •we may have difficulty integrating the assets, technologies, operations or personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; •we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets, and we may face increased competition, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; and •we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, including the proceeds of this offering. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options and warrants, existing stockholders might be diluted and earnings per share amounts might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. 39 Table of Contents We intend to expand our operations and increase our expenditures in an effort to grow our business. If we are not able to manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. We significantly expanded our operations in 2009 and 2010. For example, during the period from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2010, we increased the number of our employees and full-time contractors by approximately 39%, from 255 to 354. We anticipate that further expansion of our infrastructure and headcount will be required to achieve planned expansion of our product offerings, particularly the development of our EHR solution, projected increases in our user network and anticipated growth in the number of product deployments. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies and reporting systems and procedures. Further, we intend to grow our business by developing new product and service offerings and pursuing new clients. If we fail to timely or efficiently expand operational and financial systems in connection with such growth or if we fail to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures, resulting operating inefficiencies could increase costs and expenses more than we planned and might cause us to lose the ability to take advantage of market opportunities, enhance existing products, develop new products, satisfy client requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Additionally, if we increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and such growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results likely would be negatively impacted. Business interruptions due to natural disasters and other events could adversely affect our business. Our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, power failures, telecommunication losses, terrorist attacks and acts of war. For example, the majority of our operations are based in Northern California near major earthquake faults that are considered seismically active. Such events, whether natural or manmade, could cause severe destruction or interruption to our operations, and as a result, our business could suffer serious harm. Although we carry business interruption insurance, it only covers some, but not all, of these potential events, and even for those events that are covered, may not be sufficient to compensate us fully for losses or damages that may occur as a result of such events, including, for example, loss of market share and diminution of our brand, reputation and client loyalty. Risks related to ownership of our common stock As our common stock has only recently become publicly traded, we expect that the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Prior to our initial public offering on February 2, 2011, there had been no public market for our common stock. An active public trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: •quarterly variations in our operating results, or the operating results of our competitors; •the timing of revenue recognition; •the volume and timing of orders from our clients and users; •the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; •announcements related to litigation; 40 Table of Contents •changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; •the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; •changing legal or regulatory requirements; •developments in our industry or the medical or pharmaceutical industries generally; and •general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, the stock market has experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and the diversion of our management's attention from our business. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts do publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of February 28, 2011, we had 23,369,062 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the 5,360,000 shares offered in our initial public offering and the 804,000 shares offered upon the exercise of the overallotment option, both of which closed on February 7, 2011, will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our "affiliates" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Of the remaining shares outstanding, 17,205,062 shares may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 and 701 upon the expiration of lock-up agreements that expire 180 days after the date of our initial public offering unless otherwise extended or waived. Existing stockholders holding an aggregate of 12,337,300 shares of common stock, including 16,540 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of an outstanding warrant, will have rights, subject to some conditions, that permit them to require us to file a registration statement with the SEC or include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If we register the sale of their shares of common stock following the expiration of the lock-up agreements, they can sell those shares in the public market. On March 17, 2011, we registered an additional 7,455,263 shares of common stock for issuance under our stock plans. As of February 28, 2011, 6,175,475 shares were subject to outstanding options, with a weighted average exercise price of 41 Table of Contents $9.58 per share, of which 3,409,740 shares were vested. In addition, 159,620 shares were subject to outstanding restricted stock units, of which 19,650 shares were vested. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and vesting, subject to the lock-up agreements referred to above and the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of February 28, 2011, our officers, directors and principal stockholders each holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively controlled approximately 51.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to control our management and affairs and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We have broad discretion in the use of proceeds of our initial public offering for working capital and general corporate purposes. The net proceeds of our initial public offering of $65.1 million which closed on February 7, 2011 (including proceeds from the exercise of the overallotment option) were to be used to pay aggregate cumulative dividends due to the holders of our Series B preferred stock totaling $29.6 million, with the balance to be used for general corporate purposes. Other than the repayment of cumulative dividends, we have not determined the specific allocation of the net proceeds of our initial public offering. Our management will have broad discretion over the use and investment of the net proceeds of our initial public, and accordingly investors will need to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to the use of proceeds, with only limited information concerning management's specific intentions. Our management may spend a portion or all of the net proceeds from this offering in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return. The failure of our management to apply the net proceeds of our initial public offering effectively could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. In addition to the effect that the concentration of ownership by our officers, directors and significant stockholders may have, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws which became effective upon completion of our initial public offering on February 7, 2011 contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change of control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions, to be set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws that became effective upon the completion of our initial public offering on February 7, 2011, include: •our board of directors will be authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; •advance notice will be required of stockholders to nominate candidates to serve on our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; •stockholder action by written consent will be prohibited; 42 Table of Contents •special meetings of the stockholders will be permitted to be called only by a majority of our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our chief executive officer; •stockholders will not be permitted to cumulate their votes for the election of directors; •newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or vacancies on our board of directors will be filled only by majority vote of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum is then in office; •our board of directors will be expressly authorized to modify, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and •stockholders will be permitted to amend our amended and restated bylaws only upon receiving at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 