Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Energy Business — A European Commission challenge to Italian regulations on hydroelectric concessions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Five regional governments in Italy and the local authorities of the region of Trentino Alto Adige have brought proceedings against these amended regulations in front of Italy’s Constitutional Court, seeking the reinstitution of the original expiry dates for operations they control. A ruling from the Constitutional Court is not expected before the end of 2006. Taxes Since January 1, 2001, consumers of electricity services have been subject to three indirect taxes, the first two of which are not applicable to residential customers whose consumption is below certain specified thresholds, qualifying them for a social protection scheme: • A state tax for residential uses (of €0.0047/kWh) and for other uses (of €0.0031/kWh excluding users with consumption over 1.2 GWh per month); • Additional local taxes that vary from €0.0093/kWh up to a maximum of €0.0204/kWh; and • Value-added tax of 20% for all users with the exception of residential and industrial customers (who are taxed at a rate of 10%). 68 Table of Contents Gas Regulation Italian regulations enacted in May 2000 pursuant to EU Directive 98/30, which mandated the general liberalization of natural gas markets in the member states, seek to introduce competition into the Italian natural gas market through the liberalization of the import, export, transport, dispatching, distribution and sale of gas. In 2007, the Italian government may enact more regulations to foster competition in the Italian natural gas market pursuant to EU Directive 2003/55. Gas Eligible and Non-Eligible Customers Until December 31, 2002, only certain large consumers known as Gas Eligible Customers, were able to freely choose their supplier of natural gas. During the same period, customers, mainly residential, who did not qualify as Gas Eligible Customers, which we refer to as Gas Non-Eligible Customers, were obliged to purchase gas from distributors operating in their local area at a tariff set by the Energy Authority. Since January 1, 2003, all customers have had direct access to the natural gas system and the right to freely choose their natural gas supplier. However, natural gas suppliers and distributors are still subject to regulation with respect to the tariffs they may charge customers who were considered Gas Non-Eligible Customers at that date. Our management believes that to date only a few Gas Non-Eligible Customers have switched their natural gas supplier. Please see “— Distribution Tariffs and Sale Tariffs for Gas Non-Eligible Customers” below. Transport and Storage Companies engaged in the transport and dispatching of gas must allow access to their gas transport networks to third parties, provided that they have enough capacity and that granting such access is economically and technically feasible. The Energy Authority establishes transport fees based on proposals from the individual operators. Operators of natural gas storage facilities must obtain a concession from the Ministry of Productive Activities and are required to provide storage services to third parties upon request, provided that they have enough capacity and that giving such storage services is economically and technically feasible. In addition, importers are required to maintain storage reserves equal to 10% of the gas they import from countries outside the EU. Distribution and Sale of Gas The term distribution refers to the transport of gas through local networks for delivery to customer premises. Since January 1, 2002, gas distribution activities may be carried out only by companies that are not otherwise engaged in the natural gas industry, and gas sales to end users may be made only by companies that are not otherwise engaged in the natural gas industry except as importers, producers or wholesalers. The Marzano Law provides incentives for investment in new natural gas pipelines and LNG regasification terminals by exempting the investing entity from the obligation to provide third-party access up to 80% of the storage capacity of new storage facilities for a period of not less than 20 years. We expect these investment incentives eventually to lead to increased competition in the gas distribution storage sector. Restrictions on Sale and Imports of Gas The sale of gas to end users is made under an authorization granted by the Ministry of Productive Activities, which both Enel Gas and Enel Trade have obtained. Enel Trade is also authorized to import gas to be sold to power plants and wholesalers. Each year from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2010, no single operator has been allowed to hold a market share higher than 50% of domestic sales to final customers. In 2004, based on data provided by the Energy Authority, Enel Gas had a market share in sales of natural gas to final customers of approximately 14%. In addition, no single operator is allowed to introduce imported or national gas into the domestic transmission grid in a quantity exceeding a specified percentage of the total, set at 75% in 2002 and decreasing by two percentage points each year thereafter, to 61% in 2010. The applicable percentage is calculated net of quantities of gas consumed by the relevant operator or by its controlled or affiliated companies. 69 Table of Contents Rules Governing Distribution of Gas Under Italian regulations, distributors operate under concessions awarded by local authorities pursuant to tender procedures for periods not longer than 12 years. Through service agreements, local authorities may regulate the terms and conditions for the provision of the service and the quality objectives to be achieved. The tenders are awarded based on financial terms, quality and safety standards, investment plans and technological and management skills offered. Distributors are required to connect to the distribution network any customer who so requests. Prior to enactment of the Marzano Law, gas distribution concessions awarded prior to May 2000 by means other than competitive tender expired by law at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2005, with the expiration date extendible for up to five years under certain conditions. The Marzano Law, as interpreted by the Ministry of Productive Activities in November 2004, provided instead that the expiration date of these gas distribution concessions are to expire at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2007, with the expiration date extendible for up to five years under certain conditions. However, certain local authorities have passed measures that would terminate gas distribution concessions in their jurisdictions on December 31, 2005. The Italian administrative courts before which these measures have been challenged disagreed with the Ministry of Productive Activities’s interpretation of the Marzano Law. To remedy the resulting uncertainty, on February 23, 2006, the Italian parliament approved a law confirming that gas distribution concessions expire by law at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2007, but extended the expiration date to December 31, 2009 under certain conditions. Local authorities may further extend the expiration date by one year. Furthermore, certain gas distribution concessions for southern Italy, partially financed through public funds under a public incentives plan of the use of natural gas in the south of Italy, expire at the later of June 21, 2012 or twelve years from the entry into force of their approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Finally, gas distribution concessions awarded prior to May 2000 by competitive tender expire at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2012. The majority of our existing gas distribution concessions are currently due to expire on December 31, 2009. Distribution Tariffs and Sales Tariffs for Gas Non-Eligible Customers In December 2000, pursuant to Italian regulations, the Energy Authority identified tariff criteria that we and other gas distributors and suppliers must apply in setting tariffs for the distribution and supply of gas to Gas Non-Eligible Customers. The tariff criteria for both distribution and supply include a fixed and a variable component reflecting the balance between fixed and variable costs incurred by distributors and suppliers, respectively, and operate to impose a cap on the rates gas distributors and suppliers may charge. The portion of the variable component in the sale tariff relating to the cost of natural gas is revised on a quarterly basis. For distributors, the tariff criteria generally take into account average capital costs, as determined by the Energy Authority based on a sample of selected operators. However, since June 2002, the Energy Authority has permitted distributors to set their rates based on actually incurred capital costs if such costs can be adequately proven. The Energy Authority has issued new distribution tariffs for the period October 2004 through September 2008. However, in February 2005, the Administrative Tribunal of Lombardy annulled these new tariffs. As a consequence, pending action from the Energy Authority to revise the tariff mechanism, the old tariffs remain applicable. In any event, we do not expect any such revisions to have a material impact on our gas business going forward and, should the new tariffs require adjustments, we will be entitled to modify customers’ bills accordingly. From 2004, distributors are also bound by regulations concerning quality of service. So far, the Energy Authority has introduced both penalties for distributors that do not comply with applicable quality of service targets and incentives to achieve higher safety standards. For suppliers, prices charged to Gas Non-Eligible Customers were supposed to be freely set from January 1, 2003. However, in December 2002, the Energy Authority imposed a transitory regime under which suppliers were obliged to continue to supply former Gas Non-Eligible Customers using the tariff criteria established by the 70 Table of Contents Energy Authority and in effect at December 31, 2002, if the Gas Non-Eligible Customers so requested. Pursuant to these criteria, the Energy Authority updates the tariffs on a quarterly basis. In March 2006, the Energy Authority established the tariffs applicable from April 1, 2006 to June 30, 2006. In December 2004, the Energy Authority revised the tariff criteria for former Gas Non-Eligible Customers in order to reduce the effect of fuel price increases on gas prices. In June 2005, the Administrative Tribunal of Lombardy annulled the Energy Authority’s decision in a series of judgments. However, in March 2006 the Council of State overruled one of these judgments and by June 2007 it should rule on the validity of the others. Should the Energy Authority decide to restore the revised tariff criteria, our tariff revenues would be considerably reduced. Gas Emergency In early 2006, Italy suffered a gas shortage, due to an increase of gas demand and a reduction of gas imports, which significantly diminished available gas stocks. As a result, the Italian government issued a decree aimed at reducing gas consumption by power generators. The Energy Authority is currently responsible for establishing adequate compensation to cover any additional costs incurred by power generators as a result of this decree. Environmental Matters Our electricity and other operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation, including laws adopted by the Italian parliament or government to implement regulations and directives adopted by the European Union and international agreements on the environment. The principal objective of our environmental policy is to comply with all relevant legislation and to seek to reduce adverse effects that our activities may have on the environment. Since 1996, we have taken the initiative of publishing an annual environmental report. In 2002, we also started publishing a sustainability report, which contains an environmental section. We believe that environmental performance will represent an increasingly important competitive factor in a liberalized market. Environmental regulations affecting our business primarily relate to air emissions, water pollution, waste disposal, noise and the clean up of contaminated sites. The principal air emissions of fossil-fueled electricity generation that pollute the atmosphere are sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate matter. A primary focus of the environmental regulations applicable to our business is an effort to reduce these emissions. We have also given particular attention to seeking to minimize the impact of electromagnetic fields and carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. Electromagnetic Fields The Italian government adopted regulations in 1992 and 1995 relating to exposure to electromagnetic fields applicable to low frequency infrastructure, such as that used for the transmission, distribution and consumption of electricity. These regulations set two types of limits: maximum levels of exposure to electromagnetic fields from new and existing transmission and distribution lines and distribution substations, and minimum distances between transmission or high-voltage distribution lines or substations and residential buildings, office buildings and similarly habited areas for lines built after the adoption of the 1992 regulation. In February 2001, the Italian parliament passed a framework law on electromagnetic field exposure amending these earlier regulations. The 2001 law is intended to protect the general public and workers against alleged potential long-term health effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields generated by both low frequency and high-frequency infrastructures. The law has made it more difficult to install new transmission and distribution lines and substations. Furthermore, the 2001 law provides for the adoption and implementation of programs to restructure electricity transmission and distribution lines, substations and high frequency infrastructures, in accordance with maximum exposure levels. In 2003, two governmental decrees were enacted providing for measures to implement the 2001 law and setting maximum exposure levels, precaution levels and quality targets. However, these 71 Table of Contents measures have not yet taken effect, as they require action from the Italian Authority for Environmental Protection that has not yet been taken. We believe that the costs of complying with these measures, including costs for the related restructuring described above, will not have a material impact on our results of operations. Moreover, because of the 2005 and 2006 disposal of all but 5.12% of our stake in Terna, which owns over 90% of Italy’s power transmission lines, we are no longer materially affected by regulations relating to electricity transmission. Currently, we only own power lines for the distribution of electricity. CO2 Emissions Both the European Union and Italy are signatories to the Kyoto Protocol, which was signed under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In accordance with a burden-sharing agreement among EU member states, Italy has set a target to reduce emissions of CO2 and the other GHGs listed in the Kyoto Protocol over the 2008-2012 period by 6.5% from their 1990 levels. As of 2004, we produced approximately 11% of total GHG emissions in Italy. In implementing the Kyoto protocol, on November 19, 1998, the Italian inter-ministerial committee for economic planning issued the guidelines for Italian policies and measures for the reduction of GHG emissions in order to implement the Kyoto Protocol. These guidelines, which were updated in 2002, set targets for CO2 and other GHG emissions to be achieved through measures concerning various sectors of the Italian economy, including a reduction of carbon produced in thermal electricity generation, an increased use of electricity generation from renewable resources and demand-side management to increase the efficiency of energy use. Furthermore, the guidelines promote certain projects aimed at the development of so called clean energy. In July 2000, we signed a voluntary undertaking with the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Productive Activities to reduce the annual level of CO2 emissions produced by our plants during the period between 2002 and 2006 from our level of emissions in 1990. The undertaking anticipates a number of measures to reduce GHGs emissions, including employing high-efficiency technologies, such as CCGT conversions, promoting the use of renewable resources and developing innovative generation technologies. In January 1999, the Italian government introduced a carbon tax in accordance with European Union directives. The carbon tax is designed to reduce Italy’s CO2 emissions so as to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. Under the current Italian legislation, the amount of the tax, which is based on fossil fuel consumption, although initially scheduled to increase on an annual basis from 1999 through 2005, has been frozen at the level for 1999. The relevant EU directives provide for a periodic review of this tax, including its possible abolition. We and other European electricity companies believe that, with the introduction of the emission trading rules in January 2005, the carbon tax should have been abolished in order to avoid market distortion and double taxation since both this tax and the emission trading rules have the objective of reducing CO2 emissions to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. In the period between 2003 and 2005, our carbon tax liability decreased from approximately €40 million in 2003 and 2004 to €37 million in 2005. With a view to ensuring compliance with the Kyoto Protocol, in 2003 the EU adopted an Emission Trading Directive establishing a scheme for GHG emission allowance trading. Italian legislation partly implementing this directive came into force at the end of 2004. In October 2004, the EU also passed another directive (the so-called “linking directive”), which amended the Emission Trading Directive to allow the use of other flexible mechanisms for limiting GHG emissions. The Legislative Decree fully implementing the EU legislation on emission trading in Italy entered into force on June 20, 2006. The Emission Trading Directive requires that each member state submit to the European Commission a proposal on how it plans to comply with the directive’s emission limits. This proposal is to consist of an allocation plan by which each member state sets CO2 emissions thresholds for the 2005-2007 period for various industries, including the energy sector, and must provide for fines to be imposed on entities whose emissions exceed these thresholds. In 2006, the allowable levels for the 2008 to 2012 period will be established. 72 Table of Contents In July 2004, the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Productive Activities submitted to the European Commission a national allocation plan for Italy. Under the national allocation plan, the thresholds for thermal power plants would vary depending on the type of fuel burned, so as not to disadvantage plants that burn fuels such as coal, which, although generating higher levels of emissions, contribute to the stability and reliability of supply. In December 2004, the Italian government put in place the procedures necessary to authorize plants to emit GHGs and to gather the necessary information to grant emission rights. We received the relevant authorizations for our power plants in December 2004. In an amendment to the national allocation plan published on February 2005, the Enel Group was assigned emissions quotas of 54 million, 45 million and 45 million metric tons of CO2for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Viesgo Group has been assigned emission quotas for its existing installations of 3.9 million, 3.4 million and 2.65 million metric tons of CO2 for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. On May 25, 2005, the European Commission approved Italy’s national allocation plan, including, however, modifications that reduce the allowable emissions assigned to Italy by 9% (from 255 million metric tons to 232 million per year), which therefore required a revision to the February 2005 emissions quota allocations. On February 23, 2006, the Environment Ministry issued a decree establishing the emissions quotas for the Enel Group from 2005 through 2007, reducing the quotas we had been granted in February 2005 to 48.2 million, 40.5 million, 39.9 million tons of CO2 for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively. Enel’s actual emissions in 2005 were higher than the emission quotas to which its plants were entitled for that year by approximately 8 million tons in Italy and approximately 2 million tons in Spain. Our emission quotas for the years 2006 and 2007 are substantially in line with the level of emissions we are currently projecting for those years. Moreover, these quotas allocations do not include allowances reserved for new plants. The measures that we plan to implement in order to comply with the Emission Trading Directive limits and Italian implementing legislation include: • Switching fuel; • Converting existing oil-fired thermal power plants into gas-fired or high-efficiency coal-fired plants; • Increasing renewable energy capacity; and • Sourcing CO2 credits through the development of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and Joint Implemetation (JI) projects in the energy sector (in particular geothermal), investing in carbon funds and purchasing emission reductions through bilateral contracting. SO2, NOx and Other Emissions The principal EU directive on air emissions affecting the electricity industry is the large combustion plants directive (“LCPD”). The LCPD requires each EU member state to establish and implement a program of progressive reduction of total SO2 emissions and total NOx emissions from generation plants licensed before July 1, 1987, and to establish emission limits for SO2, NOx and particulate matter from individual generation plants licensed after July 1, 1987. In 2001, new, more stringent emission limits were set in an amendment to the LCPD. Limitations on plant emissions set by Italian legislation are stricter than those envisaged in the LCPD as well as in the 2001 amendment (which Italy has not yet implemented), also requiring 5-year gradual reduction targets of aggregate emissions from plants licensed prior to July 1, 1988 through the end of 2003. We achieved the required reductions in each of the years in which they were applicable, including 2003. In addition, Italy is bound by an EU directive issued in 2001 mandating that member states achieve specified reduction targets on SO2, NOx, volatile organic compounds and NH3 emissions by 2010. To this end, member states were required to establish and implement a program of emissions reduction in order to achieve the targets set in the directive. Italy is also a member of the Helsinki Protocol and the Oslo Protocol, which require signatory countries to reduce SO2 emissions, and the Sofia Protocol, which requires signatories to reduce NOx emissions. The requirements under these protocols have been reflected in Italian law. 73 Table of Contents In addition, in 1990, Italy established a regulation limiting emissions of polluting substances from thermal plants licensed before July 1, 1988 that is more strict than the LCPD and covers a much broader range of pollutants. This regulation required that individual existing thermal plants in Italy reduce emissions to levels similar to those established under the LCPD for individual plants licensed after July 1, 1988. This regulation also provided a time schedule for the implementation of environmental compliance measures at existing plants. In response to this regulation, in 1990 we implemented a significant program of environmental measures that affect our entire thermal generation operation. We submitted this program to the relevant ministries of the Italian government, including those for industry, environment and health. The program was approved and provided for modifications of both physical plant and operating practices. Enel has achieved the targets the Italian regulation provided for the implementation of these environmental compliance measures for generating facilities. We are currently in compliance with the limits set by existing legislation. We had received a derogation from the required limits with regard to our plant at Porto Tolle pending our receipt of required authorizations to effect a conversion of the plant to make it fully compliant. While this derogation expired on December 31, 2004, we expect to complete the conversion of this plant by 2011, and meanwhile are meeting the required limits at the plant through operational means. The following tables show the level of SO2 and NOx emissions from our power plants included within our present limits in the period from 2001 to 2005, and the percent reductions in the level of these emissions compared to 2000. Reductions of SO2 emissions against 2000 levels Percentage Year Metric Tons Change (In thousands) 2001 213 (11 ) 2002 187 (21 ) 2003 101 (58 ) 2004 94 (61 ) 2005 73 (69 ) Reductions of NOx emissions against 2000 levels Percentage Year Metric Tons Change (In thousands) 2001 71 (8 ) 2002 71 (9 ) 2003 62 (20 ) 2004 56 (28 ) 2005 49 (37 ) In 1997, the Italian parliament imposed a tax on total SO2 and NOx emissions from thermal plants that have a nominal capacity greater than 50 MW. These plants are the same plants as those regulated under the LCPD. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, our costs in connection with this tax were approximately €9 million, €8 million and €7 million, respectively. 74 Table of Contents PCBs and Asbestos In May 1999, the Italian government adopted a legislative decree concerning the recovery and disposal of electric transformers and other equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. The decree provides that: • electric transformers and other equipment which contains PCBs above 500 parts per million must be decommissioned or decontaminated by 2009; • equipment which contains PCBs below the limit set out above can be used until the end of its operational life; and • equipment which has been contaminated by PCBs spillage must be decommissioned by 2005. In December 2003, we adopted a disposal plan to comply with this legislation and we are delivering all of our equipment containing PCBs to companies authorized to recover and dispose of such equipment. We estimate the phasing out of the equipment containing more than 500 ppm to be completed by 2006 and the phasing out of the equipment containing less than 500 ppm by 2010. We also deliver waste products containing asbestos to specialized companies authorized to treat and dispose of asbestos. Such waste products derive from the clean up of our plants we conduct in accordance with our general maintenance and environmental clean-up programs. Water Pollution Prevention We are subject to environmental laws and regulations limiting heat and other physical and chemical characteristics of cooling water and industrial water discharges from our thermal plants and hydroelectric plants. In May 1999, the Italian parliament adopted a new law for the prevention of the pollution of fresh and salt water, which was amended in August 2000. In the same year, the EU adopted a directive to prevent water pollution. We believe that the waste water treatment facilities already in operation at our generation plants are in line with the new requirements on waste water under EU law. In April 2006, Italy implemented the EU directive on water pollution through a legislative decree, which in addition took initial steps to reorganize Italy’s environmental regulations, in this field. We do not believe that this reorganization, which will be completed through additional decrees, will materially change the obbligations to which we are subject with respect to water pollution. Solid Waste Management In February 1997, the Italian government issued a legislative decree implementing the EU directives on solid waste management. In accordance with this decree, we increased the level of recycling of our waste. In the last five years, our waste recovery rate has always exceeded 90%. Site Clearance Italian legislation provides for ground and underground inspections to evaluate the possible contamination of sites, particularly in areas declared to be of national interest, using specific chemical, physical and historical analyses. If sites we own are found to be contaminated, the current regulation requires that we undertake a program of site clearance and remediation. In that case, under new legislation, the Italian government may provide financial support for remediation with respect to contaminated sites located in areas of national interest. Our costs of compliance with these measures were €16 million in 2005. For 2006, we currently expect to spend approximately €10 million. 75 Table of Contents Landscape Safeguards We have taken the following actions to reduce the environmental impact of our power distribution lines: • re-using routes of previous power lines wherever possible; • using towers for high voltage lines whose design is aimed at reducing the environmental and aesthetic impact in non-urban areas of particular landscape value; • acting to reduce the impact of lines in environmentally sensitive or protected areas; • increasing use of underground cables in urban areas where possible; • for medium-voltage lines, placing underground cables in urban areas and aerial cables with low environmental impact in other areas with specific environmental value; and • using aerial insulated cables or underground cables in low voltage networks (at present, we have built approximately two-thirds of our network in this way). We limit our use of underground high-voltage cables to urban areas because they are significantly more expensive than aerial cables and the process of installing and operating them may involve significant logistic and environmental problems. In 2003, our medium voltage aerial insulated cables and underground cables totaled 127,987 kilometer, which represented 38.3% of our medium voltage lines, compared to 35.9% in 2000, and our low voltage aerial insulated cables and underground cables totaled 600,675 kilometer, which represented 82.5% of our low voltage lines, compared to 80.6% in 2000. In 2005, due to further work on our network, the percentage of aerial insulated cables and underground cables rose to 40% and 83% for medium and low voltage lines, respectively. Environmental Registrations, Certifications and Authorizations We have joined EMAS, a European Union initiative to implement a voluntary environmental management and registration system, which seeks to improve the level of environmental efficiency and disclosure of European industrial companies. Rules concerning EMAS are contained in an EU Regulation issued in 1993. Originally applicable only to individual sites, in 2001 the EU passed a new regulation which extended the scope of the EMAS system to groups of sites and non generation assets, such as distribution networks. In October 2004, Enel Distribuzione’s distribution network obtained ISO 14001 environmental certification. As of December 2005, generating plants that accounted for approximately 77% of our net installed generating capacity had obtained ISO 14001 certification. One hundred and thirty plants that accounted for approximately 43% of our net installed capacity have also obtained EMAS registration. EMAS registration has significant advantages in terms of the operation of our assets. In August 1999, the Italian government enacted a legislative decree implementing the 1996 EU directive on the prevention and reduction of pollution. This legislative decree requires all industrial plants to operate under a new integrated environmental license by 2007 and to make use of the best techniques available for the prevention and reduction of pollution. The new licenses set pollution limits and are reviewed every five years or at any time plants undergo significant renovation. This law, however, allows licenses for EMAS-registered plants to be reviewed every eight years (instead of five) in light of the stringent requirements that must be met to obtain EMAS registration. Cost of Compliance The costs of ensuring compliance with applicable environmental regulation generally consist of costs associated with equipping newly constructed facilities with required technology or modifying existing facilities to comply with applicable regulation. In 2005, environmental capital expenditures were equal to approximately €100 million, representing 3.1% of our total capital expenditures. In 2003 and 2004, these environmental capital expenditures totaled €131 million and €112 million, respectively, representing 3.5% and 2.9%, respectively, of our total capital expenditures. In 2005 current expenses for compliance with environmental regulations were equal to approximately €350 million, 76 Table of Contents of which we spent approximately €260 million on the purchase of ‘clean’ fuels (low-sulphur oil and natural gas) in lieu of standard fuels, when required. These amounts do not include taxes on fuels, polluting emissions and geothermal generation and possible loss of revenues due to compliance with environmental standards that limit the operation of our plants. Discontinued Nuclear Operations Since November 2000, we have not owned any nuclear power plants. We have not produced electricity from nuclear power plants in Italy since 1988. For information on the nuclear power plants we now control in Slovakia and our nuclear related initiatives in France, please see “— Nuclear Liability” below. Following a national referendum in 1987 in which the Italian electorate expressed its opposition to the use of nuclear power, the Italian government ordered the interruption of power production from nuclear fuels and we ceased operations at our four nuclear plants in Italy, which had an aggregate net installed capacity of 1,500 MW. In addition to our nuclear power plants, we owned a 33% stake in NERSA, an electricity generation company that operated a nuclear power plant located in France. French and German utilities owned the balance of NERSA. In July 1998, we sold our stake in NERSA. We, however, retained ownership and responsibility for the decommissioning of our share of the nuclear fuel in the plant. Pursuant to the Bersani Decree, we transferred our discontinued nuclear operations to So.g.i.n., then one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. The principal activity of So.g.i.n. will be the decommissioning of the nuclear plants and of our share of the nuclear fuel in the NERSA plant in France, including disposal of nuclear fuel and nuclear waste. Under the Bersani Decree, we were required to transfer to the MEF all the shares of So.g.i.n. at no cost. The transfer was completed on November 3, 2000. Nuclear Liability Italy is a party to the 1960 Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy and the 1963 Brussels Supplementary Convention. Italian law implementing the conventions imposes strict liability for claims relating to nuclear plants and the transportation and storage of nuclear matter. Strict liability under Italian law means that someone does not need to be negligent in order to be found liable. The law imposes strict liability for nuclear accidents only on the entity that is the operator of the plant at the time of the accident. Consequently, we are not liable for any accident that may occur after the transfer to the MEF of So.g.i.n.’s shares on November 3, 2000, even if the cause of the accident predates the transfer. Although we are not aware of any accident that predates the transfer, we will remain liable for any accident that occurred before the transfer, even if the damage, or the accident itself, is discovered in the future. The operator of the plant may claim reimbursement from a third party which has contributed to the cause of the accident for any sums it may have to pay but only if that party has accepted liability contractually or is a physical person who has intentionally caused the damage. Italian law implementing the conventions imposes a maximum period of ten years from the date of the accident in which someone claiming damages must bring claims. At the time of our transfer of So.g.i.n.’s shares, we represented to the Treasury that we had performed, on a regular basis, every required test on our nuclear plants and that we were not aware, with respect to all nuclear assets owned by So.g.i.n., of any event which might be the source of civil liability for nuclear operations. Under Italian law and in accordance with the Paris Convention, direct liability arising from nuclear liability claims is limited to five million International Monetary Fund Special Drawing Rights (“SDRs”) per accident. Under Italian law, to the extent any claim exceeds five million SDRs, someone claiming damages may sue us for only five million SDRs and must sue the Italian government for the excess liability up to 175 million SDRs. If the claim is in excess of 175 million SDRs, that person must sue the signatories to the conventions, but then only for the excess liability up to 300 million SDRs. However, the Italian government can claim reimbursement from us for any sums it may have to pay because of a nuclear accident arising from negligence on our part. On May 31, 2006, the value of five million SDRs equaled approximately €5.9 million. 77 Table of Contents A provision of the Italian law implementing the conventions states that when damage has been caused concurrently by a nuclear accident and the emission of ionizing radiation, the liability of the person that caused this radiation is not subject to the limitations described above for damages caused by that emission. This provision does not fully conform to the conventions because it does not specify that the ionizing radiation must not independently qualify as a nuclear accident in order to give rise to unlimited liability. We believe, however, that the correct interpretation of Italian law implementing the conventions is that only radiation not classified as a nuclear accident gives rise to liability outside the limitations described above. We believe all emissions of radiation originating from within nuclear plants would qualify as nuclear accidents. As a consequence, because we held nuclear material inside our plants, we believe that we could only be liable for amounts beyond the limitations described above under remote circumstances. In April 2006, we finalized the acquisition of 66% of Slovenske Elektrarne, the major generating company in Slovakia, which owns nuclear power plants. Slovakia is a party to the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damages, under which operators of nuclear installations are subject to strict liability of at least $5 million which may be claimed for a period of ten years from the date of the nuclear incident, except when national legislation provides for different limits or longer periods. Slovakian law provides for a €75 million maximum liability for the operation of nuclear power plants (€50 million for the transportation of nuclear materials) and a 20-year limit from the date of the nuclear incident for the right to compensation. We have purchased insurance coverage for claims up to ten years through the insurance market and are seeking additional coverage for claims arising after ten years. On May 30, 2005, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with EDF regarding an industrial partnership that would permit us to invest in the French electricity market, including in EDF’s latest generation European Pressurized Water Reactor, or “EPR,” nuclear power plant project. Under the memorandum of understanding, EDF will be the operator of the power plant, and will bear any related nuclear civil liability. For additional information, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Generation and Energy Management — International Generation.” Property, Plants and Equipment At December 31, 2005, we had 761 generating plants, consisting of thermal, hydroelectric, geothermal and other renewable resources facilities, 599 of which were located in Italy. For further information with respect to our plants, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Generation and Energy Management.” We own the principal electricity distribution network in Italy, which consisted, at December 31, 2005, of a total of 1,090,129 kilometer of lines, mostly medium and low voltage, and 413,429 primary and secondary transformer substations. For a description of such properties and related construction, expansion and improvement plans, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Capital Investment Program — Sales, Infrastructure and Networks.” At December 31, 2005, we owned real estate, mainly in Italy, with an approximate net book value of €872 million, consisting mainly of office buildings and other commercial properties and to a lesser extent residential real estate. For a description of our real estate properties and activities, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Services and Other Activities — Real Estate and Other Services.” Management believes that our significant properties are in good condition and that they are adequate to meet our needs. ITEM 4A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Summary of Results Following the coming into force of European Regulation No. 1606 dated July 2002, we and other EU companies whose securities are traded on regulated markets in the EU are required to adopt IFRS (known as international accounting standards, or IAS, until May 2002) in the preparation of our 2005 consolidated financial 78 Table of Contents statements. Our financial statements for the period ending December 31, 2005, were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Standards introduced prior to the renaming of IAS as IFRS are still referred to as IAS; we refer to the combined body of IAS and IFRS standards as IFRS. You should read note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our transition to International Financial Reporting Standards. In 2005, our consolidated operating revenues increased by €3,048 million, or 9.8%, from €31,011 million in 2004 to €34,059 million in 2005. Our operating expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization and impairment increased by €3,374 million, or 14.7%, from €22,940 million in 2004 to €26,314 million in 2005. Our operating income decreased by €332 million, or 5.7%, from €5,870 million in 2004 to €5,538 million in 2005. Our financial income (expense) and income (expense) from investments decreased by €113 million, or 13.7%, from €827 million in 2004 to €714 million in 2005. Our income (expense) from investments accounted for using the equity method increased by €5 million, or 20.0%, from €25 million in 2004 to €30 million in 2005. Our net income, including discontinued operations, increased by €1,385 million, or 50.4%, from €2,747 million in 2004 to €4,132 million in 2005 (while our income from continuing operations decreased by €42 million, or 1.4%, from €2,902 million in 2004 to €2,860 million in 2005). Our principal measure of liquidity is net financial indebtedness, which was €12,312 million at December 31, 2005, as compared to €24,514 million at December 31, 2004. Net financial indebtedness is a non-GAAP measure; cash at banks and marketable securities, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, was €508 million at December 31, 2005, as compared to €363 million at December 31, 2004. Please see “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — Capital Resources” for a reconciliation of net financial indebtedness to cash at banks and marketable securities. As of December 31, 2005, we had 51,778 employees, as compared to 61,898 as of December 31, 2004. The Electricity Market Regulatory Framework Overview Our financial results have been and will be affected to a large extent by the developments in the regulatory framework for the Italian electricity market, which was first opened to competition by the Bersani Decree in 1999 and has been subsequently further liberalized by EU and national legislation. The Bersani Decree also provided for the first time that certain customers, also known as Eligible Customers, could freely choose their supplier and buy electricity on the free market at negotiated prices. This freedom was progressively extended, from customers with high consumption thresholds, to all non-residential customers as of July 1, 2004. In 2007, all customers will become Eligible Customers. Currently, Non-Eligible Customers must purchase electricity from their local distribution company. The price of electricity for Non-Eligible Customers is set by the Energy Authority. On April 1, 2004, the Italian power exchange, a virtual marketplace for the trading of electricity, started operations. The Single Buyer, a state-owned entity entrusted with the responsibility of purchasing all of the electricity to be supplied to the regulated market, also started operations on that date. Please see “— Comparability of Information — Regulatory and Other Developments” for a description of the impact of the start of operation of the Italian power exchange and the Single Buyer on our results in 2004. Since the start of the liberalization of the market, the Energy Authority, the Antitrust Authority and the European Commission have adopted several measures to further competition and constantly monitor the market in order to reduce the risk of abuses of market power. Furthermore, under the Bersani Decree, no single company or group could have more than a 50% market share of the electricity generation and import market after January 1, 2003, a limit which resulted in our sale of the Gencos. In light of Italian laws and regulations providing for the reunification of the ownership and management of the Italian transmission grid and imposing certain ownership restrictions on the entity that owns and manages it, we disposed of most of our interest in Terna during 2005, and now hold only 5.12% of Terna’s share capital. You 79 Table of Contents should read “