Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, consolidated financial condition and cash flows. Energizer may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports it files with the SEC in the future. Energizer faces risks associated with global economic conditions. In general, Energizer’s financial results can be significantly affected by negative economic conditions, inflationary or deflationary pressures, high labor or material and commodity costs, and unforeseen changes in consumer demand or buying patterns. These general risks were heightened recently as economic conditions globally deteriorated significantly and the recovery in most developed markets remains sluggish. Such economic conditions could have potentially significant impacts on employment levels and consumer demand in many countries where Energizer operates, with a direct impact on our sales, profitability and our ability to generate sufficient internal cash flows or access credit at reasonable rates in order to meet future operating expenses, fund capital expenditures or repay debt as it becomes due. The recent economic conditions caused a number of our retailer customers to reduce their inventories and more critically analyze their inventory management and product offerings, including possibly shifting purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private label. Similar retailer customer activity could negatively impact Energizer’s operating results. In addition, declining financial performance by certain of our retailer customers could impact their ability to pay us on a timely basis, or at all. Increasing retailer customer concentration on a global scale could result in reduced sales outlets for our products, greater negotiating pressures on Energizer, and global pricing requirements across markets. Future unfavorable economic conditions may impact Energizer’s earnings performance and our opportunities to reduce discretionary spending may be limited. Any reductions in discretionary spending may have a greater than anticipated negative impact on future sales or brand equity. Energizer’s failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and grow our business. Energizer’s current debt level remains at almost $2.3 billion. Over the next twelve months, we have almost $300 million of scheduled debt maturities. Our current debt structure, consisting of unsecured notes, revolving credit facilities and a term loan with leading financial institutions, all of which are subject to certain debt ratio covenants, and a receivables securitization facility, subjects us to certain risks, including concerns over the volatility of the credit markets. Future declines in our operating cash flows or earnings performance, foreign currency movements, or other unanticipated events, could negatively impact our ability to reduce outstanding debt as planned, and could hinder our ability to remain in compliance with our debt covenants. In addition, Energizer is subject to interest rate risk for $178.4 million of indebtedness, as adjusted to reflect the impact of existing interest rate hedgin g contracts, and would be subject to increased interest payments if LIBOR, which is currently at relatively low levels, increases. In the event of default under our credit facilities, it is likely that we would be required to seek amendments or waivers under the credit agreements and the private placement note agreements, or to refinance the debt, in whole or in part. Our ability to secure such amendments or waivers, or to refinance the debt, would depend on conditions in the credit markets and our financial condition at the time. There is no assurance that we could obtain such amendments or waivers or effect such refinancing. If amendments, waivers or refinancing were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on terms and conditions similar to our current debt structure. Based on the current credit markets, a refinancing at this time may be unfavorable as compared to our current debt package. Other adverse consequences could include: a significant portion of Energizer’s cash from operations could be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which could reduce the funds available for operations; the level of our debt could leave Energizer vulnerable in a period of significant economic downturn; Energizer may not be financially able to withstand significant and sustained competitive pressures; and our inability to renew our revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in May 2011. Energizer’s indebtedness contains various covenants which limit management’s discretion in the operation of the business and the failure to comply with such covenants could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit agreements and the agreements governing our private placement notes contain various restrictive covenants and financial ratio requirements. These requirements could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to debt repayment, thereby reducing funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have greater financial flexibility; and limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of these agreements may result in an event of default. An event of default may allow the lenders, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, the credit agreement lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Economic conditions and disruption in the credit markets could impede Energizer’s ability to successfully access capital markets and ensure adequate liquidity. Credit market disruptions could increase our cost of borrowing or affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. If we are not able to access debt capital markets at competitive rates or terms and conditions, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy will be negatively affected. In addition, Energizer’s receivables securitization facility is subject to annual renewal by participating financial institutions, and the failure to renew this facility at sufficient funding levels in future years could require us to increase borrowings through debt facilities, which are subject to our debt ratio covenants, increasing the potential for non-compliance with those covenants. If Energizer cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, it may not be able to compete effectively. The battery, portable lighting products, wet shave, skin care, feminine care and infant care industries have been notable for the pace of innovations in product life, product design and applied technology. Energizer and our competitors have made, and continue to make, investments in research and development with the goal of further innovation. The successful development and introduction of new products and line extensions face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors, as well as the possibility of cannibalization of sales of our existing products. In addition, our ability to create new products and line extensions and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can: develop and fund research and technological innovations, receive and maintain necessary intellectual property protections, obtain governmental approvals and registrations, comply with governmental regulations, and anticipate consumer needs and preferences successfully. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our businesses and any delay in the development or launch of a new product could also compromise our competitive position. If competitors introduce new or enhanced products that significantly outperform Energizer’s, or if they develop or apply manufacturing technology which permits them to manufacture at a significantly lower cost relative to ours, we may be unable to compete successfully in the market segments affected by these changes. Competition in Energizer’s industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers. The industries in which Energizer operates, including battery, portable lighting products, wet shave, skin care, feminine care and infant care, are highly competitive, both in the United States and on a global basis, as a limited number of large manufacturers compete for consumer acceptance and limited retail shelf space. As product placement, facings and shelf-space are at the sole discretion of our retailer customers, and often impacted by competitive activity, the visibility and availability of our full portfolio of products can be limited. Our retailer customers have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms, and because of the highly competitive environment in which we operate as well as increasing retailer concentration, their efforts can be successful, resulting in either reduction of our margins, or our relative disadvantage to lower cost competitors. Competitors may also be able to obtain exclusive distribution at particular retailers, or favorable in-store placement, resulting in a negative impact on our sales. Competition is based upon brand perceptions, product performance and innovation, customer service and price. Energizer’s ability to compete effectively may be affected by a number of factors: Energizer’s primary competitor in batteries, wet shave and feminine care products, The Procter & Gamble Company, has substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources and greater market share in certain segments than Energizer does, as well as significant scale and negotiating leverage with retailers; Energizer’s competitors may have lower production, sales and distribution costs, and higher profit margins, than Energizer, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering retail discounts and other promotional incentives; loss of key retailer customers to competitors may erode Energizer’s market share; and the level and nature of advertising and promotional spending by Energizer could impact consumer demand, retailer decisions regarding our product offerings, limit our access to shelf space, and hinder our ability to expand distribution to new retailer customers. In addition, private label brands sold by retail chains, which are typically sold at lower prices, are an increasing source of competition. Our ability to compete in the industries in which we operate is directly dependent upon the continuing reputation and success of our brands, particularly the Energizer, Schick, Wilkinson Sword, Edge, Skintimate, Playtex, Diaper Genie, Wet Ones, Banana Boat and Hawaiian Tropic brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or new product offerings do not have the desired impact on our brand’s image or ability to attract consumers. Further our operating results could be adversely affected if one of our leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues. Category growth and performance of the product categories in which we compete may be impacted by changes in technology and device trends, which could directly impair Energizer’s operating results and growth prospects. We believe an increasing number of devices are using built-in rechargeable battery systems, particularly in developed markets. We believe this continues to create a negative impact on the demand for primary batteries. This trend, coupled with volatile commodity markets and aggressive competitive activity in the U.S. and other markets, could put additional pressure on segment results going forward. Development and commercialization of new battery or personal care technologies not available to Energizer could also negatively impact our results and prospects. Changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair Energizer’s international operations and financial performance. Energizer’s businesses are currently conducted on a worldwide basis, with almost half of our sales in fiscal 2010 arising from foreign countries, and a significant portion of our production capacity located overseas. Consequently, Energizer is subject to a number of significant risks associated with our subsidiaries doing business in foreign countries, including: the effect of foreign income and withholding taxes and other restrictions on the flow of capital between countries; the U.S. tax treatment of foreign source income and losses; social legislation in certain countries, which can significantly impact the expenses associated with business rationalizations; the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls; adverse changes in local investment or exchange control regulations; hyperinflationary conditions in certain economies; political or economic instability, government nationalization of business or industries, government corruption, and civil unrest; legal and regulatory constraints; tariffs and other trade barriers; and difficulty in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights. Currency fluctuations may significantly increase Energizer’s expenses and affect the results of operations as well as the carrying value of international assets on the balance sheet, especially where the currency is subject to intense political and other outside pressure. Almost 50% of Energizer’s sales in fiscal 2010 were denominated in local currencies but reported in U.S. dollars, and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to such currencies can negatively impact our reported sales and operating profits. Additionally, while sales are made in local currency, a high percentage of product costs for our foreign operations are denominated in U.S. dollars. The recent economic crises revealed that exchange rates can be highly volatile. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which Energizer and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market and the relative prices at which Energizer purchases materials and services in foreign markets. There can be no assurance that the U.S. dollar foreign exchange rates will be stable in the future or that fluctuations in such rates will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes in raw material costs or disruptions in the supply of raw materials could erode Energizer’s profit margins and negatively impact manufacturing output and operating results. Pricing and availability of raw materials for use in our businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, substantial increases in the cost of a number of raw materials have been partially offset by price increases. However, there is no certainty that Energizer will be able to offset future increases in raw material prices, especially given the competitive environment. In addition, the supply of certain raw materials can be significantly d isrupted by labor activity, political conflict, and disruptions to sourcing or transportation activities, which could impact our manufacturing output. Energizer has a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which, if they became impaired would result in a reduction in net income. Current accounting standards require that intangible assets with indefinite lives be periodically evaluated for impairment. Declines in our profitability and/or estimated cash flows related to specific intangible assets, as well as potential changes in market valuations for similar assets and market discount rates may negatively impact the fair value of these intangible assets and other long-lived assets, which could result in an impairment charge. These charges may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability. Wal-Mart, together with its subsidiaries, is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 20.1% of net sales in fiscal 2010. Generally, sales to Wal-Mart and our other top customers are made pursuant to purchase orders and we do not have supply agreements or guarantees of minimum purchases from them. As a result, these customers may cancel their purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us at any time. The loss or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by Wal-Mart or any of our other top customers would harm our sales and profitability. Energizer’s businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, advertising and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and abroad. This regulation includes, but is not limited to, the following: in the U.S., a number of our products and their manufacture are subject to regulation and review and/or approval by the Food and Drug Administration as well as by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency; in the U.S., claims and advertising with respect to our products are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission; our operations are subject to taxation by federal, state, local and foreign taxing authorities; in foreign countries where we manufacture or sell our products, we are subject to similar regulation, and in the U.S. by state and local authorities; and our selling practices are regulated by competition authorities in the U.S. and abroad. A finding that we are in violation of, or not in compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions, which could be material. Even if a claim is unsuccessful, is not merited or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could jeopardize our reputation and brand image. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenses and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations, including remediation costs relating to our current and former properties and third party waste disposal sites. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operation s or financial condition. While we believe we have obtained the necessary regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell our currently marketed products, new or more restrictive regulations or more restrictive interpretations of existing regulations could have an adverse impact on our businesses. The Food and Drug Administration is considering a monograph which would establish testing and labeling requirements for sunscreen products. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is expected to release a final rule on the sunscreen monograph, which may include changes on such elements as usage, active ingredients, testing and product labeling. While we are unable to estimate the costs of compliance with any new changes in the regulations at this time, the increased cost to comply with the regulations could be significant to Energizer. Energizer’s manufacturing facilities or supply channels may be subject to disruption from events beyond our control. We currently operate a number of manufacturing and packaging facilities worldwide for our Household Products and Personal Care businesses. Operations at such facilities may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including: availability of raw materials; work stoppages or other labor disputes; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; disruptions in logistics; loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; raw material and product quality or safety issues; licensing requirements and other regulatory issues; and acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. There is a possibility that third party manufacturers, which produce a significant portion of certain of our products, could discontinue production with little or no advance notice, or experience financial problems or problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery, resulting in manufacturing delays or disruptions, regulatory sanctions, product liability claims or consumer complaints. Although we have contingency plans in place, and our multiple facilities and third-party suppliers can provide alternative sources of product supply in the event of manufacturing disruptions, if a major disruption were to occur, it could result in delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations. Energizer’s business involves the potential for product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Although we maintain product liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Additionally, we do not maintain product recall insurance. As a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face potential exposure to unusual or significant litigation arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. However, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. We do not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in our products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. As a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The level of returns on pension plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect Energizer’s earnings and cash flows, and changes in government regulations could impact expenses and funding requirements of such plans. The funding obligations for Energizer’s pension and postretirement plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity and debt markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the market value of assets and liabilities based on the interest rate environment on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the expected long-term returns on invested assets, we could be required to make significant pension contributions. The equity and debt markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements by adding volatility to the calculation of the pension liability. An adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. Assumptions used in determining benefit liabilities and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by Energizer in consultations with outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on assets, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. The resolution of Energizer’s tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, and/or tax rates may increase, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations. Energizer is subject to income tax in the U.S. and numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provisions for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse impact on future operating results. Our effective tax rate in any year can be significantly impacted by legislative or regulatory changes by taxing authorities, as well as by the profitability or losses of Energizer's various subsidiary operations in both high-tax and low-tax countries. If Energizer fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. Energizer relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, our trademarks are of material importance to our business and are among our most important assets. In fiscal 2010, substantially all of our total revenues were from products bearing proprietary trademarks and brand names. Accordingly, our future success may depend, in part, upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and brand names. In addition, Energizer owns or licenses from third parties a considerable number of patents, patent applications and other technology which Energizer believes are significant to our business. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that Energizer will not be able to obtain and perfect or maintain our own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and Energizer could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to defend our intellectual property rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which Energizer’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties infringe our intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with our brands and harm our sales. The failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make Energizer less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits. We have completed four significant acquisitions since becoming an independent company in 2000. We expect to continue making acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. Furthermore, our existing operations may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Even if we can complete future acquisitions, we face significant challenges in consolidating functions and effectively integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process can be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to our existing and acquired businesses, and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, those businesses. Even if we can successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, there is no assurance that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or revenue enhancements will be realized within the expected time frame, or at all. The integration of Energizer’s and ASR’s businesses may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the acquisition may not be realized. The recent acquisition of ASR will require a significant amount of time and attention as well as financial resources to the process of integrating the operations of Energizer’s business and ASR’s business. We may be unable to integrate the ASR business into our operations in an efficient, timely and effective manner. All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees with needed expertise to integrate the two businesses or to operate the combined company’s business. Furthermore, ASR offers private label products, a product group in which we have limited experience. Even if we are able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits that are currently expected to result from the acquisition, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. The benefits of the acquisition may also be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity pricing, or in increased competition, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the combined company’s private label and branded products. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. In November 2010, we announced initiatives to restructure our Household Products business with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. The process of restructuring could entail, among other activities, moving production between facilities, closing facilities, reducing the level of staff, realigning our business processes and reorganizing our overhead structure. We continuously evaluate our operations and cost structure relative to general economic conditions, market demands, cost competitiveness and our geographic footprint as it relates to our production requirements. As a result of this ongoing evaluation, we initiated the restructuring discussed above. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments” included in Exhibit 13 attached hereto. If we incur unexpected charges related to the restructuring, or in connection with any potential future restructuring program, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, delays encountered in finalizing the scope of, and implementing, the restructurings, the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur. These risks are further complicated by our extensive international operations, which subject us to different legal and regulatory requirements that govern the extent and speed, of our ability to reduce our manufacturing capacity and workforce. In addition, the current global economic conditions may change how governments regulate restructuring as t he recent global recession has impacted local economies. Additional descriptions of risk factors impacting Energizer appearing under “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION” are included in Exhibit 13 attached hereto, which will also appear in the Energizer Holdings, Inc. 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 