D. Risk Factors If you are considering purchasing our ordinary shares, preference shares or American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"), you should carefully read and consider all the information contained in this document, including the risk factors set out below, prior to making any investment decision. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the value and trading price of our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs may decline, resulting in a loss of all or a part of any investment in our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs. Furthermore, the risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk factors which are not currently known or are currently believed to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis Uncertainty resulting from the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis is having and is likely to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the financial year ended December 31, 2012, 44.1% of the Group's net interest income before provision for loan losses as of December 31, 2012, 66.0% of our loans, were derived from our operations in the Hellenic Republic. In addition, following the completion of the PSI in March and April 2012 and the debt buyback program in December 2012, our holdings of EUR 5.0 billion in Greek government bonds and Greek treasury bills represented, as of December 31, 2012, 5.0% of our total assets and 41.0% of our trading and investment fixed income portfolio. Accordingly, the quality of our assets, our financial condition and our results of operations are heavily dependent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Greece. The completion of the PSI in April 2012, in conjunction with the initiation of the revised Program, which was extended up to 2016 by the Council of the European Union (the "Eurogroup") decision of November 27, 2012 and with the provisions for covering government financing gap and providing additional debt relief (see also Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis, the Successful Sovereign Debt Restructuring (PSI) the second economic adjustment program for Greece & recent macroeconomic developments" and "—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece") is expected to provide more time for economic policy to implement fiscal adjustment efforts and growth-enhancing structural reforms. At the same time, the PSI has implied a significant decline of the Greek debt burden by approximately 50% of GDP in 2012, as well as a sharp reduction in debt servicing needs through lower interest rates and a substantial extension of the average debt maturity. The successful completion of the debt buyback program in December 2012 has provided additional debt relief of at least 9.5% of GDP according to EU estimates (included in the corresponding evaluation report of December 2012), while the restructuring of interest payments to the EFSF and the further interest rate decrease of official sector loans granted to Greece has decreased the servicing cost of the Greek debt. 16 Table of Contents The Program also includes a comprehensive strategy for recapitalization of the banking system following PSI-related losses and the detrimental impact of a prolonged recession on bank loan quality. However, there can be no assurance that the implementation of the Program in accordance with its terms will obtain its stated objectives or have the anticipated effects. The Greek economy has faced and continues to face substantial macroeconomic headwinds originating from the still sizeable fiscal imbalances and government debt and compounded by other deep-rooted structural vulnerabilities, making the achievement of the targets set by the Program a challenge. More specifically: •Despite the successful completion of the debt buyback program in December 2012, the progress in fiscal deficit reduction and the adjustment in the labor market and external balance, the Greek economy continues to face substantial macroeconomic challenges, and uncertainty remains high in the face of concerns over the Hellenic Republic's potential exit from the Eurozone if the targets of the Program are not met. •The need to impose additional austerity measures in the form of additional corrective spending cuts to offset potential slippages in the implementation of the 2013 government budget—in view of the weaker than expected government revenue performance in the first quarter of 2013 and a continued drop in social security system revenue—is likely to amplify recessionary pressures, reinforcing the vicious cycle of weakening economic sentiment, declining liquidity and reduced private spending and the need for additional fiscal measures, such as those that characterized the period of 2010-2012. •The funding provided to the Hellenic Republic under the Program may be insufficient to cover the Hellenic Republic's financing needs and it is not certain whether it will be increased by its European partners and the IMF depending on Greece's performance under the Program. The current sentiment in Europe, as evidenced by recent events in Cyprus, suggest that a broader spectrum of creditors could be bailed-in to cover such financing needs. Even the prospects of such a development could be destabilizing for the Greek economy. •According to reports by the IMF, the ECB and the EU (collectively referred to as the "Troika"), Greece has little, if any, margin to absorb additional adverse shocks or slippages in the implementation of the Program. In the event that policy implementation takes longer than expected or falls short of expectations, the economy takes longer than expected to respond to labor market and other structural competitiveness-enhancing reforms, or the fiscal impact of recession is higher than estimated, the likely result would be a higher debt trajectory than that suggested by the post-PSI analysis underlying the Program. Such slippages could even outweigh the benefits from the additional debt and funding relief provided to Greece by recent Eurogroup decisions and the successful completion of the debt buyback program in December 2012. •Failure to successfully implement the Program over its term to 2016 may lead to termination of the financial support by the IMF and the EU, which would create the conditions for a new credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic debt or lead to a default by the Hellenic Republic on its debt which would include both marketable instruments and official sector loans from EU Member States. •Even if the Hellenic Republic successfully implements the Program, government debt as a percentage of GDP is projected to remain above 170% of GDP until 2015 according to IMF projections in the recent review of the revised Program, and it remains uncertain whether the Greek economy will grow sufficiently, or even limit its contraction, to ease the financing constraints of the Hellenic Republic without a new agreement with EU partners and the IMF which will provide additional debt relief with direct official sector involvement. This relief could take the form of new changes in conditions of official sector loans or further restructuring of 17 Table of Contents Greek government bonds held by the Eurosystem and a direct haircut on official sector loans or loans from the EFSF or a combination of the above. Failure to agree on a credible way to restore long-term debt sustainability and cover possible additional needs (even due to factors outside the control of the Hellenic Republic) of the country for external financing in upcoming years may result in a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic debt occurring prior to the completion of the Program. •An erosion of the cohesion of the current coalition government elected on June 17, 2012, or a shrinkage of its Parliamentary majority through the withdrawal of one of the parties currently supporting the Program, could pose significant risks to the implementation of the Program. In addition, the commitment by Member States of the Eurozone to provide long-term support to Greece on adequate terms is subject to significant risks related not only to Greece's ability to avoid any additional slippages in the implementation of the Program but also to increasing discontent of public opinion in these countries regarding support to Greece. •The large losses experienced by private creditors from the PSI exchange in conjunction with the still high level of Greek sovereign debt even after the PSI and the successful completion of the debt buyback in December 2012 (above 120% of GDP until 2020) render an improvement of market sentiment and a significant upward revision of sovereign ratings of the country highly unlikely for the short to medium term. In this respect, valuations of Hellenic Republic assets (and thus privatization revenue budgeted in the Program), as well as the ability of Greece to access the international capital markets, remain subject to substantial uncertainty. •The recovery in economic sentiment and first signs of increase in the private deposit base of the Greek banking system is recent months, could be undermined by slower progress in structural reforms, tensions in fiscal adjustment strategy and, more importantly, a new round of systemic turbulence in Euro area triggered by developments related to the eruption and management of recent crisis in Cyprus. •The bailout agreement between the Troika and Cyprus, reached on March 24, 2013, regarding financial assistance of EUR 10 billion (57% of Cyprus' GDP) is expected to weigh heavily on the real and financial conditions of the Cypriot economy in the coming years and is likely to take a toll on macroeconomic conditions in Greece due to the relatively strong interlinkages between the two economies. The recent economic turbulence and elevated uncertainty in Cyprus are expected to have a modest direct impact on Greece mainly through the external trade and foreign direct investment channels (with Greece being the largest investor in gross terms in Cyprus and Cypriot markets being a leading destination of Greek goods exports). Furthermore, the situation in Cyprus gives rise to contagion risk of a prolonged banking crisis and deep recession in Cyprus and the possibility of elevated systemic turbulence originating from the management and resolution strategy on the basis of Eurogroup decisions, with uninsured creditors/depositors and shareholders bearing an unprecedented amount of losses. For more information about the main elements of each reform and the substantial risks to the Program, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis, the Successful Sovereign Debt Restructuring (PSI) the second economic adjustment program for Greece & recent macroeconomic developments" and "—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece" The uncertainty relating to the implementation of the Program and the sovereign debt reduction has directly affected the capital levels, liquidity and profitability of the financial system of the Hellenic Republic and consequently of the Bank: •PSI-related losses have resulted in significant recapitalization needs of Greek banks, which are intended to be satisfied out of resources to be made available under the Program; 18 Table of Contents •the buyback of Greek government bonds by the Hellenic Republic in December 2012 deprives Greek banks of future income and gains from a potential increase in the fair value of the Bonds; •limited liquidity in the Greek banking system, reflecting an effective closing of private capital market financing since the end of 2009 and a sizeable contraction of the domestic deposit base since 2010 (21.7% cumulatively until December 31, 2012, according to Bank of Greece data) and a heavy reliance on Eurosystem funding; and •increased competition for, and thus cost of, customer deposits. A failure of the Program to result in a marked improvement in the Greek economy would have significant adverse consequences on the Bank. If another credit event with respect to Greek government liabilities (bonds, Treasury bills, loans with government guarantee) or an additional restructuring of Greek government liabilities were to occur, our regulatory capital would be severely affected due to our direct exposure to Hellenic Republic liabilities, requiring the Bank to raise additional capital and thus diluting existing shareholders significantly. Furthermore, there would be no assurance that the Bank could raise all of the required additional capital on acceptable terms. Recessionary pressures in Greece stemming from the Program have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities are dependent on the level of banking, finance and financial products and services we offer, as well as our customers' capacity to repay their liabilities. In particular, the levels of savings and credit demand are heavily dependent on customer confidence, employment trends and the availability and cost of funding. Following a cumulative output decline of 20% during the period 2009-2012, the decline in economic activity in 2013 is likely to exceed 4%, according to estimates of the latest EU evaluation report of the Program, taking a new toll on disposable income, spending and debt repayment capacity of the Greek private sector. A protracted period of poor economic conditions in the Hellenic Republic is materially and adversely affecting the liquidity, business activity and financial conditions of our borrowers, which in turn leads to further increases in our non-accruing loan ratios, impairment charges on our loans and other financial assets, decreased demand for borrowings in general and increasing deposit outflows. Specifically, our non-accruing ratio in Greece has increased from 15.1% at December 31, 2011 to 21.4% at December 31, 2012. Adding to the negative impact of a sharp drop in consumer and business confidence resulting from the economic crisis and ongoing sizeable macroeconomic imbalances, the additional fiscal adjustment agreed under the Program has had in 2012 and is likely to continue to have a significant negative effect on economic activity in the Hellenic Republic in the future. Loans to businesses and households have declined in 2012 and are expected to decline further in Greece as the sizeable downward pressure on household disposable incomes and firms' profitability from the austerity measures, as well as the resulting deterioration in the business environment against a backdrop of tighter credit criteria and stressed liquidity conditions, are likely to impair further demand for loans. In addition, the need to reduce our dependency on Eurosystem funding will also increase the likelihood of deleveraging. Moreover, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. In the context of continued market turmoil, worsening macroeconomic conditions and increasing unemployment, coupled with declining consumer spending and business investment and the worsening credit profile of our corporate and retail borrowers, the value of assets collateralizing our secured 19 Table of Contents loans, including houses and other real estate, could decline further significantly. Such decline could result in impairment of the value of our loan assets or an increase in the level of past due loans, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Finally, if the Program is not implemented successfully—especially with respect to the structural reform agenda—or if additional austerity measures beyond those agreed to in the Program are required to counterbalance potential deviations from the Program's targets, economic activity may register a sharper than expected drop in 2013, as it did in 2011 and 2012, resulting in a further delayed recovery and a further adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a recipient of state aid, the Bank's operational autonomy is constrained. The recapitalization of the Greek banks, even before its completion, due to the receipt of funds in the form of bridge capital, place the Bank under European state aid rules. Under such rules, the Bank's operations are restricted so that the state aid does not lead to the distortion of competition. For example, the Bank is not permitted to pay any coupon or dividend on own funds instruments until the end of the restructuring period, to make any asset purchases or to acquire any stake in any undertaking and has restrictions on lending practices as outlined in the commitments that the Hellenic Republic undertook towards the European Commission regarding Greek banks under restructuring, including the Bank. The commitments of the Hellenic Republic towards the European Commission refer, inter alia, to the appointment of a Monitoring Trustee for each bank, who acts on behalf of the EC and aims to ensure the compliance of the Bank with the aforementioned commitments. The Monitoring Trustee is responsible for the compliance of the Bank with Greek Company Law 2190/1920 on the sociétés anonymes, the corporate governance provisions and in general the banking regulatory framework, and monitors the organizational structure of the Bank in order to ensure that the internal audit and risk management departments of the Bank are fully independent from commercial networks. In order to fulfill the above role, the Monitoring Trustee has the right to attend the meetings of the audit committee and risk management committee of the Bank as an observer, review the annual audit plan and may require additional investigations, receive all reports emanating from internal control bodies of the Bank and be entitled to interview any auditor. Furthermore, the Monitoring Trustee monitors the commercial practices of the Bank, with a focus on credit policy and deposit policy. Accordingly, the Monitoring Trustee has the right to attend the meetings of the credit committees of the Bank as an observer, and monitors the development of the loan portfolio, the maximum amount that can be granted to borrowers, the transactions with related parties and other relevant matters. The Monitoring Trustee also has access to all the relevant credit files and the right to interview credit analysts and risk officers. Furthermore, he has the right to monitor the management policy of legal cases of the Bank. As a result, our management's discretion is subject to further oversight and certain decisions may be constrained by powers accorded to the Monitoring Trustee, which may affect business decisions and development strategies and limit the operational flexibility of the Group. Furthermore, in the event we fail to secure the 10% threshold in the recapitalization process, the Bank will pass under the control of the HFSF, which will, therefore, control the Bank's operations. The terms under which the HFSF will contribute capital are described below in Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis, the Successful Sovereign Debt Restructuring (PSI) the second economic adjustment program for Greece & recent macroeconomic developments" and "—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece". 20 Table of Contents The HFSF, the Hellenic Republic and state-related entities have the ability to exercise and currently exercise an important influence on the Bank in certain areas and following the completion of the recapitalization plan, if the Bank does not succeed in raising at least 10%, of its capital needs from the private sector, the HFSF will have control over the Bank. The Hellenic Republic directly owns all 270 million non transferable redeemable preference shares issued by NBG under the capital facility of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan (Greek Law 3723/2008) (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Bank Support Plan"). The direct stake of the Hellenic Republic in NBG as described above, provides the Hellenic Republic, amongst other things, with voting rights at the General Meeting of Preferred Shareholders, the appointment of a representative on the Board of Directors of NBG, who has the ability to veto decisions relating to strategic issues or decisions that could have a material impact on the legal or financial status of the Bank and for which the approval of the General Meeting is required, or decisions referring to the distribution of dividends and the remuneration of NBG's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the remaining members of the Board of Directors, the General Managers and their deputies under the relevant decision of the Ministry of Finance, or, in case of decisions that the representative considers detrimental to the interests of the depositors or that may materially affect the Bank's solvency and operation. Furthermore, the representative of the Hellenic Republic has free access to the Bank's books and records, restructuring reports, plans for medium-term financing needs, as well as data relating to the level of funding of the economy. Furthermore, the original Program in May 2010, introduced restructuring measures like the establishment of the HFSF whose only shareholder is the Hellenic Republic and whose role is to maintain the stability of the Greek banking system by providing capital support in the form of ordinary shares or contingent convertible securities or other convertible securities, if a significant decline in capital buffers of the banks occurs. Under the Program, as currently in force, the role of the HFSF was enhanced, providing it with greater oversight capacities over the banks in which, it is committed to provide capital support pursuant to the provisions of Greek Law 3864/2010 and the Cabinet Act 38/2012 (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis, the Successful Sovereign Debt Restructuring (PSI) the second economic adjustment program for Greece & recent macroeconomic developments" and "—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). In the context of the recapitalization of the Greek banks and specifically pursuant to the provisions of Greek Law 3864/2010, as currently in force, and Cabinet Acts 15/2012 and 38/2012, and following the contribution on May 28, 2012 to the Bank by the HFSF of EFSF bonds with total nominal amount of EUR 7,430.0 million, as an advance for the participation in the Bank's future share capital increase, the HFSF appointed on June 11, 2012, pursuant to the presubscription agreement signed on May 28, 2012, as amended and restated on December 21, 2012, with the HFSF and the EFSF (the "Presubscription Agreement"), a representative to the Bank's Board of Directors. On December 21, 2012, the Bank received additional EFSF bonds with total nominal amount of EUR 2,326.0 million from the HFSF as an additional advance for the participation of the HFSF in the Bank's future share capital increase pursuant to the Presubscription Agreement. Pursuant to the above legal framework and the Presubscription Agreement, the HFSF's appointed representative has the following powers: (a)to call the General Meeting of shareholders of the Bank; (b)to veto any decision of the Bank's Board of Directors: i.regarding the distribution of dividends and the remuneration policy concerning the chairman, the managing director and the other members of the Board of Directors, as well as the general managers and their deputies; or 21 Table of Contents ii.where the decision in question could seriously compromise the interests of depositors, or impair the Bank's liquidity or solvency or its overall sound and smooth operation (including business strategy, and asset/liability management); (c)to request an adjournment of any meeting of the Bank's Board of Directors for three business days in order to get instructions from the HFSF's Executive Committee, following consultation with the Bank of Greece; (d)to request the convocation of the Board of Directors of the Bank; (e)to approve the appointment of the chief financial officer of the Bank; (f)to participate in the meetings of the Audit Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee of the Bank as well as the committee the Bank is obliged to establish with a responsibility of supervising the implementation of the recapitalization plan which will be approved by the HFSF and the EU; (g)to include items in the agenda of the meetings of the Board of Directors of the Bank and of the committees in which the HFSF's representative participates; and (h)to be informed monthly by the Executive Committee of the Bank about all transactions that have a material impact and have not been discussed by the Bank's Board of Directors and the committees in which the HFSF's representative participates and to receive the agenda and the minutes of the Executive Committee and the Strategy Committee regarding decisions on transactions having a material impact. Furthermore, by virtue of the above Presubscription Agreement, the Bank's statutory auditors have to be agreed to by the HFSF. Based on the above, as a result of the Bank's participation in the recapitalization plan, the HFSF is able to exercise significant influence over the operations of the Group. Furthermore, in accordance with EU state aid rules and the European Commission practices, the Bank will have to develop a detailed restructuring plan or amend any such plan already submitted to the European Commission and the HFSF. In addition, failure of the Bank to meet the terms specified in the restructuring plan as submitted to the EU and the HFSF, will possibly, depending on its importance, result in initiating a procedure of assessment of the recapitalization by the Hellenic Republic as an illegal state aid to the Bank, and thereafter result in the HFSF exercising in full the voting rights of the shares it will acquire. The terms under which the HFSF will contribute capital are described below in Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis, the Successful Sovereign Debt Restructuring (PSI) the second economic adjustment program for Greece & recent macroeconomic developments" and "—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece". According to these terms, if the Bank does not succeed in raising at least 10%, of its capital needs from the private sector as further specified by the relevant ministerial decision, the HFSF-sourced capital will be in the form of common equity with full voting rights, resulting in the heavy dilution of existing shareholders. If the Bank succeeds in raising the requisite private sector funds of 10%, the shares that the HFSF will acquire from the respective capital increase will constitute common equity with restricted voting rights, which will allow the HFSF to exercise its voting rights in the General Meeting of Shareholders of the Bank only for resolutions regarding modifications of its Articles of Association, including: an increase or reduction of the share capital of the Bank or provision of relevant authorization to the Board of Directors of the Bank; merger, division, conversion, revival, extension of duration or dissolution of the Bank; material asset transfers, including disposal of subsidiaries; or any other matters that require an increased majority, as explicitly provided in Greek Company Law 2190/1920 regulating Greek sociétés anonymes. HFSF's common equity with restricted voting rights will be taken into account for the calculation of quorum 22 Table of Contents and majority percentages only for the aforementioned resolutions. If, however, a material breach of the terms of the restructuring plan submitted to the HFSF, as determined by a unanimous decision of the members of the General Council and its Executive Council, the HFSF is entitled to exercise in full the voting rights of the shares it will acquire without the above-described limitations. On April 10, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Bank convoked the General Meeting of Common Shareholders of the Bank for April 19, 2013 to approve the implementation of the recapitalization framework and in particular to approve (a) the reduction of the ordinary share capital of the Bank through a concurrent reverse split and reduction of the nominal of each common registered voting share of the Bank, (b) the issuance of contingent convertible notes ("CoCos") up to EUR 1,900 million pursuant to Greek Law 3864/2010 and Cabinet Act 38/2012 and (c) increase of the Bank's share capital up to the amount of EUR 9,756.0 million through the issuance of new, common, registered voting shares, pursuant to Greek Law 3864/2010, through payment in cash of an amount up to EUR 1,171 million and/or contribution in kind for the full amount of the share capital increase. On April 29, 2013 the second Repeat General Meeting of the Shareholders of the Bank approved all the above. Although the participation of the private sector in the Bank's share capital increase cannot be forecasted, given the existing market conditions, it may be less than the 10% threshold, resulting in the Bank's full recapitalization by the HFSF through the issue of ordinary shares with full voting rights and, effectively, the control of the Bank by the HFSF as its major shareholder, heavy dilution of the current shareholders and the nationalization of the Bank. In addition, the HFSF could exercise its voting rights in a manner which is not aligned with the interests of the Bank's other shareholders. On March 28, 2013, the Bank of Greece sent letters to the Bank and Eurobank, stating that each bank would have to proceed with the recapitalization which would have to be completed by the end of April 2013 and requesting them to proceed to the relevant necessary actions. On April 1, 2013, the Bank, jointly with Eurobank, sent to the Bank of Greece a letter requesting a formal extension for the recapitalization to June 20, 2013. In this letter, the Bank stated that an extension would allow the Bank adequate time to complete the merger with Eurobank and proceed with the recapitalization as a combined entity. This request was not approved by the Bank of Greece. On April 7, 2013, the Bank of Greece announced that the recapitalization process for the four major banks (NBG, Eurobank, Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank) would proceed. On April 8, 2013, the Bank and Eurobank issued a press release stating that the two banks, in agreement with the institutional authorities, would be recapitalized fully and independently of one another. Accordingly, the merger process was suspended. On April 22, 2013, Eurobank's board of directors announced that it would propose at the general shareholders meeting on April 30, 2013, that all rights be issued without offering preemptive rights to the existing shareholders. On April 30, 2013, this proposal was approved at the general shareholders meeting. As a result, the recapitalization of Eurobank through the HFSF will lead to our shareholding in Eurobank (in which we currently hold 84.4% following the Tender Offer) being reduced to a shareholding of less than 5%, with the HFSF having full voting rights in the Eurobank shares acquired. Apart from the above, the Hellenic Republic may exercise, up to a degree, influence as a shareholder, through certain state-related entities (primarily pension funds, most of whose boards of directors are appointed by the Hellenic Republic). As at April 10, 2013, various domestic pension funds owned in total approximately 13.0% of our ordinary share capital, and other domestic public sector related legal entities and the Church of Greece owned in total approximately 5.6% of our ordinary share capital. As at April 10, 2013 the Hellenic Republic held directly, through the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund, 0.96% of the Bank's ordinary shares. These state-related entities, despite holding in total a non-controlling level of our total shares, on a general shareholders meeting with no full voting participation by all of our common shareholders, may end up having a voting majority 23 Table of Contents required for a decision, provided that they agree on how they will exercise their voting rights and/or the context of their vote. There is a risk that the Hellenic Republic may exercise the rights it has to exert influence over the Bank and may disagree with certain decisions of the Group relating to dividend distributions, benefits policies and other commercial and management decisions which will ultimately limit the operational flexibility of the Group. If economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate, or if the financial position of the Group deteriorates, further government or inter-governmental intervention may take place in addition to the forthcoming recapitalization through the HFSF. Any further government or inter-governmental intervention, including through the HFSF, may have a material adverse effect on the interests of other holders of our securities, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Hellenic Republic and the HFSF also have interests in other Greek financial institutions and an interest in the health of the Greek banking industry and other industries generally, and those interests may not always be aligned with the commercial interests of the Group or its shareholders. There are risks associated with the Bank's need for additional capital and liquidity, most notably from increased asset impairment, as well as a significant deterioration in asset quality compared to previous estimates. The Bank and the Group are required by regulators in the Hellenic Republic and other countries in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital. Where it undertakes regulated activities elsewhere in the European Economic Area (the "EEA"), it will remain subject to the minimum capital requirements prescribed by the regulatory authority in the Hellenic Republic, except in jurisdictions where it has regulated subsidiaries, which will be subject to the capital requirements prescribed by local regulatory authorities. In jurisdictions where it has branches, including within the EEA, the Bank is also subject to regulatory capital and liquidity requirements of such jurisdictions. The Bank, its regulated subsidiaries and its branches may be subject to the risk of having insufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital and/or liquidity requirements. In addition, those minimum regulatory capital requirements are likely to increase in the future, or the methods of calculating capital resources may change. Likewise, liquidity requirements may come under heightened scrutiny, and may place additional stress on the Group's liquidity demands in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Group participated in the PSI and as a result, the Group recognized impairment on its Greek government bond portfolio and loans of EUR 10,090.7 million and EUR 415.0 million in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Furthermore, as a result of economic conditions in the Hellenic Republic, the Group also impaired its non-PSI exposure to the Hellenic Republic, by an amount of EUR 673.3 million and EUR 636.6 million in 2011 and 2012, respectively. These impairments had an adverse effect on the Group's capital position, resulting in losses of EUR 14.5 billion and EUR 2.5 billion in 2011 and 2012, respectively. As a result, the Group's total capital adequacy ratio fell below the minimum threshold of 8% and as a result the Bank requested access to the HFSF. Initially the Bank received, on May 28, 2012, from the HFSF five series of EFSF bonds, maturing from 2018 to 2022, with nominal amount of EUR 1,486.0 million each, totaling EUR 7,430.0 million, and on December 21, 2012, received an additional EUR 2,326.0 million maturing from 2022 to 2024 as an advance for the participation in the Bank's future share capital increase pursuant to the Presubscription Agreement, which raised its total capital ratio as at December 31, 2012 to 9.0%. One of the features of the recapitalization plan was that all Greek banks were required to achieve a Core Tier I capital ratio of 9% by September 2012 and 10% by June 2013. In this context, Act No. 2654/29.02.2012 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece was issued. This requirement was 24 Table of Contents subsequently abolished by Act No. 2664/18.09.2012 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece. In March 2013, the Executive Committee of the Bank of Greece issued Decision 13/28.03.2013, which resets Core Tier I Capital Ratio for Greek Financial Institutions at 9% and redefines the assets that are eligible for Core Tier I Capital, amending GA/BoG 2630/29.10.2010. Based on information regarding the Group's capital adequacy as of December 31, 2012, taking into consideration the total amount of the imminent share capital increase in the context of the recapitalization, this 9% threshold is not satisfied. The Group has already initiated certain actions aiming at improving the Group's capital adequacy, such as the disposal of its subsidiary Astir Palace Vouliagmeni S.A. (see Item 4.B, "Information on the Company—Business Overview—Other—Hotel Management") that we expect will have a positive impact on our capital and/or our risk weighted assets. However, there is no assurance that these or other actions aiming at improving the Group's capital adequacy will be completed within the anticipated timeframe or have the anticipated impact on the Group's capital ratios. If the Group does not satisfy the 9% Core Tier I threshold, it may subject to the measures that the Bank of Greece can take, pursuant to Greek Law 3601/2007, including the Bank of Greece appointing a commissioner to the Bank (see Item 4.B, "Information of the Company—Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The regulatory framework"). The main risks to the Bank's recapitalization needs are: (a) the unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, which may result in the Bank not being able to raise 10% from the private sector; (b) the poor economic environment in Greece, which may result in (i) a sharper deterioration in asset quality than the one projected by the independent loan diagnostic study performed on the domestic loan portfolio of the Group by BlackRock Financial Management Inc. ("BlackRock") (the "BlackRock loan diagnostic"), in accordance with the commitment undertaken by the Bank of Greece in 2011 under the Program in the context of ensuring that the Greek banks are adequately capitalized and (ii) weaker pre-provision profits in the domestic market; and (c) a weaker international environment, which may lead to lower-than-projected profits from our international subsidiaries. Even if the Bank initially meets the minimum capital ratio requirements established by the Bank of Greece, there are no assurances that the above risks will not result in further recapitalization needs following the completion of the recapitalization plan, therefore, requiring additional capital requests from the HFSF, which may in turn cause further dilution of existing shareholders beyond that expected in relation to the recapitalization to be completed by June, 2013. If these developments lead to a decline in our EBA Core Tier I capital ratio below 7% or if additional financial support from the public domain is needed for the Bank to become viable, then any contingent convertible bonds that have been issued will mandatorily convert into equity at a conversion price equal to a 50% discount to the issue price of the ordinary shares issued in the share capital increase of the Bank in the context of its recapitalization, thus resulting in further dilution of the existing private shareholdings. See "—The HFSF, the Hellenic Republic and state-related entities have the ability to exercise and currently exercise an important influence on the Bank in certain areas and following the completion of the recapitalization plan, if the Bank does not succeed in raising at least 10% of its capital needs from the private sector, the HFSF will have control over the Bank". We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB and the Bank of Greece for funding, which may be affected by changes in ECB and the Bank of Greece rules relating to the eligibility of collateral used for funding such as Greek government bonds and guarantees. The ongoing economic crisis has adversely affected the Bank's credit risk profile, delayed its return to the markets for funding, increased the cost of such funding and the need for additional collateral requirements in repo contracts and other secured funding arrangements, including those with the ECB and the Bank of Greece. Concerns relating to the ongoing impact of these conditions may further delay our ability to obtain funding in the private capital markets in the medium term. 25 Table of Contents The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access of the Bank to the capital markets for funding because of concerns by counterparty banks and other lenders, particularly for unsecured funding and funding from the short-term inter-bank market. These markets have been effectively closed to all Greek banks since the end of 2009. As a result, maturing inter-bank liabilities have not been renewed, or have been renewed only at higher costs. In addition, deposit outflows beginning in late 2009, and subsequently persisting, continue to put pressure on the liquidity position of many Greek banks. Reflecting the loss of access to market funding as well as the sharp decline in deposits, our net ECB funding and funding from the Bank of Greece, through its Emergency Liquidity Assistance ("ELA") facility, which has less strict collateral rules but higher cost of funds, has increased considerably since the start of the crisis. As at December 31, 2012, our net ECB funding and funding from the Bank of Greece amounted to EUR 30.9 billion (see Note 18 to the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements for the analysis of instruments pledged). The liquidity we receive from the ECB or the Bank of Greece may be adversely affected by changes in ECB and Bank of Greece rules. The amount of funding available from the ECB or the Bank of Greece is tied to the value of the collateral we provide, including the market value of our holdings of Greek government bonds, which may also decline. If the value of our assets declines, then the amount of funding we can obtain from the ECB or the Bank of Greece will be correspondingly limited. In addition, if the ECB or the Bank of Greece were to revise their collateral standards or increase the rating requirements for collateral securities such that these instruments were not eligible to serve as collateral with the ECB or the Bank of Greece, the Bank's funding costs could increase and its access to liquidity could be limited. The ECB or the Bank of Greece could also place time limitations on the use of government guaranteed securities as eligible collateral, and may set conditions for the continued use of liquidity under exceptional terms. In addition, we use our covered bonds as collateral with the ECB or the Bank of Greece. Our covered bonds may also become ineligible for use as collateral in the future, as a result of further credit ratings downgrades or changes in ECB or the Bank of Greece rules currently permitting this collateral. A further downgrade or withdrawal of Greek sovereign ratings would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to access current levels of funding from the ECB, the Bank of Greece or from any other source. A continued loss of deposits and the prolonged need for additional Eurosystem funding may result in the exhaustion of collateral eligible for funding from the Eurosystem. An accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits could cause an increase in our costs of funding and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity prospects. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been customer deposits. Since we rely on customer deposits for the majority of our funding, if our depositors withdraw their funds at a rate faster than the rate at which borrowers repay their loans, or if we are unable to obtain the necessary liquidity by other means, we may be unable to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring significantly higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain of our assets, or without increasing access to the ECB and the Bank of Greece under their exceptional terms. As at December 31, 2012, the Group's domestic deposits excluding interbank deposits decreased by 6.6% compared to December 31, 2011 and 23.1% compared to December 31, 2010. 26 Table of Contents The ongoing availability of customer deposits to fund the Bank's loan portfolio is subject to potential changes in certain factors outside the Bank's control, such as depositors' concerns relating to the economy in general, the financial services industry or the Bank specifically, significant further deterioration in economic conditions in Greece and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees. Any of these factors separately or in combination could lead to a sustained reduction in the Bank's ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms in the future, which would impact on the Bank's ability to fund its operation and meet its minimum liquidity requirements and have an adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. Unusually high levels of withdrawals could have the result that the Bank or another member of the Group may not be in a position to continue to operate without additional funding support, which it may be unable to secure. Furthermore, in March 2013, the government of Cyprus, in the context of its agreement with the Troika, proceeded to a haircut on deposits exceeding EUR 100,000 (the insured deposit level) of 100% at Cyprus Popular Bank ("CPB") and an undetermined percentage for the Bank of Cyprus. The losses of shareholders, bondholders and more importantly of depositors in respect of balances exceeding EUR 100,000 of the two Cypriot banks that were considered non-viable by the Troika could lead to fears of similar action taking place in Greece. Popular concern has been expressed that the burden sharing implemented in Cyprus could be a precedent to be applied in the context of depositors bearing part of the burden of financial institution losses in the financially weaker Member States. These concerns could lead to deposit outflows from the Bank, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. There is uncertainty about the Bank's ability to continue as a "going concern". Our independent auditors have added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion issued in connection with the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively, with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern, as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the completion of the recapitalization from the HFSF mainly due to political and macroeconomic developments in Greece. In Note 3 of the 2012 U.S. GAAP Financial Statements, reference is made to the impact of impairment losses from the restructuring of the Greek debt to the regulatory and accounting capital of the Group, to the scheduled actions to restore the capital adequacy of the Group through the HFSF and also to the existing uncertainties that could adversely affect the Bank's ability to continue as a going concern until the completion of the recapitalization. The going concern basis of the Bank is dependent on the completion of the recapitalization plan to restore the Group's financial position which remains negative and on maintaining adequate levels of capital, as well as on the Bank's continued ability to rely on liquidity facilities provided by the ECB and the Bank of Greece. Negative results in the Bank's stress testing may lead to further capital increases or loss of public confidence in the Bank. Stress tests analyzing the European banking sector have been, and we anticipate that they will continue to be, published by national and supranational regulatory authorities. At present, it is not clear how the EBA stress tests will be aligned with the requirements of the Program. Loss of confidence in the banking sector following the announcement of stress tests regarding the Bank or the Greek banking system as a whole, or a market perception that any such tests are not rigorous enough, could also have a negative effect on the Bank's cost of funding and may thus have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Greek banks may be required in the future to meet more stringent capital requirements regarding their EBA Core Tier I capital ratios. If the Bank were to fail to meet any such new requirements by 27 Table of Contents accessing the capital markets, we would be required to receive additional capital from the HFSF (see also "—There are risks associated with the Bank's need for additional capital and liquidity, most notably from increased asset impairment, as well as a significant deterioration in asset quality compared to previous estimates"). Our wholesale borrowing costs and access to liquidity and capital have been negatively affected by a series of downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating. Since 2009, the Hellenic Republic has undergone a series of credit rating downgrades and in 2010 moved to below investment grade. The credit rating of the Hellenic Republic was lowered by all three credit rating agencies to levels just above default status following the activation of collective action clauses in Greek government bonds subject to Greek Law in late February 2012. Specifically, Standard & Poor's lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to Selective Default-SD (February 27, 2012), Fitch lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to Restricted Default-RD (March 9, 2012), and Moody's lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to C (March 2, 2012). Following the conclusion of the exchange of Greek government bonds under Greek Law, Fitch raised its rating to B- (March 13, 2012) and Standard & Poor's raised its rating to CCC (March 2, 2012). Furthermore, on May 17, 2012, Fitch lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to CCC due to the upcoming general elections. On December 6, 2012, Standard & Poor's downgraded the Hellenic Republic to Selective Default-SD, following the invitation to eligible holders of new Greek government bonds issued under the PSI to participate in the tender offer for the debt buyback by the Hellenic Republic. However, on December 18, 2012, following the completion of the auction process relating to the debt buyback, Standard & Poor's upgraded the long-term credit rating of the Hellenic Republic by six notches to B- and the short-term credit rating to B with stable outlook, based on the strong commitment of the Eurozone countries to ensure that Greece will remain in Euro and the commitment of the Greek government to achieve the fiscal adjustment. A further downgrade of the Hellenic Republic's rating may occur in the event of a failure to implement the Program or if the Program fails to produce sufficient results. Accordingly, the cost of risk for the Hellenic Republic would increase further, with negative effects on the cost of risk for Greek banks and thereby on their results. Further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic could result in a corresponding downgrade in the Bank's credit rating. Deteriorating asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions may adversely affect our future earnings and our capital adequacy. An increase in financial market volatility or adverse changes in the marketability of our assets could impair our ability to value certain of our assets and exposures. The value ultimately realized by us will depend on their fair value determined at that time and may be materially different from their current value. Any decrease in the value of such assets and exposures could require us to realize additional impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our capital. The global economic slowdown and economic crisis in Greece from 2009 to 2013 have resulted in an increase in non-accruing loans and significant changes in the fair values of our financial assets. A substantial portion of our loans to corporate and individual borrowers are secured by collateral such as real estate, securities, vessels, term deposits and receivables. In particular, as mortgage loans are one of our principal assets, we are currently highly exposed to developments in real estate markets, especially in Greece. From 2002 to 2007, demand for housing and mortgage financing in Greece increased significantly driven by, among other things, economic growth, declining unemployment rates, demographic and social trends and historically low interest rates in the Eurozone. In late 2007 the 28 Table of Contents housing market began to adjust in Greece as a result of excess supply, higher interest rates and an accelerated decline in household disposable income. Construction activity started to contract sharply since 2009. The adjustment in residential valuations started in 2009 and continued at an accelerating pace between 2010 and the second half of 2012. The cumulative decline in house prices from a peak in September 2008 continued as a result of the recession with a decline of 34.2% in 2012 following a decline of 44% in 2011. House prices also fell by 11.8% in 2012, after falling by 5.3% (Source: Bank of Greece, "Bulletin of Conjunctural Indicators", Number 148, January-February 2012), 4.4% in 2010 and 4.3% in 2009. The decline is expected to continue in 2013 due to further contraction of disposable income and high stock of unsold houses. Furthermore, the unemployment in the fourth quarter of 2012 reached 26.4%, with upward trends in the first quarter of 2013, aggravating the situation, with mortgage delinquencies increasing further. Adverse developments could be triggered by any further significant deterioration of global economic conditions, including the credit profile of other EU countries such as Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus or Spain or international banks. Any of these events may give rise to concerns regarding the ability of the Hellenic Republic to meet its funding needs. These developments could: •further directly impact the carrying amount of our portfolio of Greek government debt; •further directly impact the impairment losses for receivables relating to the Hellenic Republic; •severely affect our ability to raise capital and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements; and •severely limit our ability to access liquidity. A continued decline in the Greek economy, or a deterioration of economic conditions in any industry in which our borrowers operate or in the market of the collateral, may result in the value of collateral falling below the outstanding principal balance for some loans, particularly those disbursed in the years prior to the crisis. A decline in the value of collateral, or our inability to obtain additional collateral, may require us to establish additional allowance for loan losses. In addition, our failure to recover the expected value of collateral in the case of foreclosure, or our inability to initiate foreclosure proceedings due to domestic legislation, may expose us to losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, since July 1, 2010, pursuant to the current legal framework, auctions initiated by banks or their assignees for satisfaction of claims not exceeding EUR 200,000 are suspended until December 31, 2013. As at December 31, 2012, outstanding balances that could be subject to this law were EUR 1,200.2 million. The Bank does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders. Under Greek Law 3723/2008, in conjunction with Greek Laws 4063/2012, 3965/2011, 3844/2010 and 3756/2009, the Bank did not pay any dividends to its ordinary shareholders in 2012 in respect of the 2011 financial year, and did not do so in 2011 in respect of the 2010 financial year. In general, as a result of our participation in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, our dividends are subject to a maximum of 35% of the Bank's distributable profits (on an unconsolidated basis) for as long as the Bank participates in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, and any decisions regarding, inter alia, distribution of dividends and remuneration can be vetoed by the Hellenic Republic representative who sits on our Board of Directors. The restrictions of Greek Law 3723/2008 regarding the distribution of dividends apply to the Bank as a result of its participation in the recapitalization framework pursuant to Greek Law 3864/2010. In addition, as long as the Bank participates in the recapitalization framework pursuant to Greek Law 3864/2010, the HFSF's representative who sits on the Bank's Board of Directors will have the power to veto any decision of the Board of Directors of the Bank regarding, inter alia, the distribution of dividends and remunerations. 29 Table of Contents Pursuant to the commitments undertaken by the Hellenic Republic vis-à-vis the European Commission due to the provision of state-aid to Greek banks, the Bank is prohibited from distributing dividends or paying coupons on own fund instruments or releasing reserves to put itself in such a position until the end of the restructuring period, unless such payment fulfills legal obligation of the Bank or the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission grants a relevant exception. Furthermore, on November 9, 2012, Cabinet's Act 38/9-11-2012 (GG A' 223) regarding the recapitalisation of the banks, provided that when the Bank issues CoCos and for as long as these CoCos are outstanding: a)the bank pays no dividend to common shareholders; b)the amount that would have been set aside for dividend distribution to common shareholders is used for paying, on a pro-rata basis, interest on CoCos, interest or dividends to other classes of securities ranking pari pasu to CoCos, as well as for repurchasing the said securities In June 2008, we issued 25 million non-cumulative, non-voting redeemable preference shares at an issue price of USD 625 million, which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. If the Bank has sufficient distributable funds, each preference share is entitled to USD 2.25 per share dividend per annum paid in cash. Payments of dividends on the aforementioned redeemable preference shares take preference over distributable profits otherwise available to our ordinary shareholders. We have not paid any dividends on our preference shares since March 2011 and will not proceed to such payment in respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2012 in view of the Bank's net loss for the year and in accordance with the Bank's Articles of Association, Greek Law 4063/2012 and the provisions of article 44a in conjunction with articles 42c and 43 of the Greek Company Law 2190/1920, which prohibit the payment of dividends in the absence of sufficient distributable funds. Our participation in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan has also resulted in the issuance of fixed return preference shares to the Hellenic Republic (EUR 350.0 million in January 2009 and EUR 1,000.0 million in December 2011). Greek Law 4093/2012 provides that the fixed return of 10% on the preference shares issued in favor of the Greek State in accordance with Greek Law 3723/2008, is payable in any case, except when the payment of the fixed return will lower the Core Tier I ratio of the Bank below the minimum required. The said provision is in force notwithstanding the provisions of Greek Company Law 2190/1920, except for article 44a, which prohibits the payment of dividends in the absence of sufficient distributable funds. Risks Relating to Volatility in the Global Financial Markets We are vulnerable to the ongoing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. Global economic growth maintains a steady, albeit weaker than normal, pace. Nonetheless, most of the economies with which Greece has strong export links, including a number of Euro area economies, continue to face significant economic headwinds. Activity remains dependent on highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and is subject to downside risks, as room for countercyclical policy measures has sharply diminished and fiscal fragilities have come to the fore. Policymakers in many advanced economies have publicly acknowledged the need to urgently adopt credible strategies to contain public debt and excessive fiscal deficits and later bring them down to more sustainable levels. The implementation of these policies may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In financial markets, concerns surfaced in a progressive widening of intra-Eurozone government bond and sovereign credit default swap ("CDS") spreads for several Eurozone issuers with large fiscal imbalances. Against a background of increasing unease over the macro-financial implications of sizeable fiscal imbalances, investors have reduced their investment in these countries. Continued reduction in 30 Table of Contents investment flows may retard economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our ability to fund our operations. Results of operations, both in Greece and abroad, in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of global nature, including: political and regulatory risks and the condition of public finances; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values; the availability and cost of funding; inflation, the stability and solvency of financial institutions and other companies; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of the above factors. We are exposed to risks potentially faced by other financial institutions. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Sovereign credit pressures may weigh on Greek financial institutions, limiting their funding operations and weakening their capital adequacy by reducing the market value of their sovereign and other fixed income holdings. These liquidity concerns have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, inter-institutional financial transactions in general. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient for us to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital position. Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of public companies in the United States are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (or "PCAOB") inspections that assess their compliance with United States Law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain EU countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such EU countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB conducted inspections in Greece in 2008 and evaluated our auditor's performance of audits of SEC registrants and our auditor's quality controls. Currently, however, the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections in Greece until a cooperation agreement between the PCAOB and the Greek Accounting & Auditing Standards Oversight Board is reached. Accordingly, as would not be the case for most public companies in the United States, should the PCAOB again wish to conduct an inspection, it is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most public companies in the United States, our shareholders would be deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. Risks Relating to Our Operations Outside of the Hellenic Republic Our Turkish operations make a significant contribution to our net income, and operating in Turkey carries certain macroeconomic and political risks. Turkish operations through Finansbank, our Turkish subsidiary, represented 23.7% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2012 compared to 19.4% as at December 31, 2011 and accounted for 45.1% net interest income before provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared 31 Table of Contents to 30.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a result, the Group is subject to operating risks in Turkey, including the following: •Turkey is a parliamentary democracy and, although stable, it is not free from political instability and domestic terrorist acts. •Military operations in the Middle East, particularly Syria, and elsewhere have increased the political and economic risks in the region. The current security situation in the Middle East may contribute to further tension. These risks may have an impact on the Turkish economy and consequently, on the Group's operations in Turkey. •Since the early 1980s, the Turkish economy has undergone a transformation from a highly protected state-directed system to a more free market economy, experiencing a general growth trend from 1992 to 2007. However, the Turkish economy has experienced a succession of financial crises, most notably in 2000 and 2001, as well as macroeconomic imbalances, including substantial budget deficits, significant balance of payments deficits, high inflation rates and high real interest rates. Turkey's economy is exposed to the effects of the continuing global credit difficulties, having experienced four successive quarters of deep recession between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the third quarter of 2009 before Turkey's GDP subsequently grew again, by 9.2% in 2010, 8.8% in 2011 and 2.2% in 2012. Despite the European economic crisis, the rate of growth of the Turkish economy is expected to increase to around 4.0% in 2013. There can be no assurance that Turkey will be able to remain economically stable during any periods of renewed global economic weakness. Future negative developments in the Turkish economy could impair Finansbank's business strategies and have a materially adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. •Turkey remains dependent on external financing, and its economy is highly exposed to a turnaround in global activity and investor sentiment. Although recent Turkish Central Bank policies have had some success in reducing inflation, there can be no assurance that they will continue to be successful in the future, especially given Turkey's substantial current account deficit and the global liquidity conditions. If the recovery from the downturn in the global financial markets takes longer than expected, or if there is any further turbulence in the global credit and liquidity markets, this could have an adverse effect on Turkey's ability to service its debt, leading to increased volatility in the Turkish economy. In addition to measures taken by the Turkish Central Bank and the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency of Turkey ("BRSA") to maintain financial stability, re-escalation of concerns regarding Eurozone economies weighed on Turkey's economic growth. Rebalancing of the economy since the final quarter of 2011 has been evident in the slowdown in domestic demand as reflected in the slowing GDP growth to 2.2% in 2012, down from 8.8% in 2011, and the narrowing cumulative current account deficit to 6% as of December 31, 2012 (compared to 9.7% for 2011). If the level of inflation in Turkey were to fluctuate significantly as a result of Turkey's current account deficit, global interest rates or other factors, Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of the NBG's shares, could be adversely affected. Further, the implementation of certain austerity measures proposed by the Government to control inflation could have an adverse effect on the Turkish economy and on the value of Turkish securities. Although the rate of inflation has decreased in recent years, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue, particularly if the Turkish Government fails to continue its current economic policies or if those policies cease to be effective. •Historically, the Turkish currency has been subject to significant volatility against the Euro and other currencies. For example, the TL appreciated by 3.9% against the Euro and by 5.7% against the U.S. dollar between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012. Since the acquisition of Finansbank by the Group on August 18, 2006 until March 20, 2013, the TL 32 Table of Contents depreciated by 20.7% against the Euro and by 20.0% against the U.S. dollar. The TL appreciated by 0.1% against the Euro and depreciated by 1.8% against the U.S. dollar between December 31, 2012 and March 20, 2013. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the value of the Bank's investment in Finansbank and on the Group's overall profitability. The Group has taken steps in the past to reduce its exposure to TL exchange rate fluctuations and intends to continue implementing such initiatives; however, such protection may not be available on as favorable terms as have been available in the past or at all and may not provide a sufficient hedge against such fluctuations. •The Group believes the general level of macroeconomic and political risk to be higher in Turkey than in a number of countries whose economies and banking markets are more developed and that are already members of the EU, but the risk levels are converging. While the Group believes there is potential for substantial growth in the Turkish banking market, growth may not occur, or Finansbank may be unable to benefit from that growth. Adverse macroeconomic and political events, that limit economic growth in Turkey or restrict the growth of the banking market may adversely affect Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, various new laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed in Turkey, that affect the Group's business in Turkey. The reserve requirement ratios for Turkish Lira deposits were increased in 2013 on a tiered basis so that they range from 11.5% to 5.0% depending on maturity. In addition, the reserve requirement ratios for foreign currency deposits were increased on a tiered basis so that they range from 12.5% to 6.0% depending on maturity. The Turkish Central Bank also allowed the banking sector to hold up to 60.0% of TL denominated required reserves in foreign currencies and up to 30.0% of TL denominated required reserves in gold accounts. Any failure by Finansbank to adopt adequate responses to these or other future changes in the regulatory framework could adversely affect Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations may lead to an accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits and could cause an increase in our costs of funding. Historically, Finansbank's principal sources of funds have included individual deposits. All of Finansbank's individual deposits are effectively short-term deposits (the average maturity of individual deposits as at December 31, 2012 was approximately 47.8 days), which could expose Finansbank to liquidity risks if retail customers were to withdraw large amounts of their deposits or do not roll over their term deposits upon maturity. Although customer deposits have increased at December 31, 2012 by 10.4% compared to December 31, 2011 (in TL terms), any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations could significantly increase the amount of individual deposit withdrawals in a short space of time or result in higher interest rates on individual deposits, which in turn could significantly increase Finansbank's cost of funding. Finansbank also relies heavily upon other types of short-term liabilities in addition to individual deposits for its funding. As at December 31, 2012, 65.2% of Finansbank's borrowed funds and issued debt securities had maturity of less than one year. Given such reliance upon short-term liquidity, there can be no assurance that, in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system or otherwise, Finansbank will be able to maintain its levels of funding and at commercially reasonable terms. A deterioration of the credit quality of Finansbank's loans could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. The 2009 economic downturn had an adverse effect on the financial condition of some of Finansbank's corporate and retail customers and, in some instances, ultimately affected their ability to service and repay their obligations. This has led to an increase in Finansbank's loans that are more 33 Table of Contents than 90 days past due ("dpd"), accompanied by increased allowance for loan losses. During 2010 and 2011, recoveries improved markedly. During 2012 recoveries deteriorated to 45.7% compared to 61.4% and 59.9% in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Over time, Finansbank has increased its exposure to retail customers, whose loans generally yield higher interest income but also tend to have higher levels of default than loans of corporate customers. There can be no assurance that continued weakness in consumer spending, high unemployment, decreased profitability of corporate businesses, increasing numbers of insolvencies and/or deterioration of the credit quality of corporate customers will not result in continued increases in the levels of Finansbank's impaired loans in the future. This could in turn, have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Finansbank's funding costs and its access to the debt capital markets may be affected by credit ratings. Any reduction in the current long-term ratings of Finansbank or any of its principal subsidiaries by rating agencies may increase Finansbank's funding costs, limit access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements. As a result, such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's ability to obtain financing, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any deterioration in NBG's credit rating or any decrease in Turkey's sovereign credit rating could affect Finansbank's ability to obtain financing and, in turn, Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. Finansbank faces intense competition in the Turkish banking sector from private banks and Government-owned financial institutions. The Turkish banking sector is highly competitive and has in recent years undergone a period of consolidation. As at December 31, 2012, there were a total of 45 banks (excluding the Turkish Central Bank and four "participation banks" (i.e., interest-free banking institutions)) licensed to operate in Turkey. A small number of these banks have a significant presence in the industry. According to the Banks Association of Turkey's published reports (Source: September 2012—Turkish Banks—Ranked by Total Assets—EURO), as at September 30, 2012, the top seven private banks in Turkey held approximately 59.4% of the banking sector's total loan portfolio and approximately 58.2% of the total bank assets in Turkey. The intense competition may increase the pressure for Finansbank to expand the range and sophistication of its products and services currently offered as well as reducing its margins. Increased pricing competition in the Turkish banking markets through the offering of products at significantly lower prices may also impact customer behavior patterns and loyalty. Any failure to maintain customer loyalty or to offer customers a wide range of high quality, competitive products with consistently high levels of service could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, state-owned banks in Turkey have historically had access to inexpensive funding in the form of significant Turkish Government deposits, which has provided a competitive advantage over private banks. Finansbank's increased exposure to intense competition in each of its key areas of operation, may, among other things, limit Finansbank's ability to increase its customer base, maintain customer loyalty, reduce its asset growth rate and profit margins on services it provides and increase competition for investment opportunities. There can be no assurance, therefore, that the continuation of existing levels of competition or increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents The Turkish banking sector has experienced significant volatility in the past. The significant volatility in the Turkish currency and foreign exchange markets experienced in 1994, 1998 and 2001, combined with the short foreign exchange positions held by many Turkish banks at those times, affected the profitability and liquidity of certain Turkish banks. In 2001, this resulted in the collapse of several financial institutions. Following this crisis, the Government made structural changes to the Turkish banking system to strengthen the private (i.e., non-governmental) banking sector and allow it to compete more effectively against the state owned banks. Notwithstanding such changes, the Turkish banking sector remains subject to volatility. If the general macro-economic conditions in Turkey and the Turkish banking sector in particular, were to suffer another period of volatility, there can be no assurance that this would not result in further bank failures, reduced liquidity and weaker public confidence in the Turkish banking system. Finansbank is subject to risks associated with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer policies and procedures. Finansbank has implemented internal measures to prevent it from being used as a conduit for money laundering or terrorist financing and believes that it is in compliance with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations. However, such measures, procedures and compliance may not be completely effective in preventing third parties from using members of Finansbank and their correspondent banks as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing without Finansbank's knowledge. Furthermore, while Finansbank reviews its correspondent banks' internal policies and procedures with respect to such matters, Finansbank to a large degree relies upon its correspondent banks to maintain and properly apply their own appropriate anti-money laundering and antiterrorist financing procedures. If Finansbank is associated with money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing, then Finansbank's and the Group's reputation could suffer and/or it could become subject to fines, sanctions and/or legal enforcement (including being added to any "blacklists" that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with Finansbank or the Group), which could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. If Finansbank is required to hold higher levels of capital than anticipated by the market, this could have a material adverse impact on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Banking institutions in Turkey, including Finansbank, are required to hold adequate capital at levels determined by regulatory requirements and market expectations. Under the Turkish Banking Law No. 5411, a bank's capital adequacy ratio must be greater than or equal to 8% within the framework of the Regulation regarding the Measurement and Evaluation of Capital Adequacy of Banks. Despite the 8% minimum capital adequacy ratio requirement, the BRSA has publicly announced that its approach is, and will continue to be, to prohibit banks, having a capital adequacy ratio of less than 12%, from opening new branches. In accordance with these guidelines, because Finansbank intends to open new branches from time to time, it must maintain a capital adequacy ratio in excess of 12%. Furthermore, BRSA is authorized to increase the minimum capital adequacy ratio or to set different ratios for each bank by taking into consideration such banks' internal systems as well as their asset and financial structures. If implemented by the BRSA in Turkey, potential changes relating to Basel III, as well as any uncertainty in financial markets may change regulations or market expectations, which could have the result of banks having to hold higher capital levels than currently expected. Definitions of capital tiers may also be subject to change. Any such changes could require Finansbank to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of greater than the 12% that is currently required by the BRSA. This could adversely impact the Bank's operational flexibility or ability to implement its growth strategy and could reduce 35 Table of Contents income growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, Turkish banks' capital adequacy requirements may be further affected by changes in regulations related to Basel III, which includes requirements regarding regulatory capital, liquidity adequacy, leverage ratio and counterparty credit risk measurements. If these or any other capital adequacy-related revisions are adopted in Turkey, or if Finansbank is unable to maintain its capital adequacy ratios above the minimum levels required by the BRSA whether due to an inability to obtain additional capital on acceptable economic terms, if at all, or to sell assets (including subsidiaries) at commercially reasonable prices or at all, or for any other reason, this could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct significant international activities in SEE operations, which carries certain political, governmental or macroeconomic risks. Apart from our operations in the Hellenic Republic and Turkey, we have built up substantial operations in Bulgaria, Romania, Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia ("FYROM"), Serbia and other developing economies. The Group's SEE operations accounted for 10.1% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2012 compared to 10.4% as at December 31, 2011 and 10.4% of our net interest income before provisions for loan losses at and for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to 11.1% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our SEE operations are exposed to the risk of adverse political, governmental or economic developments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, most of the countries outside the Hellenic Republic in which we operate are emerging markets in which we face particular operating risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our SEE operations also expose us to foreign currency risk. A decline in the value of the currencies in which our SEE subsidiaries receive their income or value their assets relative to the value of the Euro may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The economic crisis in Greece may: •materially adversely affect the operations of our SEE subsidiaries and Turkey; •increase depositors' concerns in these countries regarding the creditworthiness of the Hellenic Republic and the Bank, which may, in turn, affect their willingness to continue to do business with our international subsidiaries; and •result in local governmental intervention. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We maintain trading and investment positions in debt, currency, equity and other markets. These positions could be adversely affected by continuing volatility in financial and other markets and the Greek sovereign debt crisis, creating a risk of substantial losses. Significant decline in perceived or actual values of the Group's assets has resulted from previous market events. Continuing volatility and further dislocation affecting certain financial markets and asset classes could further impact the Group's results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In the future these factors could have an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in the Group's available-for-sale, trading portfolios and financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected. In addition, any further deterioration in the performance of the assets in the Group's investment securities portfolios could lead to additional other-than-temporary impairment losses, 36 Table of Contents including our holdings of Greek government bonds. The investment securities portfolios accounted for 7.4% of the Group's total assets as at December 31, 2012. Volatility can also lead to losses relating to a broad range of other trading securities and derivatives held, including swaps, futures, options and structured products. For further information on market risk exposures in those portfolios, you should refer to Item 11, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk". The increase of non-accruing loans may have a negative impact on the Group's operations in the future. Non-accruing loans represented 21.4% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012, while the same ratio for our Greek operations was 26.3% (see Item 4.E, "Selected Statistical Data—Credit Quality—Non-accruing Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Loan Loss Experience" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations—Non-accruing Loans and Write-offs"). The effect of the economic crisis in Greece and adverse macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate may result in further adverse effects on the credit quality of our borrowers, with increasing delinquencies and defaults. In accordance with Greek Law 3869/2010, individuals who are in a state of permanent inability to pay their debts not attributable to willful misconduct, have the ability to adjust their debts and may be released from a portion of such debts through filing of an application to the competent court (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). In order for an individual to apply to the courts under this law, the applicant is required to follow a lengthy procedure. As at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, 25,003 and 5,930 customers, respectively, had applied to the courts under this law, with combined outstanding balances of EUR 839.0 million and EUR 286.0 million, respectively. In addition, collateral collections are more difficult in a period of economic recession and in view of existing legislation relating to the valuation of collateral in enforcement proceedings. Moreover, as a result of the financial crisis, and for the protection of the weaker debtors, enforcement auctions have been suspended until December 31, 2013, in cases where either the outstanding balance does not exceed EUR 200,000, or in cases involving the primary residence of an individual, regardless of whether such individual is considered a merchant under Greek Law or not, provided that such residence does not exceed the non-taxable threshold increased by 50% (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). As at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, outstanding balances that could be subject to the abovementioned Act were EUR 1,200.2 million and EUR 365.7 million, respectively. Future provisions for non-accruing loans could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Further to the above, new measures have recently been announced that will enter into force in the near future referring to settlements of loans secured by a mortgage. Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. There can be no assurance that further events will not alter the interest rate environment in Greece and the other markets in which the Group operates. Cost of funding is especially at risk for the Bank due to increased Eurosystem funding and the tight liquidity conditions in the domestic deposit market. As with any bank, changes in market interest rates may affect the interest rates we charge on our interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could reduce our net interest income before provisions for loan losses. Since the majority of our loan portfolio effectively re-prices within a year, rising interest rates may also result in an increase in our allowance for loan losses if customers cannot refinance in a higher interest rate environment. Further, an increase in interest rates may reduce our clients' capacity to repay in the current economic circumstances. 37 Table of Contents We face significant competition from Greek and foreign banks. The general scarcity of wholesale funding since the onset of the economic crisis has led to a significant increase in competition for retail deposits in Greece. We also face competition from foreign banks, some of which may have resources greater than our own. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with domestic and international banks in the future, especially, if our Greek competitors succeed in raising 10% from the private sector and remain outside the full control of the HFSF. These competitive pressures on the Group may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Laws regarding the bankruptcy of individuals and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece, Turkey and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to receive payments on past due loans. Laws regarding the bankruptcy of individuals who are not merchants (including Greek Law 3869/2010, Government Gazette A 130/3.8.2010, regarding the debt arrangement of debts for over-indebted individuals) and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights generally vary significantly within the region in which the Group operates. In some countries, the laws offer significantly less protection for creditors than the bankruptcy regimes in Western Europe and the United States. If the current economic crisis persists or worsens, bankruptcies could intensify, or applicable bankruptcy protection laws and regulations may change to limit the impact of the recession on corporate and retail borrowers. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in consumer protection laws might limit the fees that the Group may charge in certain banking transactions. Changes in consumer protection laws in Greece, Turkey and other jurisdictions where the Group has operations could limit the fees that banks may charge for certain products and services such as mortgages, unsecured loans and credit cards. If introduced, such laws could reduce the Group's net income, though the amount of any such reduction cannot be estimated at this time. There can be no assurance that such effects will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to increasingly complex regulation which may increase our regulatory and capital requirements. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each jurisdiction in which it operates. All of these regulatory requirements are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions. In response to the global financial crisis, national governments as well as supranational groups, such as the EU, have been considering significant changes to current regulatory frameworks, including those pertaining to capital adequacy, liquidity and scope of banks' operations. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory framework (including requirements imposed by virtue of our participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives, such as the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan), we may face greater regulation in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey, SEE and the United States. Current and future regulatory requirements may be different across each of these locations and even requirements with EEA-wide application may be implemented or applied differently in different jurisdictions. Compliance with these new requirements may increase our regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and costs, disclosure requirements, restrict certain types of transactions, affect our strategy and limit or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loan and other 38 Table of Contents products, any of which could lower the return on the Group's investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The new regulatory framework may have significant scope and may have unintended consequences for the global financial system, the Greek financial system or our business, including increasing competition, increasing general uncertainty in the markets or favoring or disfavoring certain lines of business. In addition, changes in law to address tax compliance issues such as compliance with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act ("FATCA") may increase our compliance costs. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes on our business, financial condition, cash flows or future prospects. Regulation of the banking industry in the Hellenic Republic has changed in recent years largely as a result of Greece's implementation of applicable EU directives and in response to the economic crisis in the Hellenic Republic. During 2012 and the beginning of 2013, the Bank of Greece has issued a series of Governor's Acts ("GA/BoG") aiming to further strengthen the regulatory framework of Financial Institutions and to incorporate specific European Guidelines. More specifically, the Bank of Greece issued the following Governor's Acts: •GA/BoG 2645/09.09.2011 (Redefining rules for calculating regulatory capital for exposures to Securitization/Resecuritization), •GA/BoG 2646/09.09.2011 (Updating rules for calculating regulatory capital for market risk), •GA/BoG 2651/20.01.2012 (Regulatory reports to be submitted periodically by financial institutions to Bank of Greece), •GA/BoG 2655/16.03.2012 (Technical criteria on disclosure requirements) and •GA/BoG 2661/03.07.2012, which has amended several GAs/BoG on capital adequacy, the measurement of regulatory capital and the exposures and risks of banks. More specifically, it amended GA/BoG 2588/20.08.2007 (STD Approach for Credit Risk in the Banking Book), GA/BoG 2589/20.08.2007 (IRB Approach for Credit Risk in the Banking Book), GA/BoG 2590/20.08.2007 (Operational Risk), GA/BoG 2594/20/08/2007 (Counterparty Credit Risk), GA/BoG 2630/29.10.2010 (Own Funds), GA/BoG 2635/29.10.2010 (Large Exposures) and GA/BoG 2646/9.9.2011(Market Risk). •GA/BoG 2664/28.09.2012, which cancelled GA/BoG 2654/29.02.2012. The latter was setting new Core Tier I Capital Ratio for Greek Financial Institutions at 9% as of 30.09.2012 and 10% as of 30.6.2013. In March 2013, however, the Executive Committee of the Bank of Greece issued Decision 13/28.03.2013, which resets Core Tier I Capital Ratio for Greek Financial Institutions at 9% and redefines the assets that are eligible for Core Tier I Capital, amending GA/BoG 2630/29.10.2010. The European Parliament and the Council of Europe proceeded during 2011 in issuing and publishing for consultation a new directive (known as CRD IV: "European Commission, Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on prudential requirements for banks and investment firms, July 20, 2011"), which incorporates respective amendments that have been proposed by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee") (Basel III). The following are the most significant EBA publications since December 2010 concerning the regulatory framework of financial institutions: •Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices (December 10, 2010) •Guidelines on the application of Article 122a of the Capital Requirements Directive (December 31, 2010) 39 Table of Contents •CEBS's Guidelines for the joint assessment and joint decision regarding the capital adequacy of cross-border groups (December 22, 2010—GL39) •Guidelines on Internal Governance (September 27, 2011—GL44) •EBA Guidelines on Stressed Value At Risk (Stressed VaR—May 16, 2012—EBA/GL/2012/2) •EBA Guidelines on the Incremental Default and Migration Risk Charge (IRC—May 16, 2012—EBA/GL/2012/3) •EBA Consultation Paper on Draft Regulatory Technical Standards on Own Funds—Part one (April 4, 2012—EBA/CP/2012/02). •EBA Discussion Paper on defining the Liquid Assets for the calculation of LCR (EBA/DP/2013/01) •EBA Discussion Paper on retail deposits subject to higher outflows for the calculation of LCR (EBA/DP/2013/02) •EBA Recommendation on the development of Recovery Plans (EBA/REC/2013/02) The directive on the undertake and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance "Solvency II" (Directive 2009/138/EC) of November 25, 2009, is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance sector business. When implemented the capital structure and overall governance of the Group's life assurance business will alter significantly and this may have an impact on the capital structure of the Group. Although, the date of transposition was initially October 31, 2012, the Directive 2012/23/EE stated that the date for transposition into national law is June 30, 2013. Further, January 1, 2014 is the date of application and subsequent removal of the existing relevant insurance and reinsurance directives. Finansbank is subject to a number of banking and other regulations in Turkey, in particular those of the BRSA. Banking regulations in Turkey are evolving in parallel to the global changes and international regulatory environment. Since June 2012, Turkish banks are required to measure and report their capital adequacy in compliance with Basel II, as adopted in Turkey. Although the impact on Finansbank's capital ratios from adopting Basel II was positive, requirements relating to the proposed implementation of Basel III, which is currently subject to proposal and public consideration in Turkey, and may have an adverse effect on Finansbank's capital ratios if implemented by the BRSA in Turkey. The Group may be subject to the provisions of the Crisis Management Directive, once finalised and implemented, in the future. On June 6, 2012, the European Commission published a legislative proposal for a directive providing for the establishment of an EU-wide framework for the recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms (the "Crisis Management Directive" or "CMD"). The stated aim of the draft CMD is to provide authorities with common tools and powers to address banking crises preemptively in order to safeguard financial stability and minimize taxpayers' exposure to losses. The powers provided to authorities in the draft CMD are divided into three categories: (a) preparatory steps and plans to minimize the risks of potential problems (preparation and prevention); (b) in the event of incipient problems, powers to arrest a bank's deteriorating situation at an early stage so as to avoid insolvency (early intervention); and (c) if insolvency of an institution presents a concern as regards the general public interest, a clear means to reorganize or wind down the bank in an orderly fashion while preserving its critical functions and limiting to the maximum extent any exposure of taxpayers to losses in insolvency (resolution). 40 Table of Contents The draft CMD currently contains four resolution tools and powers: (a) sale of business, which enables resolution authorities to the sale of the institution or the whole or part of its business on commercial terms without requiring the consent of the shareholders or complying with the procedural requirements that would otherwise apply; (b) bridge institution, which enables resolution authorities to transfer of all or part of the business of an institution to a "bridge bank" (a publicly controlled entity); (c) asset separation, which enables resolution authorities to transfer impaired or problem assets to an asset management vehicle to allow them to be managed and worked out over time; and (d) bail in, which gives resolution authorities the power to write down the claims of unsecured creditors of a failing institution and to convert unsecured debt claims to equity (subject to certain parameters as to which liabilities would be eligible for the bail in tool). The draft CMD contemplates that it will be implemented in Member States by December 31, 2014, except for the bail in tool which is to be implemented by January 1, 2018. The powers currently set out in the draft CMD would impact how banks and investment firms are managed as well as, in certain circumstances, the rights of creditors. However, the proposed directive is not in final form and changes may be made to it in the course of the legislative procedure. As such, it is too early to anticipate the full impact of the draft directive but there can be no assurance that, once it is agreed upon and implemented, shareholders and potential investors will not be adversely affected by actions taken under it. In addition, there can be no assurance that, once the draft CMD is agreed upon and implemented, its application will not have a significant impact on the Group's results of operations, business, assets, cash flows and financial condition, as well as on funding activities carried out by the Group and the products and services offered by the Group. The loss of senior management may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. Our current senior management team includes a number of executives we believe contribute significant experience and expertise to our management in the banking sectors in which we operate. The continued performance of our business and our ability to execute our business strategy will depend, in large part, on the efforts of our senior management. For instance, a change of government in the Hellenic Republic, or a situation of effective control by the HFSF following the completion of the recapitalization plan could lead to the departure of certain senior managers. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer, our Deputy Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer resigned in 2012 and our Deputy Chief Financial Officer resigned in April 2013. For information on the resignation of personnel with US GAAP knowledge and the related deficiencies in management's internal controls, please refer to "—Material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business". If a substantial portion of our senior management leaves us, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to recruit or retain experienced and/or qualified personnel. Our competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified and experienced banking and management personnel. Competition in the Greek, Turkish and other SEE banking industries for personnel with relevant expertise is intense due to the relatively limited availability of qualified individuals. To recruit qualified and experienced employees and to minimize the possibility of their departure, we provide compensation packages consistent with evolving standards in the relevant labor markets. Under the terms of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, as currently applicable, the Bank is prohibited from paying bonuses to the members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and any general managers or their substitutes. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis and regulatory restrictions on bonus payments, we are limiting or restricting the bonuses we pay our personnel, which may inhibit the retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel. The inability to recruit and retain 41 Table of Contents qualified and experienced personnel in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE, or manage our current personnel successfully, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. This risk has increased in view of the current economic situation in Greece. We could be exposed to significant future pension and post-employment benefit liabilities. Like other large companies in the Hellenic Republic that are, or were, in the public sector, the employees of the Bank and certain of our subsidiaries participate in employee-managed pension schemes. The Bank and certain of our subsidiaries make significant contributions to these schemes. In addition, the Bank and several of our subsidiaries offer other post-employment benefit plans, including medical benefit plans. Our consolidated net liability under these plans as of December 31, 2012 was EUR 387.9 million, determined by reference to a number of critical assumptions. These include assumptions about movements in interest rates which may not be realized. Potential variation may cause us to incur significantly increased liability in respect of these obligations. For more information on our current obligations under pension plans and the assumptions by reference to which they are determined, please refer to Note 38 of the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements. In accordance with Greek Law 3655/2008, applicable from April 2008, the Bank's main pension plan and the main pension branch of Ethniki Hellenic General Insurance S.A.'s ("EH") post-employment and health plan, both of which are defined-contribution plans, have been incorporated into the main pension branch of the state-sponsored social security fund ("IKA—ETAM"). Pursuant to this legislation, the Bank contributes into IKA—ETAM EUR 25.5 million per year for 15 years starting from December 2009. In 2005 and 2006, the Hellenic Republic passed legislation permitting bank employee auxiliary pension schemes to merge with the new Insurance Fund of Bank Employees ("ETAT"). The relevant legislation provides that, in connection with the merger of auxiliary schemes with ETAT, the relevant employer shall make a payment to ETAT solely in an amount to be determined by a special financial report commissioned by the Ministry of Finance pursuant to this legislation. The Bank's employees' Auxiliary Pension Plan provides for defined contributions to be made by the Bank at a rate of 9% of the employee's salary. Benefits paid are determined by years of service with the Bank and the employee's final pensionable pay. Under Greek Law 3371/2005 employees hired after January 1, 2005 are insured in the singe auxiliary social security fund ("ETEAM"). The Bank pays its contributions to ETEAM since May 1, 2007. In accordance with Greek Law 4052/2012 (GG A' 41) a new auxiliary fund called Integrated Auxiliary Pension Fund ("ETEA") was established and started on July 1, 2012. ETEA includes, among others, ETEAM and according to transitional provisions of the same law (GG A' 256/2012), from January 1, 2013, the ETAT regarding the auxiliary schemes is mandatorily included. In April 2006 the Bank applied under Greek Law 3371/2005, as amended, to merge its Auxiliary Pension Fund, a defined-contribution plan, into ETAT. Consequently, the Bank may have to contribute a significant amount to ETEA in relation to this merger. Furthermore, Greek Law 3863/2010 amended substantially the structure and operation of the Greek pensions system. These developments, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and any future legislation regarding pensions and pension liabilities or other post-employment benefit obligations, including those under the Program may increase the liability of the Bank or its subsidiaries with respect to pension and other post-employment benefit plan contributions to cover actuarial or operating deficits of those plans. 42 Table of Contents The Greek banking sector is subject to strikes, which may adversely affect the Group's operations. Most of the Bank's employees belong to a union and the Greek banking industry has been subject to strikes over the issues of pensions and wages. Bank employees throughout the Hellenic Republic went on strike for 14 days in 2012. In 2013, Bank employees have gone on strike 5 days (through April 10, 2013), largely to express their opposition to the new austerity measures implemented in light of the Program. Greek bank unions in general participate in general strikes which have increased. Prolonged labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations in the Hellenic Republic, either directly or indirectly, for example on the willingness or ability of the government to pass the reforms necessary to successfully implement the Program. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgments and estimates that may change over time or may not be accurate. In establishing the fair value of certain financial instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilize observable financial market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilized by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in financial market conditions. In such circumstances, the Group's internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgments and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgments and estimates the Group is often required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows. Such assumptions, judgments and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Group's earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the Group's financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. We are exposed to credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. As a result of our activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. Among the most significant of these risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. Failure to control these risks could result in material adverse effects on our financial performance and reputation. •Credit Risk. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss relating to the failure of a borrower to honor its contractual obligations against the Group. It arises in lending activities as well as in various other activities where we are exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as our trading, capital markets and settlement activities. The risk of counterparty default is the largest single risk we face. •Market Risk. Market risk arises due to the uncertainty regarding the changes in market prices and rates (including interest rates, equity and bond prices and foreign exchange rates) and their levels of volatility. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect our net interest margin. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets or financial conditions generally may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. We have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which our portfolios are also exposed (see Item 11, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk"). However, it is 43 Table of Contents difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our financial performance and business operations. •Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is defined as the current or prospective risk to earnings and capital arising from an entity's inability to meet its liabilities when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. It reflects the potential mismatch of payment obligations to incoming payments, taking into account unexpected delays in repayments (term liquidity risk) or unexpectedly high payment outflows (withdrawal/call risk). Liquidity risk involves both the risk of unexpected increases in the cost of funding a portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner on reasonable terms. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access to markets for the Bank, which currently relies almost entirely on the ECB and the Bank of Greece (see "—Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis—We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB and the Bank of Greece for funding, which may be affected by changes in ECB and Bank of Greece rules relating to the eligibility of collateral used for funding such as Greek government bonds and guarantees", Item 5.B "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Item 11 "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk"). •Operational Risk. Operational risk corresponds to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether deliberate, accidental or natural occurrences. Internal events include, but are not limited to, fraud by employees, clerical and record keeping errors and information systems malfunctions or manipulations. External events include floods, fires, earthquakes, riots or terrorist attacks, fraud by outsiders and equipment failures. Finally, we may also fail to comply with regulatory requirements or conduct of business rules. •Insurance Risk. The principal risk that the Group may face under its insurance policies is that the actual claims and benefit payments, or the timing thereof, differ from expectations. This could occur because the frequency or severity of claims is greater than estimated. Depending on the insurance product, this risk is influenced by macroeconomic changes, changes in customer behavior, changes in public health, pandemics and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, industrial disasters, fires, riots or terrorism. Although Management believes that its risk management and risk mitigation policies are adequate, our risk management processes may not prevent all instances of fraud. In addition, continuing volatility as a result of market forces out of our control could cause the Bank's liquidity position to deteriorate. Such deterioration would increase funding costs and limit the Bank's capacity to increase its credit portfolio and the total amount of its assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, results of operations and financial condition. Our economic hedging may not prevent losses. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we use to economically hedge our exposure to market risk is not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. Unexpected market developments therefore may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Moreover, we do not economically hedge all of our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we are exposed to TL fluctuations and do not always economically hedge this exposure. We have not hedged the sovereign credit risk of the Hellenic Republic. 44 Table of Contents The Group's operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, vulnerable to an increasing risk of continually evolving cyber-security or other technological risks which could result in the disclosure of confidential client or customer information, damage to the Group's reputation, additional costs to the Group, regulatory penalties and financial losses. A significant portion of the Group's operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. The Group stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. These activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber attacks, the nature of which is continually evolving. The Group's computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to the Group's reputation with its clients and the market, additional costs to the Group (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both the Group and its clients. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Group (such as the lack of availability of the Group's online banking systems), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given the volume of transactions at the Group, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. In addition, third parties with which the Group does business under stringent contractual agreements, may also be sources of cyber security or other technological risks. The Group outsources a limited number of supporting functions, such as printing of customer credit card statements, which results in the storage and processing of customer information. Although the Group adopts a range of actions to eliminate the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as not allowing third-party access to the production systems and operating a highly controlled IT environment, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents could occur, resulting in similar costs and consequences to the Group as those discussed above. While the Group maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks such as fraud and financial crime, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Our loan portfolio may continue to contract. In the current economic environment, our Greek loan portfolio may continue to decline, and our foreign loan portfolio may not grow at historic rates or may even decline. Furthermore, there is a limited number of high credit quality customers to whom banking services may be provided in our target markets. Developments in our loan portfolio will be affected by, among other factors, the health of the Greek economy in light of the economic crisis and the Program. The continuing decline in our loan portfolio, in combination with non-accruing loans, may limit our net interest income, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be subject to additional taxes. Due to the uncertainty regarding the success of the Program, new taxes may be imposed on the Group, such as the "one-off" taxation on profitable companies, and existing taxes may be increased. 45 Table of Contents Greek Law 4110/2013 provides that for the periods commencing from January 1, 2013 thereon, the nominal corporation tax rate is increased to 26%. Furthermore, for profit distributions approved from January 1, 2014 onwards withholding tax is reduced to 10%. In 2010, the Group was subject to a EUR 79.1 million windfall tax, which comprised of a tax on 2009 earnings of EUR 26.1 million and a non-offsettable withholding tax of EUR 53.0 million relating to interest income from bonds. In addition, at the European Council Summit held on June 17, 2010, representatives agreed that Member States should introduce a system of levies and taxes on financial institutions to promote an equitable distribution of the costs of the global financial crisis. Any additional taxes imposed on us in the future, or any increases in tax rates, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in this annual report is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and that it is accumulated and communicated to our Management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. As of December 31, 2012, we performed an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our Management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Principal Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are ineffective as of December 31, 2012, due to the fact that Management identified significant deficiencies in its Internal Control over Financial Reporting related to the lack of sufficient personnel with appropriate US GAAP knowledge, due to the resignation of our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our staff during 2012 which combined with the fact that the Bank relies on several complex manual processes to extract and process high volumes of information from the core banking systems in order to generate the US GAAP financial statements, the controls over which are dependent on such staff. The above significant deficiencies aggregated into a material weakness. Further personnel with appropriate US GAAP knowledge resigned in 2013. See Item 15 "Controls and Procedures". The existence of that material weakness could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Furthermore, further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our material controls would also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of both money and management's time to comply with applicable requirements. We have initiated remedial steps to address this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. 46 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Markets There can be no assurance that the Bank will continue to satisfy the continued listing eligibility criteria of the listing rules of the Athens Exchange (the "ATHEX") or the NY Stock Exchange ("NYSE") following completion of the recapitalization plan. There can be no assurance that the Bank will continue to satisfy the free float eligibility criteria of the listing rules of the ATHEX following completion of the recapitalization plan. If private sector investors do not subscribe to the required 10% of the Bank's capital needs and the HFSF fully covers the capital increase, the HFSF will become the controlling shareholder of NBG, holding approximately 95% of NBG's ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX, the free float eligibility criteria may not be satisfied and the ATHEX may reclassify the Bank's share into another listing segment, namely the Low Free Float Segment or even the To be Delisted Segment. If the free float eligibility criteria remain unsatisfied for a period of circa one year the ATHEX may commence delisting proceedings against the Bank's ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX. The NYSE may commence delisting of our ADRs if the Bank fails to meet certain continued listing criteria, in particular the so-called "price condition". According to the "price condition", if the price of the ADRs falls below US$1 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, the ADRs will be considered to be "below criteria" and subject to potential suspension and delisting procedures by the NYSE. On April 10, 2013, the Bank was notified by the NYSE that our ADRs were "below criteria" by virtue of the price of the ADRs. On April 17, 2013 the Bank notified the NYSE of its intent to cure the deficiency. In accordance with normal NYSE procedures, the Bank will have six months to take such actions required to bring the price of the ADRs back above US$1. If the price of the ADRs has not risen above US$1 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period within 6 months, the NYSE will commence suspension and delisting procedures. Exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on the value of our shares. The market price of our shares traded on the ATHEX is denominated in Euro. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Euro and other currencies may affect the value of the Bank's shares in the local currency of investors in the United States and other countries that have not adopted the Euro as their currency. Additionally, any cash dividends on our ordinary shares are paid in Euro and, therefore, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations when converted to an investor's local currency, including U.S. dollars. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major exchanges. The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is the ATHEX. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major stock markets in Western Europe and the United States. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty assessing the past performance of the ordinary shares based on our prior trading record on the ATHEX. In 2012, the average daily trading value on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 51.9 million, while in the first three months of 2013 it was approximately EUR 64.8 million. In comparison, the average daily trading value on the London Stock Exchange was approximately GBP 4.7 billion in 2012. As at December 31, 2012, the aggregate market value of all shares listed on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 34.3 billion, while as at March 26, 2013 it was approximately EUR 33.6 billion. The market value of our ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX on December 31, 2012 and April 10, 2013, was EUR 1.2 billion and EUR 0.7 billion, representing approximately 3.6% and 2.1%, respectively, of the capitalization of all companies listed on the ATHEX. We cannot make assurances about the future liquidity of the market for our shares. 47 Table of Contents Our share price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our shares has been subject to significant volatility in the past, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: •the overall condition of the Greek economy and budget deficit; •the perceived stability of the Economic and Monetary Union; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •results of operations of our competitors; •potential changes in banking regulatory regimes; •potential or actual sales of large amounts of the Bank's shares into the market; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •conditions and trends in the banking sector in Greece and elsewhere in Europe; •the condition of the Turkish and other economies in which we do business; and •the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the Greek, Turkish, other SEE and financial services sectors). In addition, the share price may also be subject to volatility due to the commitment of the HFSF to sell part or all of its shares in the Bank within certain time limits, including within two years if the Bank does not succeed in raising the required 10% of the capital shortfall through private sector participation. For the annual high and low market prices of the Bank's shares on the ATHEX for the five most recent financial years see Item 9.A, "The Offer and Listing—Offer and Listing Details". The exercise of preemptive rights may not be available to U.S. holders of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts. Under Greek Law and our Articles of Association, prior to the issuance of any new ordinary shares, we must offer holders of our existing ordinary shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of ordinary shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages. These preemptive rights are generally transferable during the rights trading period for the related offering and may be traded on the ATHEX. Holders in the United States of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares evidenced by ADRs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for any such offering of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act"), is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement with respect to any future offering will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ordinary shares and ADRs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors we may consider appropriate at the time. If holders in the United States of the Bank's ordinary shares and ADRs are not able to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of their shares in any rights offering by us, they might not receive the economic benefit of such rights. In addition, their proportional ownership interests in the Bank will be diluted. 48 Table of Contents 