Item 1A. Risk FactorsCURRENT AND PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS IN GEEKNET SECURITIES SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. IN ADDITION, THESE RISKS ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING OUR COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS OF WHICH WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS 4Table of ContentsOPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND INVESTORS MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF THEIR INVESTMENT. Risks Related To Our e-Commerce BusinessIf ThinkGeek fails to launch new and innovative products, the demand for our products may be limited and our revenue will be adversely affected. In order to attract customers to our site, we must continually release new and innovative products, including products internally developed by Geek Labs. In addition to the direct revenue we derive from product sales, the release of new and innovative products attracts media coverage and drives customers to our site. The successful development, sourcing, manufacturing and merchandising of products is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including:•specific economic conditions relating to ThinkGeek or online advertising spending•the spending habits of our ThinkGeek customers•the performance of our ThinkGeek suppliers•execution by our third party fulfillment center•our ability to retain qualified merchandising, sales and product development personnelThere can be no assurance that our new products will appeal to customers or that demand for these products will be sufficient to generate revenue consistent with our estimates. In addition, there can be no assurance that new products will be developed in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to procure appropriate quantities of such products. If we are unable to deliver new and innovative products that allow us to increase demand, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to grow our ThinkGeek business. See also additional risks related to competition set forth elsewhere in these Risk Factors. Our ThinkGeek e-Commerce business is highly seasonal. In addition, we are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer tastes. Our ThinkGeek business is highly seasonal, with a disproportionate amount of our sales occurring in the fourth quarter which begins on October 1 and ends on December 31. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict our customers' tastes and demands to avoid purchasing too much or too little inventory. If we purchase too much inventory, we may be required to discount those products or write off products we are unable to sell, reducing our gross margins. If we purchase too little inventory, we may fail to meet customer demand and lose potential orders, which will adversely affect our financial results. In addition, when we launch a new product, it is difficult to accurately forecast customer demand. Certain products, especially custom manufactured products, or products purchased from outside the United States, may require significant lead-time, payment or partial payment prior to shipment, and may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection of products and significant inventory levels of certain products and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Failure to properly assess our inventory needs could adversely affect our financial results. We are dependent upon a single third-party fulfillment and warehouse provider. Our customer satisfaction is highly dependent upon fulfillment of orders in a professional and timely manner. Any decrease in the quality of service offered by our fulfillment and warehouse provider will adversely affect our reputation and the growth of our ThinkGeek e-Commerce business. If we fail to realize anticipated operating efficiencies at our third-party fulfillment and warehouse provider, our operating results will be adversely affected.Our ThinkGeek business' ability to receive inbound inventory and ship completed orders efficiently and in a timely manner to our customers is substantially dependent on a single third-party fulfillment and warehouse provider. We 5Table of Contentsship products to customers worldwide using the services of Exel, Inc. (“Exel”), located in Lockbourne, Ohio. Our contract with Exel ends April 26, 2016.If Exel fails to meet our distribution and fulfillment needs, our relationship with and reputation among our ThinkGeek e-Commerce customers will suffer and this will adversely affect our ThinkGeek revenue. Additionally, if Exel is unable to meet our distribution and fulfillment needs, particularly during the holiday season, or our contract with Exel is terminated, we may be required to secure a second-source or replacement fulfillment and warehouse provider. If we fail to secure such a fulfillment and warehouse provider or are unable to secure a fulfillment and warehouse provider on comparable terms our reputation and our ThinkGeek e-Commerce financial results would be adversely affected. In August 2010, we began shipping products to customers worldwide using the services of Exel, located in Lockbourne, Ohio. This change of providers required significant efforts by our ThinkGeek management's engineering and operations teams. In June 2011, we contracted for the build out of additional capacity in order to better meet demand. This additional capacity will allow us to accommodate more products and be more efficient during our peak times. If we are unable to realize anticipated operating efficiencies, our shipping and fulfillment costs may not decline as a percent of revenues and our ThinkGeek gross margins and operating income would be adversely affected.Unplanned system interruptions and capacity constraints could harm our revenue and reputation.Our ThinkGeek business is dependent on the uninterrupted and highly-available operation of our web site. We experience periodic service interruptions with our ThinkGeek web site. Service interruptions may be caused by a variety of factors, including capacity constraints, software design flaws and bugs, and third party denial of service attacks. If we fail to provide customers with such access to our web site at the speed and performance which they require, our ThinkGeek sales and business reputation will be adversely affected. Our systems and operations remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. If our web site experiences frequent or lengthy service interruptions, our business and reputation could be adversely affected. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we implemented a disaster recovery site in Dallas, Texas for the e-Commerce business.We are subject to risks as a result of our reliance on foreign sources of production for certain products.In order to offer cost-effective and innovative products, we rely on manufacturers located outside of the United States, most of which are located in Asia (primarily China), to supply us with sufficient quantities of these products based on our forecasts and to deliver these products in a timely manner. Our arrangements with these manufacturers are generally limited to purchase orders tied to specific lots of goods. We are subject to the risks of relying on products manufactured outside of the United States, including political unrest, trade restrictions, customs and import/export regulations, local business practice and geo-political issues, such as political and social unrest and economic instability. Additionally, significant reliance on foreign sources of production increases the risks relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards, customs and import/export laws and regulations, compliance with domestic or international manufacturing and product safety standards, currency fluctuations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, work stoppages or slowdowns and other labor issues, economic uncertainties including inflation and government regulations, availability and costs of raw materials, potentially adverse tax consequences and other uncertainties. China, in particular, has recently experienced rapid social, political and economic change and further changes may adversely affect our ability to procure our products from Chinese suppliers.Our ability to obtain goods on a cost effective basis is also subject to our ability to maintain relationships with our suppliers and our ability to negotiate and maintain supply arrangements on favorable terms. The Chinese Yuan (“CNY”) exchange rate to the U.S. Dollar (“USD”) has not historically been volatile. In the event that the CNY/USD exchange rate changes substantially, our suppliers could attempt to renegotiate our purchase orders with them and increase our costs. In addition, because our purchases are usually on a case by case basis, we are subject to the risk of unexpected changes in pricing or supply from these suppliers. We may also be unable to develop beneficial relationships with new vendors in the future.We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell on our ThinkGeek web site, which could be costly to defend and subject us to significant damage claims.Some of the products we offer for sale on our ThinkGeek web site such as consumer electronics, toys, computers 6Table of Contentsand peripherals, toiletries, beverages, food items and clothing, may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from product liability and even if some agreements provide for indemnification, it may be prohibitively costly to avail ourselves of the benefits of the protection.Increased focus on sales and use tax could subject us to liability for past sales and cause our future sales to decrease.We do not collect sales or other taxes on shipments of most of our goods into most states in the United States or internationally. The relocation of our fulfillment center or customer service centers or any future expansion of them, along with other aspects of our business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. We do not collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) as applicable on goods and services sold that are delivered outside of the United States. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction e-Commerce companies. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business.Currently, U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states and the U.S. Congress continue to consider initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives are successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on all of our online competitors and decrease our future sales. Illinois and California have both passed such legislation impacting our ability to conduct business in these states through affiliate arrangements.Risks Related To Our Media BusinessIf our Media business fails to attract and retain users, particularly users who create and post original content on our web properties, our financial results will be adversely affected.Our reliance upon user-generated content requires that we develop and maintain tools and services designed to facilitate:•creation of user-generated content•participation in discussion surrounding such user-generated content •evaluation of user-generated content•distribution of user-generated content.If our development efforts fail to facilitate such activities on our web properties, the level of user engagement and interaction will not increase and may decline. Even if we succeed in facilitating such activities on our sites, there can be no assurance that such improvements will be deployed in a timely or cost-effective manner.If we fail to increase user engagement and interaction on our web properties, we will not attract and retain a loyal user base that is desirable to advertisers. Our inability to maintain a loyal user base and the advertisers who desire to reach them which will adversely affect our Media business and our ability to maintain or grow our revenue. We rely on a limited number of Open Source projects for a significant portion of our traffic. If we fail to retain these Open Source projects and attract new Open Source projects, our Media revenue will be adversely affected.We generate revenue from advertisements which are displayed when a visitor engages with SourceForge.net to obtain information and or to download software from an Open Source project. A significant portion of the page views 7Table of Contentson SourceForge.net is generated from a limited number of hosted Open Source projects. The loss of the hosting of an Open Source project may result in a significant loss of page views and result in a loss of revenue. There can be no assurance that these Open Source projects will continue to be hosted on our web sites or that users will continue to be attracted to, view and download these Open Source projects. To the extent that we are unable to retain these Open Source projects on our websites for any reason and/or attract new projects, then our advertising revenue will decline, and our Media revenue may be adversely affected.We intend to expand our offerings in international markets in which we have limited experience and are subject to international business risks.We continue to expand our international operations of our Media business. We currently have salespeople in London, England to manage our sales efforts outside the United States. We also have agreements with business partners to sell our international inventory in Europe, Australia and Asia and may enter into agreements with additional or different firms to sell our international advertising impressions. We rely on the efforts and abilities of our employees and representatives to market our products and services in such markets. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, and manage the personnel necessary to successfully market our products and service and expand our operations into international markets, which may limit the growth of our Media business.In certain international markets, we have little or no operating experience and we may not be successful. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in the development and adoption of the online advertising programs we offer and, as a result, our revenue in those markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. In addition, we face competition in these international markets from established companies that may have a substantial competitive advantage over us because of their more established local brand names and knowledge of consumer preferences. Moreover, as we expand into international markets, our Media business will be subject to foreign business and financial risks, including: •Currency exchange rate fluctuations•Compliance with a variety of international laws and regulations, such as data privacy, employment regulations, trade barriers and restrictions on the import and export of technologies•Absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws to protect our intellectual property rights•New regulatory requirements or changes in policies and local laws that materially affect the demand for our services or directly affect our foreign operations•Local economic and political conditions, including recessions in foreign economies and inflation risk•Civil disturbance, terrorism or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity in other parts of the worldAny of these risks may adversely impact our Media business and adversely impact our revenue and operating results.If our Media business fails to deliver innovative programs and products, including our lead generation program, we may not be able to attract and retain advertisers, which will adversely affect our financial results.Our advertisers continually seek new and innovative advertising products on which to spend their advertising budgets. In order to grow our direct sales revenue, we will need to introduce new and innovative advertising products and programs that appeal to these advertisers. In 2011, we hired individuals focused on continuing to improve our advertising products and programs. In 2010, we hired individuals with experience in lead generation programs to develop our capability to deliver these programs. In 2011, we increased the portion of our Media revenue derived from these lead generation programs and began to develop marketing services programs. If we are unable to continue to execute our lead generation strategy, our Media business revenue will not meet our expectations and our operations will be adversely impacted. The successful development and production of new and innovative advertising products or programs is subject to numerous uncertainties, including our ability to:•enable advertisers to showcase products, services and/or brands to their intended audience and to generate revenue from such audiences8Table of Contents•develop the capability to satisfy advertiser requirements for lead generation programs•anticipate and successfully respond to emerging trends in online advertising•attract and retain qualified marketing and technical personnelThere can be no assurance that our programs and products will appeal to our advertisers or enable us to attract and retain advertisers and generate revenue consistent with our estimates or sufficient to sustain operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new marketing programs and products will be developed in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are unable to deliver innovative marketing programs and products that allow us to expand our advertiser base, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to grow our Media business.The market in which our SourceForge platform operates is becoming more competitive and if we do not compete effectively our Media business could be harmed.Our SourceForge.net platform hosts Open Source software projects and we derive the majority of our Media revenue by selling advertising campaigns on this site. Because the cost to develop and host websites has declined over time, an increasing number of companies, organizations and individuals have begun hosting Open Source code and offering Open Source software development-related services. In addition, Google offers Open Source code hosting capabilities that may be viewed as competitive to SourceForge.net's offering. Because Google enjoys substantial competitive advantages in the online space generally, including powerful brand identity, established marketing relationships, larger visitor base, and greater financial, technical, and other resources, we may be unable to compete effectively with Google's offering. Our competitors, such as Github, may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing Open Source software opportunities, technologies, standards, or user requirements. Because of our competitors' advantages, even if our services are more effective than those of our competitors, users might accept the services of our competitors in lieu of ours. If we fail to compete effectively, our Media business could be materially adversely affected.Decreases or delays in advertising spending could harm our ability to generate advertising revenue, which would adversely affect our financial results.Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Our advertisers' spending patterns tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall macroeconomic conditions, seasonality and company-specific budgeting and buying patterns. Our advertisers are also concentrated in the technology sector and the economic conditions in this sector also impact their spending decisions. Because we derive a large part of our Media revenue from these advertisers, decreases in or delays of advertising spending could reduce our revenue or negatively impact our ability to grow our revenue.If we fail to execute our direct sales strategy, our revenue will be adversely affected.Our direct sales force is increasingly focused on selling our advertising products and lead generation to a select group of advertisers. If we fail to achieve increased spending levels from these advertisers, we may not meet our revenue goals. Additionally, we refer and will continue to refer other advertisers to our ad network partners. If such advertisers do not utilize our ad network partners to advertise on our sites our revenue will be adversely impacted.We face competition from traditional media companies and we may not be included in the advertising budgets of advertisers, which could harm our operating results.We face competition from companies that have better brand awareness and long-term relationships with current and potential advertisers. Advertisers with fixed budgets may allocate only a portion of their budgets to Internet advertising. If we fail to convince these advertisers and their advertising agencies to spend their advertising budgets with us, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on our programs, our operating results would be harmed.We have made and continue to make significant investments in our web properties and services offered but these may fail to become profitable endeavors.We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development and marketing for our 9Table of Contentsweb properties and services offered. Investments in new technology are inherently speculative. We continue to focus on initiatives to accelerate the pace of improvements to our web properties. These efforts require substantial investments of our time and resources and may be hindered by unforeseen delays and expenses. Our efforts may not be successful in achieving our desired objective and, even if we achieve the desired objective, our audience or our advertisers may not respond positively to these improvements. Failure to grow revenue sufficiently to offset the significant investments will materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Unplanned system interruptions, capacity constraints or failure to effect efficient transmission of user communications and data over the Internet could harm our business and reputation.The success of our Media business largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the computer and communications hardware and network systems that power our web properties. We do not currently have a formal disaster recovery plan and substantially all of our computer and communications systems are located in a single data center near Chicago, Illinois. Our systems and operations remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. We plan to begin disaster recovery implementation in 2012.We experience unplanned service interruptions with all our online sites. Service interruptions may be caused by a variety of factors, including capacity constraints, single points of hardware failure, software design flaws and bugs, and third party denial of service attacks. Although we continue to work to improve the performance and uptime of our web properties, and have taken steps to mitigate these risks, we expect that service interruptions will continue to occur from time to time. If our web properties experience frequent or lengthy service interruptions, our business and reputation will be seriously harmed.New technologies could block our advertisements, which would harm our operating results.Technologies have been developed and are likely to continue to be developed that can block the display of our online advertising products. Our Media revenue is derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of advertisements on web pages. As a result, advertisement-blocking technology could reduce the number of advertisements that we are able to deliver and, in turn, our advertising revenues and operating results may also be reduced. Risks Related To Our Financial ResultsCertain factors specific to our businesses over which we have limited or no control may nonetheless adversely impact our total revenue and financial results.The primary factors over which we have limited or no control that may adversely impact our total revenue and financial results include the following:•specific economic conditions relating to ThinkGeek or online advertising spending•the spending habits of our ThinkGeek customers•the discretionary nature of our Media customers' purchase and budget cycles•our ability to deliver advertisements which meet our customers' requirements•the size and timing of Media customer orders•our ability to retain skilled engineering, marketing and sales personnel•our ability to demonstrate and maintain attractive online user demographics•the addition or loss of specific advertisers and the size and timing of advertising purchases by individual customers•our ability to keep our web properties operational at a reasonable costIf our revenue and operating results fall below our expectations, the expectations of securities analysts or the expectations of investors, the trading price of our common stock will likely be materially and adversely affected. You 10Table of Contentsshould not rely on the results of our business in any past periods as an indication of our future financial performance.Future changes in financial accounting standards, including pronouncements and interpretations of accounting pronouncements on revenue recognition, share-based payments, fair value measurements and financial instruments, may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and/or affect our reported results of operations.From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) may issue updates to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. A change in an accounting policy can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting our business, including rules relating to fair value accounting, revenue recognition, share-based payments and financial instruments have recently been revised or are under review. The SEC has announced that they will issue a proposed a roadmap regarding the potential use of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS“). IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). If we fail to adequately monitor and minimize our use of existing cash, we may need additional capital to fund continued operations beyond the next 12 months.We must continue to closely monitor the use of our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. In addition, our existing marketable securities may not provide us with adequate liquidity when needed. While we believe we will not require additional capital to fund continued operations for the next 12 months, we may require additional funding within this time frame, and this additional funding, if needed, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A slowdown in ThinkGeek spending or online advertising or an increased working capital requirement for our ThinkGeek inventory, as well as other factors that may arise, could affect our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds. As a result, we may be required to raise additional funds through private or public financing facilities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing would likely be dilutive to our stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants on our operations and financial condition. Our inability to raise capital when needed could seriously harm our business.We have a history of losses and may incur net losses in the foreseeable future. Failure to attain consistent profitability may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations.We generated a net loss of $(1.2) million million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and we have an accumulated deficit of $(755.9) million as of December 31, 2011. Additionally, we may continue to incur net losses in the future. Failure to attain profitability on a sustained basis may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations beyond the next 12 months.Risks Related To CompetitionOur competition is intense. Our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our revenue and financial results.The market for Internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. Current and new competitors can launch new Internet sites at relatively low cost. We compete with various media businesses for advertising revenue, including newspaper, radio, magazine and Internet media companies. In addition, our ThinkGeek business is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We have many competitors, including other e-Commerce businesses as well as traditional brick and mortar retailers. Increases in shipping costs or the taxation of Internet commerce may make our products uncompetitive when compared with traditional brick and mortar retailers. Additionally, our current and future competitors may have greater resources, more customers and greater brand recognition than we do. These competitors may secure better terms from vendors and adopt more competitive pricing for their products. They may also devote more resources to their technology infrastructure, product development, order fulfillment, distribution facilities and marketing and advertising campaigns. In addition, as we expand into new markets and broaden our product offering, our competition may intensify as our current and future competitors enter into similar markets and offer similar products. Local competitors in these new markets may have substantial competitive advantages because of greater focus on and knowledge of local customers and their preferences and greater brand recognition. 11Table of ContentsIncreased competition in our ThinkGeek and Media businesses could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and financial results. If we do not compete successfully for new users, advertisers and customers, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected.Risks Related To Intellectual PropertyWe are vulnerable to claims that our web properties infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Any resulting claims against us could be costly to defend or subject us to significant damages.We expect that our web properties will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of web properties in different Internet industry segments overlap. The scope of United States patent protection for software is not well defined and will evolve as the United States Patent and Trademark Office grants additional patents. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed that would relate to our products. In addition, we may receive patent infringement claims as companies increasingly seek to patent their software. Our developers may fail to perform patent searches and may therefore unknowingly infringe on third-party patent rights. We cannot prevent current or future patent holders or other owners of intellectual property from suing us and others seeking monetary damages or an injunction against our web offerings. A patent holder may deny us a license or force us to pay royalties. In either event, our operating results could be seriously harmed. In addition, employees hired from competitors might utilize proprietary and trade secret information from their former employers without our knowledge, even though our employment agreements and policies clearly prohibit such practices.Any litigation regarding our intellectual property, with or without merit, could be costly and time consuming to defend, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and cause interruption in our web offerings. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms. In addition, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to offer one or more of our web sites, or services thereon in the United States and abroad and could result in an award of substantial damages against us. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any required license could delay release of our products and increase our costs. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be immediately and materially adversely affected.If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may use our technology and trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue, and increase our costs.We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our web sites, or products and services offered thereon or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary to create sites that compete against ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, and disclosure of our licensed programs may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries.In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. To the extent that we increase our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our web properties and proprietary information will increase.Our collection of trademarks is important to our business. The protective steps we take or have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. We have filed applications for registration of and registered some of our trademarks in the United States and internationally. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. Failure to protect our trademark rights adequately could damage our brand identity and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology and information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and information, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our offerings or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or information. In our ThinkGeek business, we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or designs, 12Table of Contentsor that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. The actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our offerings by others or prevent others from seeking to block sales of our offerings as violations of proprietary rights. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do United States laws. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology and information. Such litigation may be costly and time-consuming and if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party on the basis of intellectual property infringement, our sales and intellectual property rights could adversely be affected and result in a shift of customer preference away from our offerings.In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that equivalent offerings will not be marketed in competition with our offerings, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. Currently, we do not have any software, utility, or design patents and we may not be able to develop proprietary offerings or technologies that are patentable, that any patent, if issued, would provide us with any competitive advantages or would not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not adversely affect our ability to do business. Other Risks Related To Our Overall BusinessWe are exposed to risks associated with worldwide economic slowdowns and related uncertainties. We are subject to macroeconomic fluctuations in the U.S. economy and elsewhere. Concerns about consumer and investor confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness could cause a slowdown in sales revenue. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Recent macroeconomic issues involving the broader financial markets, including the housing and credit system and general liquidity issues in the securities markets, have negatively impacted the economy and may negatively affect our business. In addition, weak economic conditions and declines in consumer spending and consumption may harm our operating results. Purchases of our ThinkGeek products, display advertising and lead generation services are discretionary. If the economic climate deteriorates, customers or potential customers could delay, reduce or suspend their purchases of our products and services. This could impact our business in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and services and reduced or delayed sales. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the recent financial crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in customer payments of outstanding accounts receivable and/or customer insolvencies; counterparty failures; and increased expense or inability to obtain future financing. If negative macroeconomic conditions persist, or if the economy enters a prolonged period of decelerating growth, our results of operations may be harmed. We may be subject to claims as a result of information published on, posted on or accessible from our Internet sites, which could be costly to defend and subject us to significant damage claims.We may be subject to claims of defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement (including contributory infringement) or other claims relating to the information contained on our Internet sites, whether written by third parties or by us.Claims of defamation have been brought against online services in the past and can be costly to defend regardless of the merit of the lawsuit. Although federal legislation protects online services from some claims when third parties write the material, this protection is limited. Furthermore, the law in this area remains in flux and varies from state to state. We receive notification from time to time of potential claims, but have not been named as a party to litigation involving such claims. While no formal defamation complaints have been filed against us to date, our business could be seriously harmed if one were asserted.Claims of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights are common among Internet, media and technology companies because such companies often own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets. Such claims often result in litigation, which is time consuming and can be costly to litigate, regardless of the merits of the claim or the eventual outcome of the claim. In addition, any time one of our online services links to or hosts material in which others allegedly own copyrights, we face the risk of being sued for copyright infringement 13Table of Contentsor related claims. Because hosting of third party content comprises the majority of the online services that we offer, the risk of harm from such lawsuits could be substantial. Intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and may also be expensive to litigate or settle. In addition to substantial defense costs, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue one or more of our services or practices that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We may also acquire licenses or pay royalties in order to continue such practices, which may increase our operating expenses and have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or unauthorized persons disrupt or access our systems.As both of our Media and e-Commerce businesses operate on-line, we are at risk of cyber-attacks. For our Media business, we sell online advertising, and for our eCommerce business, we sell goods online. Our Media and eCommerce businesses involve the use of our proprietary information as well as the storage and transmission of customers' personally identifiable and proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and potential liability. While we take measures to protect personally identifiable information from unauthorized access or disclosure, it is possible that our security controls over personally identifiable information may not prevent improper access or disclosure. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As a result, an unauthorized party may be able to disrupt our operations or obtain access to our data or our customers' personally identifiable information or proprietary data. Due to the nature of sophisticated cyber-attacks, there is a risk that such attack may remain undetected for a period of time. A security breach that leads to disclosure of our proprietary information may compromise our ability to compete in the marketplace by allowing others to use our proprietary information to develop similar or competitive product or services. A security breach that leads to disclosure of user or consumer information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A cyber-attack, such as a denial of service attack, that renders our sites inoperable would result in adverse consequences, including significant loss of revenues. Any security breach may also cause us to expend significant resources to restore system functionality and incur costs to deploy additional personnel, protection technologies and third party consultants to defend against a future security breach. We outsource the operation of our network connectivity and work actively to maintain up-to-date security and defense measures. In 2011, management undertook a review of our security and privacy practices, and the review is ongoing. If any of our outsourcing providers does not perform adequately, we may be exposed to greater risk of a cyber-attack. The European Union has stated it will issue a revised directive in May 2012 regarding customer privacy. We have consulted with outside privacy counsel but the steps needed for and the costs of compliance may reduce our revenue and income. We depend on third parties to provide a number of products and services, subjecting us to significant operational risks. We currently depend on a number of third-party providers, and this reliance subjects us to significant operational risks, any of which could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers should they occur. These risks include •reduced management and control of our data, including the risk of unauthorized disclosure of customer and/or other protected information•reduced control over delivery schedule and quality assurance•misappropriation of our intellectual property •failures by the third parties on whom we rely to comply with all domestic and foreign laws relating to our business14Table of ContentsWe may not detect weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or at all.Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"), we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as well as our disclosure controls and procedures each fiscal year. As of December 31, 2011 , management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. We will need to continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. Because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. We cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more “significant deficiencies” (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required or new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we may not be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls and we may not be able to meet our reporting obligations.If we are unable to implement appropriate systems, procedures and controls, we may not be able to successfully offer our services and grow our business.Our ability to successfully offer our services and grow our business requires an effective planning and management process. We periodically update our operations and financial systems, procedures and controls; however; we still rely on manual processes and procedures that may not scale commensurately with our business growth. Our systems will continue to require automation, modifications and improvements to respond to current and future changes in our business. If we cannot grow our businesses, and manage that growth effectively, or if we fail to implement in a timely manner appropriate internal systems, procedures, controls and necessary automation and improvements to these systems, our businesses will suffer.If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired.Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we may not be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, and the results of our operations. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry, as well as other geographic markets, in which we recruit, is intense. In the Internet and high technology industries, qualified candidates often consider equity awards in compensation arrangements and fluctuations in our stock price may make it difficult to recruit, retain, and motivate employees. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile.The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $15.44 to $30.00 per share and the closing sale price on December 31, 2011, the last trading day of our fourth quarter, was $17.05 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions.In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. 15Table of ContentsAdditionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options.Sales of our common stock by a significant stockholder may cause the price of our common stock to decrease.Several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. If these stockholders were to sell substantial amounts of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. The effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. Investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell a substantial amount of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time.Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information.A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems,including dissemination of our customer's personally identifiable information, caused by breaches in security.System disruptions could adversely affect our future operating results.Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with users, advertisers, merchants and strategic partners will depend on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet channels and network infrastructure. Our Internet advertising revenue relates directly to the number of advertisements delivered to our users. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of Internet pages or slower response times for users would reduce the number of advertisements delivered to such users and reduce the attractiveness of our web properties to users, strategic partners and advertisers or reduce the number of impressions delivered and thereby reduce revenue. In the past year, all of our web properties have experienced unplanned service interruptions. We will continue to suffer future interruptions from time to time whether due to capacity constraints, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, other system failures, rolling blackouts, viruses, hacking or other events. System interruptions or slower response times could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and financial condition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.