Item 1A. Risk Factors This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, as discussed in more detail above under Item 1 “Business—Special Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Gentiva’s Business and Industry Our growth strategy may not be successful. The future growth of our business and our future financial performance will depend on, among other things, our ability to increase our revenue base through a combination of internal growth and strategic ventures, including acquisitions. Future revenue growth cannot be assured, as it is subject to various risk factors, including: • the effects of competition; • the uncertainty of Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance reimbursement; • our ability to generate new and retain existing contracts with major payer sources; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, especially in a business environment experiencing a shortage of clinical professionals; • our ability to identify, negotiate and consummate desirable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms; and • our ability to integrate effectively and retain the business acquired by us through acquisitions we have made or may make. Competition among home healthcare companies is intense. The home health services industry is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other companies in providing home health services, some of which may have greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities. Competing companies may offer newer or different services from those offered by us and may thereby attract customers who are presently receiving our home health services. The cost of healthcare is funded substantially by government and private insurance programs. If this funding is reduced or becomes limited or unavailable to our customers, our business may be adversely impacted. Third-party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging prices charged for healthcare services. We cannot assure you that our services will be considered cost-effective by third-party payers, that reimbursement will be available or that payers’ reimbursement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our services on a profitable basis, if at all. We cannot control reimbursement rates, including Medicare market basket or other rate adjustments, or policies for a significant portion of our business. Possible changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payer mix and payment methodologies, may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The sources and amounts of our patient revenues will be determined by a number of factors, including the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payers. Changes in the case mix of the patients as well as payer mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our profitability. In particular, any significant increase in our Medicaid population or decrease in Medicaid payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates or service levels. Further consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payers may adversely affect our profits. Managed care organizations and other third-party payers have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the United States population are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care 9 Table of Contents organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent that such organizations terminate us as a preferred provider and/or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, private payers, including managed care payers, could seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, thereby potentially reducing our profitability. Gentiva and the healthcare industry continue to experience shortages in qualified home health service employees and management personnel. We compete with other healthcare providers for our employees, both clinical associates and management personnel. As the demand for home health services continues to exceed the supply of available and qualified staff, we and our competitors have been forced to offer more attractive wage and benefit packages to these professionals. Furthermore, the competitive arena for this shrinking labor market has created turnover as many seek to take advantage of the supply of available positions, each offering new and more attractive wage and benefit packages. In addition to the wage pressures inherent in this environment, the cost of training new employees amid the turnover rates may cause added pressure on our operating margins. An economic downturn, state budget pressures, rising unemployment and continued deficit spending by the federal government may result in a reduction in reimbursement and covered services. An economic downturn can have a detrimental effect on our revenues. Historically, state budget pressures have translated into reductions in state spending. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we can expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for our services in the states in which we operate. In addition, an economic downturn, coupled with increased unemployment, may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs as well as the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced reimbursement rates. The existing federal deficit, as well as deficit spending by the government as the result of adverse developments in the economy, the war in Iraq or other reasons, can lead to continuing pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including governmentally funded programs in which we participate, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Such actions in turn may adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience disruption to our business and operations from the effects of natural disasters or terrorist acts. The occurrence of natural disasters, terrorist acts or “mass illnesses” such as the pandemic flu, and the erosion to our business caused by such an occurrence, may adversely impact our profitability. In the affected areas, our offices may be forced to close for limited or extended periods of time, and we may face a reduced supply of clinical associates. We may experience adverse operational impact or incur substantial expenses related to the integration of companies we may acquire. We will incur expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems of companies we may acquire. There may be a large number of systems that must be integrated with those of Gentiva, including information management, purchasing, operations, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll and benefits, fixed asset and lease administration systems and regulatory compliance. While we may assume that a certain amount of expenses would be incurred, factors beyond our control can affect the total amount or the timing of all of the integration expenses. These expenses could exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost and revenue synergies related to the integration of the businesses following an acquisition. Failure to properly integrate acquired systems could cause business disruptions that may materially impact our financial results and operations. 10 Table of Contents If an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets were to occur, our earnings would be negatively impacted. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets as a result of acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets amount to $308.2 million and $250.4 million, respectively, at December 28, 2008. For fiscal year 2008, through September 24, 2008, the Company identified three business segments for reporting purposes and has assigned these segments the appropriate amounts of goodwill and intangible assets based upon allocations of the purchase prices of individual acquisition transactions. As described in the notes to the financial statements, these assigned values are reviewed on an annual basis or at the time events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Should business conditions or other factors deteriorate and negatively impact the estimated realizable value of future cash flows of these business segments, we could be required to write off a substantial portion of our assets. Depending upon the magnitude of the write off, our results of operations could be negatively affected. If we must write off a significant amount of long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. We have long-lived assets consisting of fixed assets, which include software development costs related to various information technology systems, including a new clinical management system. As of December 28, 2008, the information technology systems have not been placed into a fully operational production environment, and therefore these costs are not yet being depreciated. The net carrying value of fixed assets amounted to $63.8 million at December 28, 2008, of which $31.8 million related to capitalized software costs. We review these amounts on an annual basis or at the time events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If a determination that a significant impairment in value of our unamortized long-lived assets occurs, such determination could require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets. Depending upon the magnitude of the write off, our results of operations could be negatively affected. There are risks of business disruption and cost overruns associated with new business systems and technology initiatives. During 2009, we expect to complete the development and commence the implementation of a new clinical management system for use in our Home Health business. This system will involve the use of handheld devices by our clinical associates who are providing care to our patients. The continued development and rollout of this system involves substantial costs relating to salaries and benefits, consulting, travel and training costs. Development and implementation costs in excess of expectations or failure of new systems and other technology initiatives to operate in accordance with expectations could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and operations. We invest in securities that are subject to market risk, and the recent issues in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our assets. At December 28, 2008, $11.1 million of our investments were invested in AAA rated investments in auction-rate debt securities (“ARS”). ARSs are variable-rate debt securities. ARSs have a long-term maturity with the interest rate being reset every 7, 28 or 35 days. The securities trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer. Interest is paid at the end of each auction period. Prior to February 2008, the auction rate securities market was highly liquid. Commencing in February 2008, a substantial number of auctions “failed,” meaning that there was not enough demand to sell the entire issue at auction. The immediate effect of a failed auction is that holders cannot sell the securities and will not be able to access these funds without a loss of principal, unless a future auction on these investments is successful. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, the Company may in the future be required to record impairment charges on these investments. See Notes 2 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 11 Table of Contents We have incurred significant indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, which can affect our liquidity. At the end of fiscal 2008, our indebtedness under the senior term loan under our credit facility was $251 million. As a result of this indebtedness and additional indebtedness we may incur, demands on our cash resources have increased, which could affect our liquidity and, therefore, could have important effects on an investment in our common stock. A prolonged disruption of the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our future access to capital and our cost of capital. The recent extreme volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets in the United States have adversely affected the access to capital and increased the cost of capital. We have used the capital and credit markets for liquidity and to execute our business strategies, which include increasing our revenue base through a combination of internal growth and strategic ventures, including acquisitions. We believe that we have adequate capital and liquidity to conduct any foreseeable initiatives that may develop over the near term; however, if the current economic and market conditions continue or deteriorate further, our future cost of debt or equity capital and future access to capital markets may be adversely affected. The agreement governing our term loan and revolving credit facility contains, and future debt agreements may contain, various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. Our agreement and instruments governing the term loan and revolving credit facility contain, and the agreements and instruments governing any future debt agreements of ours may contain, various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our ability to: • incur more debt; • redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions; • make certain investments; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make acquisitions; • merge or consolidate; • transfer or sell assets; and • make fundamental changes in our corporate existence and principal business. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios. Any failure by us to comply with or maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to our term loan and revolving credit facility or future debt agreements. This could lead to the acceleration of the maturity of our outstanding loans and the termination of the commitments to make further extensions of credit. If we were unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business at our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. 12 Table of Contents We have risks related to obligations under our insurance programs. We are obligated for certain costs under various insurance programs, including employee health and welfare, workers’ compensation and professional liability. We may be subject to workers’ compensation claims and lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. We maintain various insurance programs to cover these risks with insurance policies subject to substantial deductibles and retention amounts. We also may be subject to exposure relating to employment law and other related matters for which we do not maintain insurance coverage. We believe that our present insurance coverage and reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures; however, should we experience a significant increase in losses resulting from workers’ compensation, professional liability or employee health and welfare claims, the resulting increase in provisions and/or required reserves could negatively affect our profitability. Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation Legislative and regulatory actions resulting in changes in reimbursement rates or methods of payment from Medicare and Medicaid, or implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services, may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating margins. Reimbursement to us for our hospice services is subject to Medicare cap amounts, which are calculated by Medicare. In fiscal 2008, 66 percent of our total net revenues were generated from Medicare and Medicaid and Local Government programs. The healthcare industry is experiencing a trend toward cost containment, as the government seeks to stabilize or reduce reimbursement and utilization rates. In addition, the timing of payments made under these programs is subject to regulatory action and governmental budgetary constraints. For certain Medicaid programs, the time period between submission of claims and payment has increased. Further, within the statutory framework of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, there are a substantial number of areas subject to administrative rulings and interpretations that may further affect payments made under those programs. Additionally, the federal and state governments may in the future reduce the funds available under those programs or require more stringent utilization and quality reviews of providers. Moreover, we cannot assure you that adjustments from regulatory actions or Medicare or Medicaid audits, including the payment of fines or penalties to the federal or state governments, will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or profitability. Overall payments made by Medicare to us for hospice services are subject to cap amounts calculated by Medicare. Total Medicare payments to us for hospice services are compared to the cap amount for the hospice cap period, which runs from November 1 of one year through October 31 of the next year. CMS usually announces the cap amount in the month of August in the cap period and not at the beginning of the cap period. We must estimate the cap amount for the cap period before CMS announces the cap amount and are at risk if our estimate exceeds the later announced cap amount. CMS can also make retroactive adjustments to cap amounts announced for prior cap periods. Payments to us in excess of the cap amount must be returned by us to Medicare. A second hospice cap amount limits the number of days of inpatient care to not more than 20 percent of total patient care days within the cap period. Our revenues and profitability can be negatively affected if we exceed the cap amounts. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations and violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and, in some cases, local regulation. Compliance with these regulatory requirements, as interpreted and amended from time to time, can increase operating costs or reduce revenue and thereby adversely affect the financial viability of our business. Because these laws are amended from time to time and are subject to interpretation, we cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. Failure to comply with current or future regulatory requirements could also result in the imposition of various remedies, including fines, the revocation of licenses or decertification. Unanticipated increases in operating costs or reductions in revenue could adversely affect our liquidity. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to periodic audits and requests for information by the Medicare and Medicaid programs or government agencies, which have various rights and remedies against us if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. The operation of our home health services business is subject to federal and state laws prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including laws containing criminal provisions, which prohibit filing false claims or making false statements in order to receive payment or obtain certification under Medicare and Medicaid programs, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Violation of these criminal provisions is a felony punishable by imprisonment and/or fines. We may also be subject to fines and treble damage claims if we violate the civil provisions that prohibit knowingly filing a false claim or knowingly using false statements to obtain payment. State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 expanded the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader provisions for the exclusion of providers from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We have established policies and procedures that we believe are sufficient to ensure that we will operate in substantial compliance with these anti-fraud and abuse requirements. In April 2003, we received a subpoena from the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General, Office of Investigations (“OIG”). The subpoena seeks information regarding our implementation of settlements and corporate integrity agreements entered into with the government, as well as our treatment on cost reports of employees engaged in sales and marketing efforts. With respect to the cost report issues, the government has preliminarily agreed to narrow the scope of production to the period from January 1, 1998 through September 30, 2000. In February 2004, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) seeking additional information related to the matters covered by the OIG subpoena. We have provided documents and other information requested by the OIG and DOJ pursuant to their subpoenas and similarly intend to cooperate fully with any future OIG or DOJ information requests. To our knowledge, the government has not filed a complaint against us. While we believe that our business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid programs criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. The imposition of fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are also subject to federal and state laws that govern financial and other arrangements among healthcare providers. These laws often prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical products and services. Furthermore, some states restrict certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. Many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as a provider of, medical care. These laws vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. Possible sanctions for violation of any of these restrictions or prohibitions include loss of licensure or eligibility to participate in reimbursement programs and civil and criminal penalties. We face additional federal requirements that mandate major changes in the transmission and retention of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The enactment of HIPAA expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Among the standards that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security and electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. Although HIPAA was intended to ultimately reduce 14 Table of Contents administrative expenses and burdens faced within the healthcare industry, we believe that implementation of this law has resulted in additional costs. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile and experience substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. The price of our common stock may substantially fluctuate based on a number of factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • changes, or proposed changes, in government reimbursement rates and regulations; • stock market conditions generally and specifically as they relate to the home health services industry; • developments in litigation or government investigations; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts who follow our stock; and • economic and political uncertainties in the marketplace generally. Significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may adversely affect our shareholders. Provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and our rights agreement could delay or prevent a change in control of Gentiva, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our rights agreement could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of Gentiva, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management without the consent of the board of directors. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include: • the ability of the board of directors to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of the preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • the prohibition on the right of shareholders to call meetings or act by written consent and limitations on the right of shareholders to present proposals or make nominations at shareholder meetings. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we have a rights agreement that has the effect of deterring take-overs of Gentiva without the consent of the board of directors. Generally, once a party acquires 10 percent or more of our common stock, the rights agreement may cause that party’s ownership interest in us to be diluted unless the board of directors consents to the acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 