Risk Factors This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, as discussed in more detail above under Item 1 “Business—Special Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your investment in our Company’s securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Credit Agreement and Senior Notes. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately $988.1 million. We also had then an additional $125 million (since reduced to $110 million as a result of an amendment to our Credit Agreement entered into on March 6, 2012) available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities (without taking into account approximately $41.8 million of letters of credit that we have issued). Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on the Senior Notes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged than we are. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business 10 may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be able to provide sufficient proceeds, to meet these obligations or to execute our business strategy successfully. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, our Credit Agreement requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants or failure to maintain or satisfy a financial ratio or test could result in a default under one or more of these agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Agreement as well as our unsecured indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. Our inability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants under our Credit Agreement may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, if we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment. Our Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. While we were in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2011, changes in our business climate and uncertainties involving Medicare reimbursement may affect our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants under our Credit Agreement. On March 6, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our Credit Agreement, which, among other material changes, increased our permitted maximum consolidated leverage ratio and decreased our required minimum consolidated cash interest coverage ratio. If we do not meet our financial covenants and are unable to 11 obtain a waiver or amendment of our Credit Agreement or other permitted remedies, we would default under our Credit Agreement which would allow our lenders to accelerate the amounts we owe under our Credit Agreement, or avail themselves of other remedies under the Credit Agreement, including foreclosure on the collateral securing our debt. As a result, any breach of our financial covenants may have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. Despite our high indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur additional amounts of debt, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Under the terms of our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Senior Notes, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had $125 million (since reduced to $110 million as a result of an amendment to our Credit Agreement entered into on March 6, 2012) available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility (without taking into account approximately $41.8 million of letters of credit that we have issued). These borrowings and any other secured indebtedness permitted under agreements governing our indebtedness would be effectively senior to the Senior Notes and their guarantees to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. We may not be able to achieve the benefits that we expect to realize as a result of our acquisition of Odyssey or other future acquisitions. Failure to achieve such benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements, or other synergies from our acquisition of Odyssey or other future acquisitions, either in the amount or within the time frame that we expect. In addition, the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we expect. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies, and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • the use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect; • increases in other expenses unrelated to the acquisition, which may offset the cost savings and other synergies from the acquisition; • our ability to eliminate duplicative back office overhead and redundant selling, general, and administrative functions; and • our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration, particularly in connection with any headcount reduction. Specifically, while we expect the acquisition of Odyssey to create significant opportunities to reduce our combined operating costs, these cost savings reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management, and it is possible that our actual results will not reflect these estimates and assumptions within our anticipated time frame or at all. If we fail to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies, or revenue enhancements, our financial results may be adversely affected, and we may not generate the cash flow from operations that we anticipate. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we may acquire in the future with Gentiva. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and achieve targeted financial results is dependent on our ability to successfully integrate businesses that we may acquire in the future with Gentiva. The process of integrating acquired businesses, involves risks. These risks include, but are not limited to: 12 • demands on management related to the significant increase in the size of our business; • diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices; • difficulties in conforming the acquired company’s accounting policies to ours; • retaining employees who may be vital to the integration of departments, information technology systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, procedures and maintaining uniform standards, such as internal accounting controls, procedures, and policies; and • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may result in reduced levels of revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency than might have been achieved if we had not acquired such businesses. In addition, any future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. Our growth strategy may not be successful. The future growth of our business and our future financial performance will depend on, among other things, our ability to increase our revenue base through a combination of internal growth and strategic ventures, including acquisitions. Future revenue growth cannot be assured, as it is subject to various risk factors, including: • our ability to achieve anticipated operational benefits, including leveraging referral sources; • the effects of competition; • pending initiatives concerning the levels of Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance reimbursement and uncertainty concerning reimbursements in the future; • our ability to generate new and retain existing contracts with major payer sources; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, especially in a business environment experiencing a shortage of clinical professionals; • our ability to identify, negotiate and consummate desirable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms; • our ability to integrate effectively and retain the business acquired by us through acquisitions we have made or may make; and • the requirement for obtaining Medicare licenses and certificates of need to operate in certain jurisdictions. An element of our growth strategy is expansion of our business by developing new hospice programs in new markets and growth in our existing markets. This aspect of our growth strategy may not be successful, which could adversely impact our growth and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • identify markets that meet our selection criteria for new hospice programs; • hire and retain a qualified management team to operate each of our new hospice programs; • manage a large and geographically diverse group of hospice programs; • become Medicare and Medicaid certified in new markets; • generate sufficient hospice admissions in new markets to operate profitably in these new markets; or 13 • compete effectively with existing programs in new markets. According to the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (“MedPAC”), an estimated 35 percent of hospice programs in the United States are not-for-profit programs. Accordingly, it is likely that a number of acquisition opportunities may involve hospices operated by not-for-profit entities. In recent years, several states have increased review and oversight of transactions involving the sale of healthcare facilities and businesses by not-for-profit entities. Although the level of review varies from state to state, the current trend is to provide for increased governmental review, and in some cases approval, of transactions in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility or business. This increased scrutiny may increase the difficulty in completing, or prevent the completion of, acquisitions in some states in the future. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is heavily dependent on referrals from physicians, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, adult care centers, hospitals, managed care companies, insurance companies and other patient referral sources in the communities where our home health and hospice locations serve, as well as on our ability to maintain good relations with these referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer home health or hospice patients to us and may refer their patients to other home health or hospice care providers, or not at all. Our growth and profitability depend significantly on our ability to provide good patient and family care, to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of home health and hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably. Moreover, we cannot assure you that awareness or acceptance of home health and hospice care will increase. Competition among home healthcare and hospice companies is intense. The home health and hospice services industry is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other companies in providing home health services and hospice services, some of which may have greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities. Competing companies may offer newer or different services from those offered by us and may thereby attract customers who are presently receiving our home health or hospice services. In many areas in which our home health and hospice programs are located, we compete with a large number of organizations, including: • community-based home health and hospice providers; • national and regional companies; • hospital-based home health agencies, hospice and palliative care programs; and • nursing homes. Some of our current and potential competitors have or may obtain significantly greater marketing and financial resources than we have or may obtain. Relatively few barriers to entry exist in our local markets. Accordingly, other companies, including hospitals and other healthcare organizations that are not currently providing home health and hospice care, may expand their services to include home health services, hospice care or similar services. We may encounter increased competition in the future that could negatively impact patient referrals to us, limit our ability to maintain or increase our market position and adversely affect our profitability. 14 Many states have certificate of need laws or other regulatory provisions that may adversely impact our ability to expand into new markets and thereby limit our ability to grow and to increase our net patient service revenue. Many states have enacted certificate of need laws that require prior state approval to open new healthcare facilities or expand services at existing facilities. Those laws require some form of state agency review or approval before a hospice may add new services or undertake significant capital expenditures. New York has additional barriers to entry. New York places restrictions on the corporate ownership of hospices. Accordingly, our ability to operate in New York is restricted. These laws could adversely affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and facilities in existing markets. Further consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payers may adversely affect our profits. Managed care organizations and other third-party payers have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the United States population are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent that such organizations terminate us as a preferred provider and/or engage our competitors as preferred or exclusive providers, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, private payers, including managed care payers, could seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, thereby potentially reducing our profitability. The cost of healthcare is funded substantially by government and private insurance programs. If this funding is reduced or becomes limited or unavailable to our customers, our business may be adversely impacted. Third-party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging prices charged for healthcare services. We cannot assure you that our services will be considered cost-effective by third-party payers; that reimbursement will be available or that payer reimbursement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our services on a profitable basis, if at all. We cannot control reimbursement rates, including Medicare market basket or other rate adjustments. On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“Affordable Care Act”), and, on March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively the “Health Care Reform Act”). The Health Care Reform Act mandates important changes to reimbursement for home health and hospice, including reductions in reimbursement levels. See “Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation” beginning on page 18. On October 31, 2011, CMS issued a final rule to update and revise Medicare home health payments for calendar year 2012. This is comprised of a net market basket update of 1.4 percent, which includes the 1 percent reduction mandated by the Affordable Care Act, offset by a case mix creep adjustment of 3.79 percent in 2012. The net effect of these changes decreases the base rate for an episode of service by 2.39 percent. In addition, the final rule states that the Medicare home health rates for calendar year 2013 will include an additional negative 1.32 percent change in case mix adjustment. The final rule also shifts case mix points from high case mix and high therapy episodes to low case mix and non-therapy episodes. The shift from high therapy episodes and the removal of two hypertension codes may also have a negative impact on our revenues in 2012 in addition to the base rate decrease. There can be no assurance these changes will not adversely affect us. 15 Possible changes in the case-mix of patients, as well as payer mix and payment methodologies, may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The sources and amounts of our patient revenues will be determined by a number of factors, including the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payers. Changes in the case-mix of the patients as well as payer mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our profitability. In particular, any significant increase in our Medicaid population or decrease in Medicaid payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates or service levels. The healthcare industry continues to experience shortages in qualified home health service employees and management personnel. We compete with other healthcare providers for our employees, both clinical associates and management personnel. As the demand for home health services and hospice services continues to exceed the supply of available and qualified staff, we and our competitors have been forced to offer more attractive wage and benefit packages to these professionals. Furthermore, the competitive arena for this shrinking labor market has created turnover as many seek to take advantage of the supply of available positions, each offering new and more attractive wage and benefit packages. In addition to the wage pressures inherent in this environment, the cost of training new employees amid the turnover rates may cause added pressure on our operating margins. A continued economic downturn, state budget pressures, sustained unemployment and continued deficit spending by the federal government may result in a reduction in reimbursement and covered services. A continued economic downturn can have a detrimental effect on our revenues. Historically, state budget pressures have translated into reductions in state spending. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we can expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for our services in the states in which we operate. In addition, an economic downturn, coupled with sustained unemployment, may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs as well as the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced reimbursement rates. The existing federal deficit, as well as deficit spending by the government as the result of adverse developments in the economy or other reasons, can lead to continuing pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including government-funded programs in which we participate, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Such actions in turn may adversely affect our results of operations. A prolonged disruption of the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our future access to capital and our cost of capital. The continued volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets in the United States have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. We have used the capital and credit markets for liquidity and to execute our business strategies, which include increasing our revenue base through a combination of internal growth and strategic ventures, including acquisitions. We believe that we have adequate capital and liquidity to conduct any foreseeable initiatives that may develop over the near term; however, should current economic and market conditions continue or deteriorate further, our future cost of debt or equity capital and future access to capital markets may be adversely affected. If an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets were to occur, our earnings would be negatively impacted. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets as a result of acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets amounted to $641.7 million and $214.9 million, respectively, at 16 December 31, 2011. We have assigned to our reportable business segments the appropriate amounts of goodwill and intangible assets based upon allocations of the purchase prices of individual acquisition transactions. As described in the notes to our financial statements, these assigned values are reviewed on an annual basis or at the time events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. During the third quarter of 2011, we performed an interim impairment test of goodwill and intangible assets, in response to changes in business climate, including uncertainties around Medicare reimbursement. As a result of the process, we recorded a non-cash charge of approximately $602.1 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and certain identifiable intangible assets to their estimated fair values. Should business conditions or other factors deteriorate and negatively impact the estimated realizable value of future cash flows of our business segments, we could be required to further write off a substantial portion of our assets. Depending upon the magnitude of the write-off, our results of operations could be negatively affected. If we must write off a significant amount of long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. We have long-lived assets consisting of fixed assets, which include software development costs related to various information technology systems. The net carrying value of fixed assets amounted to $46.2 million at December 31, 2011, which included deferred software developments costs of $5.7 million primarily related to replacement of the Company’s financial and human resources systems. We review these amounts on an annual basis or at the time events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In connection with the Odyssey acquisition, we conducted a strategic evaluation of our various field operating systems to review alternatives towards achieving a comprehensive platform, capable of handling both our Home Health and Hospice business segments. During the third quarter of 2011, we completed our review of alternatives to replacing various field operating systems and, in connection with that review, recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $40.3 million related to developed software. In addition, we conducted a review of real estate we owned in Dothan, Alabama, which indicated that the estimated fair value of the real estate was lower than the carrying value, and we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $0.9 million. If a future determination that a significant impairment in value of our long-lived assets has occurred, such determination could require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets. Depending upon the magnitude of the write-off, our financial results could be negatively affected. There are risks of business disruption and cost overruns associated with new business systems and technology initiatives. We implemented new financial, payroll and human resources systems throughout 2011. Implementation and future development costs in excess of expectations or the failure of new systems and other technology initiatives to operate in accordance with expectations could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and operations. We have risks related to obligations under our insurance programs. We are obligated for certain costs under various insurance programs, including employee health and welfare, workers’ compensation, auto and professional liability. We may be subject to workers’ compensation claims and lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. We maintain various insurance programs to cover these risks with insurance policies subject to substantial deductibles and retention amounts. We also may be subject to exposure relating to employment law and other related matters for which we do not maintain insurance coverage. We believe that our present insurance coverage and reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures; however, should we experience a significant increase in losses resulting from workers’ compensation, professional liability or employee health and welfare claims, the resulting increase in provisions and/or required reserves could negatively affect our profitability. An adverse ruling against us in certain litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business, including collective and class action lawsuits alleging violations by us of the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and certain state wage and hour laws 17 and putative shareholder class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits alleging violations by us of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and may be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. The damages claimed against us in such litigation are substantial. A more detailed description of these lawsuits and others is contained in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in the pending cases. In addition to the possibility of an adverse outcome, such litigation is costly to manage, investigate and defend, and the related defense costs, diversion of management’s time and related publicity may adversely affect the conduct of our business and the results of our operations. We may experience disruption to our business and operations from the effects of natural disasters or terrorist acts. The occurrence of natural disasters, terrorist acts or “mass illnesses” such as the pandemic flu, and the erosion to our business caused by such an occurrence, may adversely impact our profitability. In the affected areas, our offices may be forced to close for limited or extended periods of time, and we may face the reduced availability of clinical associates. Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation Federal or state healthcare reform laws could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Health Care Reform Act. This culmination of a year-long legislative process will have a significant impact on the health care delivery system. Much of that impact, specifically as related to home health services and hospice services, is unknown. The Health Care Reform Act, among other things, sets out a plan for a type of universal healthcare coverage. A number of states, including California, Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and Pennsylvania, are also contemplating significant reform of their health insurance markets. Other states have mounted legal challenges to the implementation of certain aspects of the new federal law in their respective states. The Health Care Reform Act, along with possible changes at the state level, will affect both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. Both the federal law and the state proposals will increase the number of insured persons by expanding the eligibility levels for public programs and compelling individuals and employers to purchase health coverage. At the same time, these laws seek to reform the underwriting and marketing practices of health plans. These laws could further increase pricing pressure on existing commercial payers. As a result, commercial payers may likely seek to lower their rates of reimbursement for the services we provide. State proposals are still being debated in various legislatures and the legal challenges to the Health Care Reform Act are subject to various appeals. The Health Care Reform Act mandates changes to home health and hospice benefits under Medicare. For home health, the Health Care Reform Act mandates creation of a value-based purchasing program, development of quality measures, a decrease in home health reimbursement beginning with federal year 2014 that will be phased-in over a four-year period, and a reduction in the outlier cap. In addition, the Health Care Reform Act requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to test different models for delivery of care, some of which would involve home health services. It also requires the Secretary to establish a national pilot program for integrated care for patients with certain conditions, bundling payment for acute hospital care, physician services, outpatient hospital services (including emergency department services), and post-acute care services, which would include home health. The Health Care Reform Act further directs the Secretary to rebase payments for home health, which will result in a decrease in home health reimbursement beginning in 2014 that will be phased-in over a four-year period. The Secretary is also required to conduct a study to evaluate cost and quality of care among efficient home health agencies regarding access to care and treating Medicare beneficiaries with 18 varying severity levels of illness, and provide a report to Congress no later than March 1, 2014. Beginning October 1, 2012, the annual market basket rate increase for hospice providers will be reduced by a formula that could cause payment rates to be lower than in the prior year. Given the recent enactment of the Health Care Reform Act, and taking into account proposed state reforms and legal challenges, we cannot predict how our business will be affected by the full implementation of these and future actions. The Health Care Reform Act, in connection with state initiatives, may increase our costs, decrease our revenues, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct our business, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Legislative and regulatory actions resulting in changes in reimbursement rates or methods of payment from Medicare and Medicaid, or implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services, may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating margins. Reimbursement to us for our hospice services is subject to Medicare cap amounts, which are calculated by Medicare. In 2011 and 2010, 90 percent and 86 percent, respectively, of Gentiva’s total net revenues were generated from Medicare, Medicaid and local government programs. The healthcare industry is experiencing a trend toward cost containment, as the government seeks to stabilize or reduce reimbursement and utilization rates. In addition, the timing of payments made under these programs is subject to regulatory action and governmental budgetary constraints. For certain Medicaid programs, the time period between submission of claims and payment has increased. Further, within the statutory framework of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, there are a substantial number of areas subject to administrative rulings and interpretations that may further affect payments made under those programs. Additionally, the federal and state governments may in the future reduce the funds available under those programs or require more stringent utilization and quality reviews of providers. These pressures may be increased as a result of the Health Care Reform Act. Moreover, we cannot assure you that adjustments from regulatory actions or Medicare or Medicaid audits, including the payment of fines or penalties to the federal or state governments, will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or profitability. Overall payments made by Medicare to us for hospice services are subject to cap amounts calculated by Medicare. Total Medicare payments to us for hospice services are compared to the cap amount for the hospice cap period, which runs from November 1 of one year through October 31 of the next year. CMS usually announces the cap amount in the month of July or August in the cap period and not at the beginning of the cap period. We must estimate the cap amount for the cap period before CMS announces the cap amount and are at risk if our estimate exceeds the later announced cap amount. CMS can also make retroactive adjustments to cap amounts announced for prior cap periods. Payments to us in excess of the cap amount must be returned by us to Medicare. In May 2011, CMS announced that the Medicare cap would be $24,528 per beneficiary for the 2011 cap year, which is from November 1, 2010 through October 31, 2011. A second hospice cap amount limits the number of days of inpatient care to not more than 20 percent of total patient care days within the cap period. As part of its review of the Medicare hospice benefit, MedPAC recommended to Congress in its “Report to Congress: Medicare Payment Policy—March 2009” (“2009 MedPAC Report”) that Congress direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to change the Medicare payment system for hospice to: • have relatively higher payments per day at the beginning of a patient’s hospice care and relatively lower payments per day as the length of the duration of the hospice patient’s stay increases; • include relatively higher payments for the costs associated with patient death at the end of the hospice patient’s stay; and • implement the payment system changes in 2013, with a brief transitional period. 19 In January 2012, MedPAC reaffirmed the foregoing recommendations and recommended that the hospice rate should be increased by 0.5 percent for fiscal 2013. In addition, the Health Care Reform Act includes several provisions that would adversely impact hospice providers, including a provision to reduce the annual market basket update for hospice providers by a productivity adjustment. We cannot predict at this time whether the recommendations included in the 2009 MedPAC Report will be enacted or whether any additional healthcare reform initiatives will be implemented or whether the Health Care Reform Act or other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system will adversely affect our revenues. Further, due to budgetary concerns, several states have considered or are considering reducing or eliminating the Medicaid hospice benefit. Reductions or changes in Medicare or Medicaid funding could significantly reduce our net patient service revenue and our profitability. On October 31, 2011, CMS issued a final rule to update and revise Medicare home health payments for calendar year 2012. This is comprised of a net market basket update of 1.4 percent, which includes the 1 percent reduction mandated by the Affordable Care Act, offset by a case mix creep adjustment of 3.79 percent in 2012. The net effect of these changes decreases the base rate for an episode of service by 2.39 percent. In addition, the final rule states that the Medicare home health rates for calendar year 2013 will include an additional negative 1.32 percent change in case mix adjustment. The final rule also shifts case mix points from high case mix and high therapy episodes to low case mix and non-therapy episodes. The shift from high therapy episodes and the removal of two hypertension codes may also have a negative impact on our revenues in 2012 in addition to the base rate decrease. Reductions in amounts paid by government programs for our services or changes in methods or regulations governing payments could cause our net patient service revenue and profits to materially decline. Approximately 35 percent of our hospice patients reside in nursing homes. Changes in the laws and regulations regarding payments for hospice services and “room and board” provided our hospice patients residing in nursing homes could reduce our net patient service revenue and profitability. For hospice patients receiving nursing home care under certain state Medicaid programs who elect hospice care under Medicare or Medicaid, the state must pay us, in addition to the applicable Medicare or Medicaid hospice per diem rate, an amount equal to at least 95 percent of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate for “room and board” furnished to the patient by the nursing home. We contract with various nursing homes for the nursing homes’ provision of certain “room and board” services that the nursing homes would otherwise provide Medicaid nursing home patients. We bill and collect from the applicable state Medicaid program an amount equal to at least 95 percent of the amount that would otherwise have been paid directly to the nursing home under the state’s Medicaid plan. Under our standard nursing home contracts, we pay the nursing home for these “room and board” services at 100 percent of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate. Government studies conducted in the last several years have suggested that the reimbursement levels for hospice patients living in nursing homes may be excessive. In particular, the federal government has expressed concern that hospice programs may provide fewer services to patients residing in nursing homes than to patients living in other settings due to the presence of the nursing home’s own staff to address problems that might otherwise be handled by hospice personnel. Because hospice programs are paid a fixed per diem amount, regardless of the volume or duration of services provided, the government is concerned that hospice programs may be increasing their profitability by shifting the cost of certain patient care services to nursing homes. The reduction or elimination of Medicare payments for hospice patients residing in nursing homes would significantly reduce our net patient service revenue and profitability. In addition, changes in the way nursing homes are reimbursed for “room and board” services provided to hospice patients residing in nursing homes could affect our ability to obtain referrals from nursing homes. A reduction in referrals from nursing homes would adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability. 20 We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations and violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and, in some cases, local regulation. Compliance with these regulatory requirements, as interpreted and amended from time to time, can increase operating costs or reduce revenue and thereby adversely affect the financial viability of our business. Because these laws are amended from time to time and are subject to interpretation, we cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. Failure to comply with current or future regulatory requirements could also result in the imposition of various remedies, including fines, the revocation of licenses or decertification. Unanticipated increases in operating costs or reductions in revenue could adversely affect our liquidity. The Senate Finance Committee conducted an inquiry into certain of our practices, and the SEC has commenced an investigation relating to our participation in the Medicare Home Health Prospective Payment System. In a letter dated May 12, 2010, the United States Senate Finance Committee requested information from us regarding our Medicare utilization rates and amount of therapy services furnished to each beneficiary. The letter was sent to all of the publicly-traded home healthcare companies mentioned in a Wall Street Journal article that explored the relationship between CMS home health policies and the utilization rates of some home health agencies. As part of our initial production of documents, on May 26, 2010, the Senate Finance Committee requested supplemental information relating to our compliance program, policies and procedures and billing manuals. We responded to this request as well as to supplemental requests for information. On October 3, 2011, the Senate Finance Committee released its report on its inquiry into the home health therapy practices of publicly-traded home healthcare companies. The report was generally critical of certain practices of certain of the companies, including Gentiva. We maintain our belief that we have provided and are providing the highest quality of care and have received and continue to receive payment within the standards set forth by the reimbursement system established by CMS. We are unable to assess the probable outcome or potential liability, if any, arising from this matter on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. We do not believe that an estimate of a reasonably possible loss or range of loss can be made for this matter at this time. Additionally, on July 13, 2010, the SEC informed us that it had commenced an investigation relating to our participation in the Medicare Home Health Prospective Payment System, and, on July 16, 2010, we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting certain documents in connection with its investigation. Similar to the Senate Finance Committee request, the SEC subpoena, among other things, focused on issues related to the number of and reimbursement received for therapy visits before and after changes in the Medicare reimbursement system, relationships with physicians, compliance efforts including compliance with fraud and abuse laws, and certain documents sent to the Senate Finance Committee. We responded to the SEC’s request. We are unable to assess the probable outcome or potential liability, if any, arising from the matter. There can be no assurances that we will not experience negative publicity with respect to these matters, that fines or other penalties will not be imposed by the SEC or that an investigation by other governmental agencies may not be initiated for which we could incur fines or other losses as a result, including a reduction in reimbursement for certain services we perform. If Odyssey fails to comply with the terms of its Corporate Integrity Agreement, it could subject us to substantial monetary penalties or suspension or termination from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Odyssey entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of Health and Human Services, which became effective on February 15, 2012, concurrent with the 21 execution of a settlement agreement with the United States, acting through the DOJ and on behalf of the OIG. The CIA imposes certain auditing, self-reporting and training requirements that Odyssey must comply with. If Odyssey fails to comply with the terms of its CIA, it could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and/or suspension or termination from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The imposition of monetary penalties would adversely affect Odyssey’s and our profitability. A suspension or termination of its participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs would have a material adverse affect on Odyssey’s and our profitability and financial condition as substantially all of Odyssey’s net patient service revenue is attributable to payments received from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If any of our home health or hospice programs fails to comply with the Medicare conditions of participation, that program could be terminated from the Medicare program, thereby adversely affecting our net patient service revenue and profitability. Each of our home health or hospice programs must comply with the extensive conditions of participation of the Medicare benefit. If any of our home health or hospice programs fails to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that program may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that home health or hospice program then fails to institute a plan of correction and correct the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that program could be terminated from receiving Medicare payments. For example, under the Medicare hospice program, each of our hospice programs must demonstrate that volunteers provide administrative and direct patient care services in an amount equal to at least 5 percent of the total patient care hours provided by its employees and contract staff at the hospice program. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of volunteers at one of our hospice programs to meet this requirement, that program could be terminated from the Medicare benefit if the program fails to address the deficiency within the applicable correction period. Any termination of one or more of our home health or hospice programs from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the conditions of participation could adversely affect our patient service revenue and profitability and financial condition. We believe that we are in compliance with the conditions of participation; however, we cannot predict how surveyors will interpret all aspects of the Medicare conditions of participation. We are subject to certain ongoing investigations, and we are subject to periodic audits and requests for information by the Medicare and Medicaid programs or government agencies, which have various rights and remedies against us if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. The operation of our home health services business and hospice services business is subject to federal and state laws prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including laws containing criminal provisions, which prohibit filing false claims or making false statements in order to receive payment or obtain certification under Medicare and Medicaid programs, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Violation of these criminal provisions is a felony punishable by imprisonment and/or fines. We may also be subject to fines and treble damage claims if we violate the civil provisions that prohibit knowingly filing a false claim or knowingly using false statements to obtain payment. State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and the Health Care Reform Act expanded the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader provisions for the exclusion of providers from Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state health care programs. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act requires providers, such as home health agencies and hospice providers, to notify the Secretary of Health and Human Services, fiscal intermediary, contractor or other appropriate person of any overpayment and the reason for the overpayment, and to return the overpayment, within the later of 60 days from the time the overpayment is identified or the due date of the provider’s cost report. Failure to comply may result in prosecution under the false claims act and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. 22 CMS has contracted with various Third Party Administrators (“TPAs”) including Recovery Audit Contractors (“RACs”), Zone Program Integrity Contractors (“ZPICs”) and others to perform post-payment reviews of health care providers. For example, in January 2010, CMS announced that it has approved two issues for the RACs to begin reviewing with respect to hospice providers. These initial hospice reviews focus on durable medical equipment services and other Medicare Part A and B services provided to hospice patients that are related to a patient’s terminal prognosis and the financial obligation of the hospice provider to determine whether the hospice provider arranged for and paid for the services as required. Various states have also begun to engage TPAs to conduct post-payment reviews of Medicaid claims data. We expect in the future that CMS and the states will likely expand the scope of the reviews conducted by the TPAs. We cannot predict whether reviews by TPAs of our home health and hospice programs’ reimbursement claims will result in material recoupment’s, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For a description of certain governmental investigations to which Odyssey is currently subject, please see Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Although we believe we have established policies and procedures that are sufficient to help ensure that we will operate in substantial compliance with anti-fraud and abuse requirements, in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of laws, rules and regulations governing the healthcare industry could subject our current business practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs, increase our operating expenses and distract our management. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program payments, suffer civil and criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. We are also subject to federal and state laws that govern financial and other arrangements among healthcare providers. Federal law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt, directly or indirectly, of remuneration to induce, arrange for, or in return for, the referral of federal health care program beneficiaries for items or services paid for by a federal health care program. State laws also prohibit such payments for Medicaid beneficiaries and some states have expanded anti-kickback statutes. The federal law known as the “Stark Law” prohibits certain financial arrangements with physicians. State laws often prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical products and services. Furthermore, some states have enacted laws similar to the Stark Law, which restrict certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. Many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as a provider of, medical care. These laws vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. Possible sanctions for violation of any of these restrictions or prohibitions include loss of licensure or eligibility to participate in reimbursement programs, civil and criminal penalties, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. We face additional federal requirements (and their additional costs) that mandate major changes in the transmission and retention of health information and in notification requirements for any health information security breaches. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The enactment of HIPAA also expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Among the standards that the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) 23 has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security and electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. Although HIPAA was intended to ultimately reduce administrative expenses and burdens faced within the healthcare industry, we believe that implementation of this law has resulted in additional costs. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”), enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, effective February 22, 2010, sets forth health information security breach notification requirements and increased penalties for violation of HIPAA. The HITECH Act requires patient notification for all breaches, media notification of breaches of over 500 patients and at least annual reporting of all breaches to the Secretary of HHS. Penalties under the HITECH Act range from $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 for the first tier of sanctions to a fourth-tier sanction minimum of $50,000 per violation and an annual maximum of $1.5 million for the identical violation. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile and experience substantial fluctuations, and an investor could lose all or part of his or her investment. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market price for our common stock has been volatile. For example, during 2011 the market price for a share of our common stock ranged from a low of $2.81 to a high of $29.21. During 2010, the market price for a share of our common stock ranged from a low of $18.93 to a high of $30.88. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • our operating and financial performance; • changes, or proposed changes, in government reimbursement rates and regulations; • stock market conditions generally and specifically as they relate to the home health services industry; • developments in litigation or government investigations; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts who follow our stock; • economic and political uncertainties in the marketplace generally; and • future issuances of common stock or other securities. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of their shares of our common stock only upon the sale of the shares. Except for a special cash dividend paid in 2002, we have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Future payments of dividends, if any, and the amount of the dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors from time to time based on our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Additionally, our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Senior Notes contain restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends. See “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.” Therefore, an investor in our common stock would be able to obtain an economic benefit from purchasing our common stock only if the trading price of the shares increases after such purchase and the investor sells the shares at the increased price. 24 Provisions in our organizational documents, Delaware law and our debt agreements could delay or prevent a change in control of Gentiva, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws and anti-takeover provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control in Gentiva, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management without the consent of the Board of Directors. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include: • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of the preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • the prohibition on the right of stockholders to call meetings or act by written consent and limitations on the right of stockholders to present proposals or make nominations at stockholder meetings. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing our Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. See “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 