Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. If any of such events should occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. Our pending bankruptcy raise questions as to our ability to continue as a going concern and may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities and preserve the value of our equity. On March 31, 2009, we, and our principal subsidiaries, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our bankruptcy filing was made after unsuccessful efforts to resolve certain alleged financial covenant defaults asserted by our second lien secured creditor and in the wake of Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and sharp declines in the price of oil and natural gas which, together, resulted in our revenues and net income being below that originally projected at the time of our acquisition of the Harvest Companies. At December 31, 2009, and as of this filing, we continued to operate as debtors-in-possession in the Chapter 11 case. While we currently have pending our Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization that provides, among other things, for the preservation of our existing equity and a payment of certain amounts presently owing to creditors, there is no assurance that our plan of reorganization will ultimately be confirmed and become effective, nor is there any assurance that the ultimate terms of our exit from bankruptcy will preserve the rights of our existing equity holders in whole or at all. Accordingly, our equity holders continue to be subject to a risk that we will not be able to successfully emerge from bankruptcy or that rights of the equity holders will be diminished substantially or eliminated entirely. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to find and develop reserves. We incurred substantial indebtedness in acquiring our properties. At December 31, 2009, our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and term loan totaled $131.3 million, including $117.7 million of principal and accrued interest owing under our term loan with Wayzata which bears interest at 20% per annum and $13.6 million owing under our Revolving Credit Agreement. 16 Our leverage and the current and future restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations and restrictions, along with our operation under the oversight of the bankruptcy court, could have important consequences. For example, they could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is at variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in any of our debt agreements, including an event of default if such event is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of future cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those who have proportionately less debt. Further, while the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization reflects our agreement in principal with Wayzata regarding the restructuring of the existing Revolving Credit Agreement and Wayzata Credit Agreement, the restructured debt facilities provided for thereunder each mature April 30, 2012. Accordingly, even if we are successful in our efforts to reorganize under Chapter 11 and preserve the interests of our equity holders, as contemplated by the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization, we believe that we will be effectively required to seek alternative financing to support our drilling program and operations and to take out the indebtedness owed to Wayzata on or prior to the maturity date thereof. If we are unable to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to support our existing operations and development program during the pendency of the Chapter 11 case or following exit from bankruptcy. Further, if we are unable to successfully restructure or refinance our debt in the Chapter 11 case, we may be required to liquidate some or all of our properties. In either of such events, we and our shareholders could suffer substantial impairment in the value of our holdings, including the potential complete loss of such holdings. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure financing on acceptable terms, or at all, that we will be able to restructure or refinance our existing debt on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be able to successfully operate during the pendency of the Chapter 11 case or following the Chapter 11 case, any of which could result in a total loss to our company and our shareholders. Because we have a limited history operating our existing properties, you may not be able to evaluate our current and future business prospects accurately. We acquired our principal properties in July 2008 and, since March 31, 2009, have operated on a curtailed basis as debtors-in-possession. Accordingly, we have a limited operating and financial history upon which you can base an evaluation of our current and future business. The results of exploration, development, production and operation of our properties may differ from that of prior owners. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations due to events beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance. Our future performance will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, legislative, operating and other business factors, many of which we cannot control, such as general economic and financial conditions in our industry or the economy at large. Those factors, particularly the sharp decline in the global economy and the accompanying drop in oil and natural gas prices, resulted in certain alleged covenant defaults under our credit facilities with Macquarie and Wayzata and the eventual action on our part to seek protection under Chapter 11. 17 Even if we are successful in emerging from bankruptcy, we will remain subject to the same risks as lead to our prior alleged covenant defaults and bankruptcy. A significant reduction in operating cash flow resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition, or other events could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or further refinancing our indebtedness or seeking equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Saratoga Resources, Inc.—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We expect to have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. Pursuant to our business plan, we expect to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas properties. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We intend to primarily finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations, cash on hand and available credit under our revolving credit agreement. However, if our capital requirements vary materially from those reflected in our projections, we may require additional financing. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. Without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned natural gas and oil exploration and development program and this will adversely affect the recovera bility and ultimate value of our natural gas and oil properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete potential acquisitions or to capitalize on other business opportunities. We have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by general economic conditions The disruption experienced in U.S. and global credit markets during second half of 2008 and subsequent global economic downturn has resulted in projected decreases in demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in a sharp drop in energy prices, and has affected the availability and cost of capital. Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of the financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. At this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent the actions taken by the U.S. government to date and other measures being implemented or contemplated, will mitigate the effects of the crisis. From an operating standpoint, the current crisis has resulted in a steep decline in the price we receive for oil and natural gas and reduced revenues and profitability. Our reduced profitability arising from the global economic disruption was a principal factor, along with the effects of hurricanes, in the alleged non-compliance with various financial covenants in our existing debt facilities and our 2009 filing for protection under the Chapter 11. While commodity prices have recovered a portion of the decline experience in late 2008 and early 2009, should the U.S. and global economies experience further weakness, our financial position may deteriorate along with our ability to operate profitably and our ability to obtain financing to support operations and the cost and terms of same, is unclear. Risks Associated with Acquisitions and Our Risk Management Program We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. We acquired our principal properties in July 2008 and our business plan includes pursuit of additional acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties in the future. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a larger organization; • coordinating potentially geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • an increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. 18 The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, we face the risk of identifying, competing for and pursuing other acquisitions, which takes time and expense and diverts management’s attention from other activities. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our prior acquisition and from future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher than unexpected acquisition and operating costs or other difficulties, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in market prices. If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize the anticipated cash flows from our acquisitions. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price risk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. If we fail to manage the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently ant icipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. Following the acquisition by Wayzata of all rights under our Revolving Credit Agreement, in February 2010, all of our existing hedges were unwound resulting in our current position of being totally unhedged and, therefore, subject to commodity price risk. Assuming the Modified Third Amended Plan of Reorganization becomes effective, the Amended Revolving Credit Agreement that will also become effective limits our hedging, without consent of Wayzata, to 60% of production. If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated, causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. 19 Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would affect our financial results and impede growth. Our future revenues, profitability and cash flow will depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil and natural gas price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • level of global oil and natural gas exploration and productivity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our expected future revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we have periodically entered into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production and intend to enter into such transactions in the future. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices or that counterparties to hedging transactions will be able to meet their requirements in those hedging transactions. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our properties will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Any inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in the reserve reports summarized herein. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 20 Unless we replace crude oil and natural gas reserves our future reserves and production will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production will depend on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we are unable to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We also may not be successful in raising funds to acquire additional reserves. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that could give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases may be acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oil field services typically fluctuates based on demand for those services. While we have historically had excellent relationships with oil field service companies, our Chapter 11 filing may strain our relationships with certain oil field service companies and there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The geographic concentration of our properties subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting the Louisiana Gulf Coast specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Louisiana Gulf Coast means that some or all of the properties could be affected should the region experience: • severe weather; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, the oil and gas properties that we acquired in July 2008 were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike, which required the prior owners of the properties, in the case of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and us, in the case of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, to spend a considerable amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there may be potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. 21 Because all or a number of the properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other producers who have properties over a wider geographic area. Drilling for natural gas and oil is a speculative activity any involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. We engage in exploration and development drilling activities. Any such activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons. In addition to a failure to find oil or natural gas, drilling efforts can be affected by adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Therefore, the successful drilling of a gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, could cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells could impede our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of inherent operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses due to costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we will review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. 22 Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets or delay production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In offshore operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms that we own or operate or that are owned and operated by others and, where facilities are owned and operated by others, the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering s ystem capacity. When that occurs, we will be unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and gas and realization of revenues. We may not be the operator on all of our future properties and therefore may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we may not serve as operator of all planned wells. We currently operate all of our properties. However, it is possible that we will not serve as operator of all of the properties we may acquire in the future. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. 23 Our insurance may not protect us against all business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance policies are economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if possible. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe is appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks, including high-cost business interruption insurance and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental ri sks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of a number of recent catastrophic events like the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita. As a result, insurance costs have increased significantly from the costs that similarly situated participants in this industry have historically incurred. Insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005, insurance underwriters may no longer insure Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. A number of industry participants have previously maintained business interruption insurance. This insurance may not be economically available in the future, which could adversely impact business prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and adversely impact our operations. If an accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations — including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage — occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the United States and the Gulf of Mexico are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to laws and regulations addressing, among others, land use and lease permit restrictions, bonding and other financial assurance related to drilling and production activities, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental and safety matters, plugging and abandonment of wells and associated infrastructure after production has ceased, operational reporting and taxation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can subject us to governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injuries and property and natural resources damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with the requirements of these laws and reg ulations, and future laws or regulations, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could increase such compliance costs. Regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; • incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. 24 Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate our contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many countries as well as several states and regions of the U.S. have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning of natural gas and oil, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for some of our services or products in the future. See “Business — Regulatory Matters.” Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with many of the wells for which we are the operator. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process may be adversely impacting drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on alleg ations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing groundwater or causing other damage. These bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states have adopted or are considering similar disclosure legislation. 25 The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would prohibit private energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions. ACESA would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC's expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. The Chairman of the CFTC has announced that the CFTC intends to conduct hearings to determine whether to set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite supply, particularly energy commodities , such as crude oil, natural gas and other energy products. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. In addition, the Treasury Department recently has indicated that it intends to propose legislation to subject all OTC derivative dealers and all other major OTC derivative market participants to substantial supervision and regulation, including by imposing conservative capital and margin requirements and strong business conduct standards. Derivative contracts that are not cleared through central clearinghouses and exchanges may be subject to substantially higher capital and margin requirements. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictio ns on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Other Risks We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect future operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key operations personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our exploitation strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated or the decommissioning be accelerated, such costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 