Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Oilsands Quest Inc. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Government Regulations and Retention of Permits, Leases and Licenses The business of resource exploration and development is subject to substantial regulation under Canadian federal, provincial and local laws relating to the exploration for, and the development, upgrading, marketing, pricing, taxation, and transportation of oil sands bitumen and related products and other matters. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of oil sands exploration and development operations could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that income tax laws, royalty regulations, environmental regulations and government incentive programs related to the permits in Saskatchewan, oil sands exploration licenses in Saskatchewan, the permits in Alberta and the Eagles Nest Prospect and the oil sands industry generally, will not be changed in a manner which may adversely affect our progress and cause delays, or cause the inability to explore and develop, resulting in the abandonment of these interests. Alberta's new Land-Use Framework, which is to be implemented under the Alberta Land Stewardship Act ("ALSA"), sets out the Government of Alberta's approach to managing Alberta's land and natural resources to achieve long-term economic, environmental and social goals. ALSA contemplates the creation of regional plans which could amend or extinguish previously issued regulatory permits, licenses, approvals and authorizations in order to achieve or maintain an objective or policy resulting from the implementation of a regional plan. The Government of Alberta is expected to develop a regional plan for each of seven regions in the province and has identified the Lower Athabasca Regional Plan ("LARP") as a priority. The Company's properties in Alberta are within the LARP's boundaries. The LARP is expected to incorporate regional thresholds for air emissions, water use and land disturbance to control cumulative effects of industrial development, and guide future resource decisions while considering social and economic impacts. The final LARP is expected to be sent to the Alberta Cabinet for approval in mid 2011. In Saskatchewan, a new Environmental Management and Protection Act, 2010 has been passed by the Legislature but not yet proclaimed. The new Act will include authority for the Saskatchewan Environmental Code, which adopts a new results-based regulatory framework for managing and protecting the environment. It is anticipated that the Act and the Code will be proclaimed in 2011. It is possible that the LARP in Alberta and the new Act and Code in Saskatchewan may negatively impact our ability to conduct operations on certain properties or limit or prohibit development due to environmental limits and thresholds. In addition, enhanced operating practices required to be undertaken by us in response to the LARP and the new Act and Code may increase operating costs and such costs may further increase in the future if there are further changes to the prescribed operating Practices. 10 The Species at Risk Act, or SARA, was enacted by the Government of Canada as a means to manage species of special concern to prevent them from becoming extinct, endangered or threatened. The woodland caribou has been designated as a species under threat in the Province of Alberta. Pursuant to the SARA, lands that fall within our oilsands leases have been designated as sensitive habitat for caribou. We have undertaken enhanced operating practices within the designated areas with a view to protecting the threatened caribou population. Permits, leases, licenses and approvals are required from a variety of regulatory authorities at various stages of exploration and development. There can be no assurance that the various government permits, leases, licenses and approvals sought will be granted in respect of our activities or, if granted, will not be cancelled or will be renewed upon expiry. There is no assurance that such permits, leases, licenses and approvals will not contain terms and provisions which may adversely affect our exploration and development activities. Our exploration permits in Saskatchewan do not give us the right to produce and will require conversion to a lease prior to the expiry of the permits. On May 27, 2011, we received approval for the third and final possible one-year extensions to May 31, 2012. We are also in discussion with the crown to convert these permits to licenses under the 1969 regulations and then to lease prior to the expiry of these permits. Currently, the Company is working with the regulators to assess an issue relating to the re-abandonment of early exploration core holes. It is possible that the outcome of such assessment could result in cancellation of the permits if the Company does not comply with the governing regulations. Further, if the Company cannot remediate these core holes to industry and regulatory standards, our ability to commercially develop the Axe Lake reservoir may be limited. Certain First Nations and Metis people have treaty and aboriginal rights, and claim aboriginal title, in relation to our permit and lease lands in Alberta and Saskatchewan and other lands that are potentially affected by our activities. The Governments of Canada, Alberta and Saskatchewan have a duty to consult with those aboriginal people in relation to actions and decisions which may impact those rights and claims and, in certain cases, have a duty to accommodate their concerns. These duties have the potential to adversely affect our ability to obtain permits, leases, licenses and other approvals, or the terms and conditions of those approvals, which could adversely impact our progress and ability to explore and develop our properties. Abandonment and Reclamation Obligations We are responsible for compliance with terms and conditions of environmental and regulatory approvals and all laws and regulations regarding the abandonment of a project and reclamation of its lands at the end of its economic life, which abandonment and reclamation costs may be substantial. A breach of such approvals or laws may result in the issuance of remedial orders, the suspension of approvals, the seizure of posted security or the imposition of fines and penalties, including an order for cessation of operations at the site until satisfactory remedies are made. All delineation wells are abandoned and reclaimed immediately and these costs are included with our exploration costs incurred. Our estimated abandonment and reclamation costs could change as the reclamation requirements will be a function of regulations in place at the time. Revisions to estimated asset retirement obligations can result from changes in retirement cost estimates and changes in the estimated timing of abandonment. In the future, we may determine it prudent or be required by applicable regulatory approvals or laws to establish and fund one or more reclamation funds to provide for payment of future abandonment and reclamation costs. We record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation when there is a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset and the liability can be reasonably estimated. The legal obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty may exist about the timing and/or method of settlement that may be beyond the Company’s control. This uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement is factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists to reasonably estimate the fair value. The amount of asset retirement obligation recorded reflects the expected costs, taking into account the probability of particular scenarios. The difference between the upper end of the range of these assumptions and the lower end of the range can be significant, and consequently changes in these assumptions could have a material effect on the fair value of asset retirement obligations and future losses in a period of change. If the Company is unable to re-abandon the early exploration core holes to industry and regulatory standards, it could result in the cancellation of permits or limit our ability to develop the reservoir. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the price of our common shares may be affected We are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that needs to be addressed, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s report on internal control over financial reporting that reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting may reduce the price of our common shares. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements may result in litigation and government enforcement actions We have restated our consolidated financial statements and other financial information for the years ended April 30, 2008 and 2007 and the interim periods from July 31, 2008 through January 31, 2009 primarily with respect to the accounting treatment of our August 2006 acquisition of a non-controlling interest (35.92%) of OQI Sask which together with our 64.08% interest resulted in a 100% interest in OQI Sask. We have also restated our consolidated financial statements and other financial information for the interim period ended July 31, 2009 with respect to accounting for stock-based compensation. The restatement of our prior financial statements may expose us to risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions, including the risk that the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the restatement which could result in the Company having to further restate its prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies who have been unable to provide current public information or who have restated previously filed financial statements. Such litigation is complex and could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to our history of operating losses, we are uncertain that we will be able to maintain sufficient cash to accomplish our business objectives The consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. During the fiscal years ended April 30, 2011 and 2010 we suffered net losses of $316 million and $64 million, respectively. At April 30, 2011, there was stockholders’ equity and working capital of $140 million and $4 million, respectively. There is no assurance that we can generate net income, generate revenues or successfully explore and exploit our properties. Significant amounts of capital will be required to explore and develop our permit lands in Saskatchewan and Alberta and our oil sands exploration licenses in Saskatchewan. Our reservoir development and exploration activities over the next few months will be focused on preparing to execute the SAGD pilot at Axe Lake and on designing and executing our Wallace Creek seismic program. To secure the financing necessary for such activities, we intend to conduct the Rights Offering. There is no assurance that the Rights Offering will generate the additional capital necessary to finance these activities. Nor can we assure you that the sale of additional equity capital, borrowing funds or selling a portion of our interest in our assets can be successfully completed. Finally, there is no assurance that the Rights Offering or any additional equity capital or borrowing required will be obtainable on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delays or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects. In particular, if the Rights Offering is not successful, our ability to conduct our operations will be significantly constrained, and we may need to cease our exploration and development activities altogether. Equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. As a result of these risks we have concluded there is significant doubt related to our ability to continue as a going concern. Management anticipates that the Company will be able to fund its activities at a reduced level through January 2012 with its cash and cash equivalents as at April 30, 2011. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we become unsuccessful in implementing these plans. The impact of disruptions in the global financial and capital markets on our ability to obtain financing The market events and conditions that transpired in 2008 and 2009, including disruptions in the international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of global economic conditions, have, among other things, caused significant volatility in commodity prices. These events and conditions caused a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulted in the collapse of, and government intervention in, numerous major banks, financial institutions and insurers, and created a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. These factors have negatively impacted enterprise valuations and have impacted the performance of the global economy. Although credit markets, equity markets, commodity markets and the United States and global economies have somewhat stabilized (and in some instances experienced substantial recoveries), some prominent government officials, economists and market commentators have expressed concerns regarding the durability of the recovery over the near and medium term, particularly as the fiscal stimulus that was utilized by the world's governments to combat the global financial crises is withdrawn over time in the coming months and years. Although we expect to meet our near term liquidity needs with our working capital on hand, we will continue to need further funding to achieve our business objectives. In the past, the issuance of equity securities has been the major source of capital and liquidity for us. The recent conditions in the global financial and capital markets have limited the availability of this funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. 11 Status and Stage of Reservoir Test Program The reservoir test program is currently at the early stages of its planned implementation schedule. There is a risk that the program will not be completed on time or on budget or at all. Additionally, there is a risk that the program may have delays, interruption of operations or increased costs due to many factors, including, without limitation: breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; construction performance falling below expected levels of output or efficiency; design errors; challenges to, or inability to access in a timely or economic fashion; contractor or operator errors; non-performance by third-party contractors; labour disputes, disruptions or declines in productivity; increases in materials or labour costs; inability to attract sufficient numbers of workers; delays in obtaining, or conditions imposed by, regulatory approvals; changes in program scope; violation of permit requirements; disruption in the supply of energy; transportation accidents, disruption or delays in availability of transportation services or adverse weather conditions affecting transportation; unforeseen site surface or subsurface conditions; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, storms or explosions. Our business plan is highly speculative and its success depends, in part, on exploration success on the permit, license and lease lands and the development of identified discoveries Our business plan is focused primarily on the exploration for and development of oil sands deposits on our permitted, licensed and leased lands in the Provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta. Exploration itself is highly speculative. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in oil sands exploration and development, including identification of commercial projects, selection of optimal recovery processes for successful production, operation and revenue uncertainties, market sizes, profitability, market demand, commodity price fluctuations and the ability to raise further capital to fund activities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks. Access to Infrastructure Production from our lease, license, and permit lands will depend upon certain infrastructure that does not currently exist in close proximity to where we currently anticipate to locate our initial projects and such infrastructure, if put in place, may be operated by others. Such infrastructure will include, without limitation, the following: pipelines for the transportation of natural gas and certain feedstock to our site and the transportation of bitumen and other petroleum products we produce to upgrading facilities and markets for sale; and electricity transmission and distribution systems for the provision of electricity. The failure to have any of this infrastructure in place on economic terms will negatively impact the operation of any potential commercial project and will adversely affect the ability to convert our resources into reserves. Access to Markets By the time we have a commercial project ready for start-up, it will likely have been preceded by other projects which began development at an earlier time and are more advanced in terms of production. As a result, preferred markets for our products may have already been taken up or upgraders or refiners may lack sufficient capacity to process our products in a timely or economic fashion. Location of Discovery Areas With the exception of Eagles Nest, all of Oilsands Quest’s prospective areas are located east of what has to date been considered the established bitumen resources that are exploitable by in situ production techniques in the Athabasca oil sands area. Similar to some other bitumen accumulations within the eastern portion of Alberta, the Axe Lake, Raven Ridge and portions of the Wallace Creek areas lack a distinct overlying shale formation. The absence of this may preclude the use of certain high-pressure in situ recovery methods, but the quality of the reservoirs and high bitumen saturations present at the Axe Lake Raven Ridge and Wallace Creek areas provide the potential for extraction using a number of recovery methods, including SAGD. However, there can be no assurances that any such recovery method will be successful in enabling us to recover significant volumes of bitumen from our reservoirs. See "-- Status and Stage of Reservoir Test Program". Independent Reviews Although third parties have prepared reviews, reports and projections relating to the evaluation, viability and expected performance of our resources and plans for development thereof, no assurance can be given that these reports, reviews and projections and the assumptions on which they are based will, over time, prove to be accurate. Personnel The design, development and construction of the reservoir test program and any subsequent pilot and commercial projects will require experienced executive and management personnel and operational employees and contractors with expertise in a wide range of areas. No assurance can be given that all of the required personnel and contractors with the necessary expertise will be available. Should other oil sands projects or expansions proceed in the same time frame as Oilsands Quest programs and projects, we will have to compete with these other projects and expansions for qualified personnel and such competition may result in increases to compensation paid to such personnel or in a lack of qualified personnel. Any inability of Oilsands Quest to attract and retain qualified personnel may delay or interrupt the design, development and construction of, and commencement of operations at, the reservoir test program and any subsequent pilot and commercial projects. Sustained delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of Oilsands Quest. Operational Hazards Our exploration and development activities are subject to the customary hazards of operation in remote areas, such as fires, explosions, gaseous leaks, migration of harmful substances, blowouts and spills. A casualty occurrence might result in the loss of equipment or life, as well as injury, property damage or other liability. While we maintain limited insurance to cover current operations, our property and liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover any such casualty occurrences or disruptions. Equipment failures could result in damage to our facilities and liability to third parties against which we may not be able to fully insure or may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or for other reasons. Our operations could be interrupted by natural disasters such as forest fires or other events beyond our control. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and results of our operations. Competitive Risks The Canadian and international petroleum industry is highly competitive in all aspects, including the exploration for, and the development of, new sources of supply, the acquisition of oil interests and the distribution and marketing of petroleum products. The petroleum industry also competes with other industries in supplying energy, fuel and related products to consumers. Some of these industries benefit from lighter regulation, lower taxes and subsidies. In addition, certain of these industries are less capital intensive. A number of competing companies are engaged in the oil sands business and are actively exploring for and delineating their resource bases. Some of our competitors have announced plans to begin production of synthetic crude oil, or to expand existing operations. If these plans are effected, they could materially increase the supply of synthetic crude oil and other competing crude oil products in the marketplace and adversely affect plans for development of our lands. The Loss of current management may make it difficult for us to operate Investors must rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and directors. The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and key personnel. We do not maintain key-man insurance for any of our employees. The unexpected loss or departure of any of our key officers and employees could be detrimental to our future success. Fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rates may have a material adverse impact Commodity prices and costs related to the Company’s activities, if and when applicable, will generally be based on a U.S. dollar market price. Fluctuations in the U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rate may cause a negative impact on revenue and costs and could have a material adverse impact on the Company. THE BUSINESS OF OIL SANDS EXPLORATION IS SUBJECT TO MANY RISKS Nature of Oil Sands Exploration and Development Oil sands exploration and development are very competitive and involve many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. As with any petroleum property, there can be no assurance that commercial deposits of bitumen will be produced from our permit lands in Saskatchewan and Alberta, oil sands exploration licenses in Saskatchewan, or the Eagles Nest Prospect. 12 Furthermore, the marketability of any resource will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, market fluctuations of prices, proximity and capacity of pipelines and processing equipment, equipment and labour availability and government regulations (including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production, importing and exporting of oil and gas, land use and environmental protection). The extent of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The viability of our business plan, business operations, and future operating results and financial condition are and will be exposed to fluctuating prices for oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals Prices of oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals are affected by supply and demand, which can fluctuate significantly. Factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, or conflicts, economic conditions and actions by major oil-exporting countries. Price fluctuations can have a material effect on our ability to raise capital and fund our exploration activities, our potential future earnings, and our financial condition. For example, in a low oil and gas price environment oil sands exploration and development may not be financially viable or profitable. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, or rising costs, could result in our exploration projects being delayed or cancelled, as well as the impairment of certain assets. Reserves and Resources We have not yet established any reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of bitumen resources and reserves, including many factors beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that the recovery of bitumen will be realized. In general, estimates of resources and reserves are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the resources and reserves estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from estimated results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of resources and reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of reserves and resources, the classification of such resources and reserves based on risk of recovery, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of a resource is economically or legally extractable. ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE MAY IMPOSE SUBSTANTIAL COSTS ON US Our operations are or will be subject to stringent federal, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to improving or maintaining environmental quality. Environmental laws often require parties to pay for remedial action or to pay damages regardless of fault. Environmental laws also often impose liability with respect to divested or terminated operations, even if the operations were terminated or divested many years ago. Our exploration activities and drilling programs are or will be subject to extensive laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, land use, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, operational safety, toxic substances and other matters. Exploration and drilling is also subject to risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and disposal of waste products. Compliance with these laws and regulations will impose substantial costs on us and will subject us to significant potential liabilities. In addition, should there be changes to existing laws or regulations, our competitive position within the oil sands industry may be adversely affected, as many industry players have greater resources than we do. We are required to obtain various regulatory permits and approvals in order to explore and develop our properties. The absence of a distinct overlying shale formation on portions of our leases may make it more difficult or costly to obtain regulatory approvals. There is no assurance that regulatory approvals for exploration and development of our properties will be obtained at all or with terms and conditions acceptable to us. Third Party Liability and Environmental Liability The Company’s operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damage. We could be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, and the payment of such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The release of harmful substances in the environment or other environmental damages caused by our activities could result in us losing our operating and environmental permits or inhibit us from obtaining new permits or renewing existing permits. We currently have a limited amount of insurance and, at such time as we commence additional operations, we expect to be able to obtain and maintain additional insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden environmental damages, but we do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damage that occurs over time is available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by environmental damage is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of our properties in the event of certain environmental damage. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations which could affect our ability to operate as planned. Emissions Regulations Development of our assets is expected to result in the emission of greenhouse gases ("GHGs") and other pollutants. On April 26, 2007, the Government of Canada announced a Regulatory Framework for Air Emissions and Other Measures to Reduce Air Emissions, or the “Framework”, which outlined proposed new requirements governing the emission of GHGs and other industrial air pollutants, including sulphur oxides, volatile organic compounds, particulate matter and possibly additional sector-specific pollutants in accordance with the Notice. The Framework introduced further, but not full, detail on new GHG and industrial air pollutant limits and compliance mechanisms that will apply to various industrial sectors, including oil sands extraction, starting in 2010. The Framework proposed GHG emission-intensity reduction targets of six percent per year from 2007 to 2010, followed by annual reductions of two percent through 2015. On March 10, 2008, the Canadian Federal Government elaborated on the Framework with the release of its "Turning the Corner" policy document. It was contemplated that new regulations would take effect January 1, 2010. Draft regulations were expected to be available for public comment in the Fall of 2008 but have not yet been released, and it is not known when they will be released or implemented. The proposed regulatory framework provides that existing oil sands facilities in operation by 2004 will be subject to an 18% emission intensity reduction requirement commencing in 2010, with 2% additional annual reductions thereafter until 2020. Facilities commissioned between 2004 to 2011 or facilities existing prior to 2004 which between 2004 and 2011 have had a major expansion resulting in an increase of 25% or more in physical capacity or which undergo a significant change to processes will be exempt from the 2010 emissions intensity reduction target of 18% but will have to report their emissions each year. After their third year of operation they will be required to reduce their emissions intensity by 2% annually from a baseline emissions standard which is to be determined by reference to a sector-specific cleaner-fuel standard. For oil sands facilities, it is contemplated that there will be specific cleaner-fuel standards based on the use of natural gas for each of mining, in situ and upgrading. However, an incentive to deploy carbon capture and storage (CCS) has been included in the proposed regulatory framework. CCS is where carbon dioxide is separated from a facility’s process or exhaust gas emissions before they are emitted, transferred from the facility to a suitable storage location, and injected into deep underground geological formations and monitored to ensure they do not escape into the atmosphere. If a facility commissioned between 2004 and 2011 is built such that it is able or ready to undertake CCS, then it will be exempt from the cleaner-fuel standard until 2018 and it will only be required to reduce its emission-intensity by 2% per year from its actual emissions. In situ oil sands projects and oil sands upgraders built after 2011 must have their GHG emissions profiles by 2018 equivalent to that of facilities employing CCS technology. The proposed regulatory framework further encourages widespread use of CCS by 2018 by crediting emitters that make use of CCS technology for investments in pre-certified CCS projects up to 100% of their regulatory obligations through 2017. The proposed compliance mechanisms include an emissions credit trading system for GHGs and certain industrial air pollutants, and several options for companies to choose among to meet GHG emission intensity reduction targets and encourage the development of new emission reduction technologies, including the option of making payments into a technology fund, an emissions and offset trading system, limited credits for emission reductions created between 1992 and 2006, and international emission credits under the clean development mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol for up to 10% of each firm’s regulatory obligation. On January 30, 2010, the Government of Canada submitted to the United Nations Framework on Climate Change a non-legally binding commitment under the Copenhagen Accord to reduce Canada’s emissions of GHGs by 17% from 2005 emission levels. This is a significant change from previous international commitments of a 20% reduction in emissions from 2006 levels by 2020. The Government of Canada signaled that a new proposed national emission reduction target is to be met. It is not known whether the previously announced proposed regulatory Framework will proceed or be replaced with a new regulatory framework. We believe that it is reasonably likely that new federal legislation requiring emissions reductions similar to the Framework will be enacted in Canada around the same time as similar legislation is enacted in the United States. We also believe that such federal legislation could have a material effect on the development of our assets. 13 On April 20, 2007, the Government of Alberta passed the Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act establishing a framework for GHG emission reductions. The Specified Gas Emitters Regulation created under the Act requires facilities that emit more than 100,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e annually to reduce their emission intensity starting July 1, 2007 by 12 percent from 2003-2005 levels. New facilities in operation less than eight years will be required to achieve these reductions over the fourth to eighth years of operation. These obligations may be met by in-house reductions, the purchase of certain emission reductions or offset credits or a contribution of $15 per tonne of GHG emissions to a provincial technology fund. We believe that the costs of complying with the Regulation could be material should our operations grow to emit more than 100,000 tonnes CO2e of annually. On May 20, 2010, the Saskatchewan Legislature passed The Management and Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Act but has yet to proclaim it a law. The Act sets a policy and regulatory framework for reducing GHG emissions in Saskatchewan and sets a provincial target of a 20% reduction in GHG emissions from 2006 levels by 2020. The specific GHG emission reduction requirements, and the industries required to meet those reductions, as well as details on the methods by which reductions may be achieved, are to be set by further regulations. It is expected that facilities which emit 50,000 tonnes of CO2e per year will be required to reduce GHG emissions by 2% per year over a baseline emission level from 2010 to 2019. New facilities constructed after 2006 that have emissions in excess of 50,000 tonnes of CO2e annually will also be required to achieve emission reduction targets. Future legislated GHG and industrial air pollutant emission reduction requirements and emission intensity requirements, or GHG and industrial air pollutant emission reduction or intensity requirements in future regulatory approvals, may require the restriction or reduction of GHG and industrial air pollutant emissions or emissions intensity from our future operations and facilities, payments to technology funds or purchase of emission reductions or offset credits. The reductions may not be technically or economically feasible for our operations and the failure to meet such emission reduction or emission intensity reduction requirements or other compliance mechanisms may materially adversely affect our business and result in fines, penalties and the suspension of operations. As well, equipment from suppliers which can meet future emission standards may not be available on an economic basis and other compliance methods of reducing emissions or emission intensity to levels required in the future may significantly increase our operating costs or reduce output. Emission reductions or offset credits may not be available for acquisition or may not be available on an economic basis. There is also the risk that provincial or federal governments, or both, could pass legislation which would tax such emissions. American climate change legislation could negatively affect markets for crude and synthetic crude oil Environmental legislation regulating carbon fuel standards in jurisdictions that import crude and synthetic crude oil in the United States could result in increased costs and/or reduced revenue. For example, both California and the United States federal governments have passed legislation which, in some circumstances, considers the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of purchased fuel and which may negatively affect our business, or require the purchase of emissions credits, which may not be economically feasible. Proposed Export Restrictions The Government of Canada previously announced that it will review and may restrict exports from Canada of bitumen and bitumen blend products to countries with less stringent GHG emissions limits than those which apply in Canada. Any export restrictions imposed with respect to bitumen or bitumen blend products may restrict the markets in which the Company may sell its bitumen and bitumen blend products, which may result in the Company receiving a lower price for its production, if and when applicable. Royalty Regime Any development of our resource assets will be directly affected by the royalty regime applicable. The economic benefit of future capital expenditures for the project is, in many cases, dependent on a satisfactory fiscal regime (royalties and taxes). The Government of Saskatchewan receives royalties on production of oil, gas and other minerals from lands in which it owns the relevant mineral rights. The Government of Saskatchewan owns the relevant mineral rights on the OQI Saskatchewan lands. The current royalty regime relating to bitumen production in Saskatchewan provides for a royalty of 1% of gross bitumen revenue and is payable until the project has recovered specified allowed costs. Once such allowed costs are recovered, a net royalty of 20% of operating income is payable. The Government of Alberta receives royalties on production of natural resources from lands in which it owns the mineral rights. On October 25, 2007, the Government of Alberta announced a new royalty regime. The new regime introduced new royalties for conventional oil, natural gas and bitumen that became effective January 1, 2009 and are linked to commodity prices and production levels and apply to both new and existing oil sands projects and conventional oil and gas activities. Under the new regime, the Government of Alberta increased its royalty share from oil sands production by introducing price-sensitive formulas which are applied both before and after specified allowed costs have been recovered. The gross royalty starts at one percent of gross bitumen revenue and increased, for every dollar that world oil price, as reflected by the West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) crude oil price, is above CDN$120 per barrel or higher. The net royalty on oil sands starts at 25 percent of net bitumen revenue and increases for every dollar the WTI crude oil price is above CDN$55 per barrel to 40 percent when the WTI crude oil price is CDN$120 per barrel or higher. Prior to the payout of specified allowed costs, including certain exploration and development costs, operating costs and a return allowance, the gross royalty is payable. Once such allowed costs have been recovered, a royalty of the greater of: (a) the gross royalty and (b) the net royalty is payable. The Government of Alberta has announced that it intends to review and, if necessary, revise current rules and enforcement procedures with a view to clearly defining what expenditures will qualify as specified allowed costs. There can be no assurance that the Governments of Alberta or Saskatchewan or the Government of Canada will not adopt a new fiscal regime or otherwise modify the existing fiscal regime (royalties and taxes) governing oil sands producers in a manner that could materially affect the financial prospects and results of operations of oil sands developers and producers in Alberta and Saskatchewan. Title Risks Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada, and both First Nations and Metis peoples have commenced and could in the future commence actions claiming, among other things, aboriginal title to our Alberta and Saskatchewan lands and other lands located in the vicinity of those lands. First Nations and Metis peoples have also stated that governments have not complied with their constitutionally mandated duty to consult with and accommodate First Nations and Metis in relation to decisions that enabled us to acquire and that are required to enable us to develop our Saskatchewan and Alberta lands, and have commenced and could in the future commence actions asserting such claims. Certain of these claims, if successful, could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, including impacting our ability to explore and develop by impacting our ability to obtain, retain or exercise rights under permits, leases, licenses and other approvals, and the terms of such approvals. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK We have numerous outstanding options, warrants and commitments to issue shares, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock As of June 30, 2011, we have reserved 21,765,744 shares of our common stock for issuance upon exercise of outstanding options under plans at prices as low as $0.53 per share. The Company has also reserved 1,388,567 shares of common stock to be issued on settlement of debt of a former subsidiary. Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement with OQI Sask dated August 14, 2006, the Company is required to issue up to 65,887,603 shares of its common stock for all of the OQI Sask Exchangeable Shares (including warrants and options to acquire OQI Sask Exchangeable Shares) issued upon the closing (the “Reorganization”). As of June 30, 2011, 46,346,867 OQI Sask Exchangeable Shares have already been exchanged for shares of our common stock and up to an additional 19,540,736 OQI Sask Exchangeable Shares may be exchanged for common stock. Any sale into the public market of our common stock purchased privately at prices below the current market price could be expected to have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline Our stock price may decline due to future sales of our shares or the perception that such sales may occur. The Board of Directors of the Company has discretion to determine the issue price and the terms of issue of shares of our common stock. Such future issuances may be dilutive to investors. Holders of shares of common stock have no pre-emptive rights under our articles of incorporation to participate in any future offerings of securities. 14 If we issue additional shares of common stock in private financings under an exemption from the registration requirements, then those shares will constitute “restricted shares” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “1933 Act”). The restricted shares may only be sold if they are registered under the 1933 Act, or sold under Rule 144, or another exemption from registration under the 1933 Act. Some of our outstanding restricted shares of common stock are either eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144 or have been registered under the 1933 Act for resale by the holders. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing, or nature of future sales of outstanding common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may cause the stock’s market price to decline. Dividend Policy The Company did not declare or pay cash or other dividends on its common stock during the past three fiscal years. Payment of dividends by the Company will depend upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company may deem relevant. Our stock price can be extremely volatile The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to announcements of our business developments or those of our competitors, world commodity prices, periodic updates on our resource assessments, quarterly variations in operating results, and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Issuance of Preferred Stock and Our Anti-Takeover Provisions Could Delay or Prevent a Change in Control and May Adversely Affect our Common Stock We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock which may be issued in series from time to time with such designations, rights, preferences and limitations as our Board of Directors may determine by resolution. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to and may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Issuance of a new series of preferred stock, or providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring our outstanding shares of common stock. On October 30, 2006, the Company’s shareholders approved staggered terms for the Board of Directors, which could make removal of the Board of Directors more difficult for a third party. The Class A directors will serve until the annual meeting in 2012, the Class B directors until the annual meeting in 2011, and the Class C directors until the annual meeting in 2010, or each until their successors are duly elected or appointed or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Each term for directors is three years. In addition to a staggered board, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholders rights plan in March 2006 and reserved 250,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. This stockholders rights plan could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an acquisition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 