Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in ENR Stock involves risks. Energizer may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports it files with the SEC in the future. General economic conditions can significantly impact Energizer’s financial results. In general, Energizer’s financial results can be significantly affected by negative economic conditions, inflationary or deflationary pressures, high labor or material and commodity costs, and unforeseen changes in consumer demand or buying patterns. These general risks are, of course, currently heightened as economic conditions globally have deteriorated significantly and may remain at a recessionary level for the foreseeable future. These economic conditions could have potentially significant impacts on employment levels, consumer demand, and credit availability in many countries where Energizer operates, with a direct impact on our sales and profitability, as well as our ability to generate sufficient internal cash flows or access credit at reasonable rates in order to meet future operating expenses and liquidity requirements, fund capital expenditures or service debt as it becomes due. Tighter credit markets could also result in supplier or customer disruptions. Increasing retailer customer concentration on a global scale as a response to economic conditions could result in reduced sales outlets for our products, greater negotiating pressures on Energizer, and global pricing requirements across markets. Although we believe our current sources of credit are generally financially sound and that our access to credit will not be significantly limited, debt capital markets have tightened, banks have exerted more leverage in obtaining more favorable terms, and the solvency of some banks and financial institutions has been challenged by sub-prime lending difficulties as well as other economic and market developments. 8 Energizer’s foreign operations are very significant to it, and results can be impacted by a number of risks specific to international operations, including currency fluctuations. Energizer’s businesses are currently conducted on a worldwide basis, with about half of its sales arising out of foreign operations, and a significant portion of its production capacity located overseas. Consequently, Energizer is subject to a number of significant risks associated with its subsidiaries doing business in foreign countries. As a significant portion of our sales are denominated in local currencies, but reported in U.S. dollars, the strengthening of the dollar relative to such currencies can negatively impact our reported sales and operating profits. Additionally, while sales are made in local currency, a high percentage of product costs for our foreign operations are denominated in U.S. dollars. The impact of changes in currency rates has been especially heightened by current global economic conditions and significant devaluations of local currencies in comparison to the U.S. dollar, extreme volatility in exchange rates, and a material negative impact on our results. Other risks and considerations include: the effect of foreign income and withholding taxes and the U.S. tax implications of foreign source income and losses, and other restrictions on the flow of capital between countries; social legislation in certain countries, which can significantly impact the expenses associated with business rationalizations; the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls; adverse changes in local investment or exchange control regulations; hyperinflationary conditions in developing economies; and political instability, government nationalization of business or industries, government corruption, and civil unrest. Continuing increases in raw material costs or disruptions in supply of raw materials could erode Energizer’s profit margins, and negatively impact manufacturing output and operating results. Continuing increases in the prices of raw materials could significantly affect our profit margins and operating results. In the past, substantial increases in a number of materials have been partially offset by price increases. However, there is no certainty that future increases will be offset, especially given the competitive environment. Other materials, particularly electrolytic manganese dioxide, steel, caustic potash and resin, have increased in price recently, and our ability to maintain price levels and cut costs to offset these increases is not assured. In addition, the supply of certain raw materials can be significantly disrupted by labor activity, political conflict, and disruptions to sourcing or transportation activities, which could impact our manufacturing output. Energizer has a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which, if they became impaired would result in a reduction in net income. Current accounting standards require that intangible assets with indefinite lives be periodically evaluated for impairment. Declines in our profitability and/or estimated cash flow streams related to specific intangible assets may impact the fair value of these intangible assets and other long-lived assets, which could result in an impairment charge. These charges may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. In order to complete the acquisition of Playtex and refinance existing Playtex indebtedness, Energizer took on substantial debt, which could impair its financial condition. Energizer’s current debt level remains at almost $3 billion due primarily to the financing of the Playtex acquisition in fiscal year 2008. Unforeseen fluctuations in operating cash flows or an inability to maintain compliance with debt covenants, including our debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) ratio, could result in higher interest costs, or potentially a breach of the debt covenants and consequent default on existing debt facilities. Energizer’s ability to meet future operating expenses and 9 liquidity requirements, fund capital expenditures or service debt as it becomes due could also be impacted. The degree of Energizer’s indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: Energizer’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, general corporate purposes or other purposes could be impaired; Energizer may not be able to refinance its debt in whole or in part, or may have to do so at costs that are significantly greater than its current debt structure. A significant portion of Energizer’s cash from operations could be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on its debt, which could reduce the funds available for operations; The level of our debt could leave Energizer vulnerable in a period of significant economic downturn; and; Energizer may not be financially able to withstand significant and sustained competitive pressures. Energizer operates in highly competitive industries. The industries in which Energizer operates, including battery, wet-shave, skin care, feminine care and infant care, are highly competitive, both in the United States and on a global basis, as a limited number of large manufacturers compete for consumer acceptance and limited retail shelf space. As product placement, facings and shelf-space are at the sole discretion of our retailer customers, and often impacted by competitive activity, the visibility and availability of our full portfolio of products can be limited. Competitors may also be able to obtain exclusive distribution at particular retailers, or favorable in-store placement, resulting in a negative impact on our sales. Competition is based upon brand perceptions, product performance and innovation, customer service and price. Energizer’s ability to compete effectively may be affected by a number of factors: Energizer’s primary competitor in batteries, wet shave and feminine care products, The Procter & Gamble Company, has substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and greater market share, than Energizer does, as well as significant scale and negotiating leverage with retailers; Energizer’s competitors, in the industries in which it competes, may have lower production, sales and distribution costs, and higher profit margins, than Energizer, which may enable them to compete more aggressively in offering retail discounts and other promotional incentives; and Loss of key retail customers to competitors may erode Energizer’s market share. The battery, wet shave, skin care, feminine care and infant care industries have been notable for the pace of innovations in product life, product design and applied technology. Energizer and its competitors have made, and continue to make, investments in research and development with the goal of further innovation. If competitors introduce new or enhanced products that significantly outperform Energizer’s, or if they develop or apply manufacturing technology which permits them to manufacture at a significantly lower cost relative to Energizer’s, Energizer may be unable to compete successfully in the market segments affected by these changes. Category growth and performance of the product categories in which we compete may be impacted by economic conditions, changes in technology, and device trends, which could directly impair Energizer’s operating results and growth prospects. In light of current recessionary conditions, consumers may significantly reduce primary battery purchases, or shift purchases to lower cost private label or carbon zinc batteries, or to lower margin larger package sizes. Similarly, consumers may shift purchases from our branded Personal Care products to private label goods. Continuing improvements in size and shape, recharge time, and duration of discharge for rechargeable batteries have increased the utilization of such batteries in portable electronic devices, which may negatively impact consumption of our products in the future. Development and commercialization 10 of new battery or personal care technologies not available to Energizer could also negatively impact our results and prospects. The anticipated benefits of Energizer’s acquisition of Playtex could be impacted by a number of risks specific to the Playtex businesses. Many of the products of Playtex are subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the Food and Drug Administration continues to result in increases in the amounts of required testing and documentation. The regulatory agencies with purview over the operations of Playtex businesses have administrative powers that may result in such actions as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases it may be deemed advisable for Energizer to initiate product recalls. Potential health risks caused by certain Playtex products could also result in significant product liability claims or consumer complaints. These potential regulatory actions and claims could materially restrict or impede the operations of Playtex and adversely affect its operating results. Other risks and considerations include: the negative impact of unfavorable weather conditions, given that, in accordance with industry practice Playtex customers may return unsold sun care products at the end of the season under certain circumstances, and such product returns may be higher than average in years when the weather is unseasonably cool or wet; and the possibility that third party manufacturers, which produce a significant portion of certain Playtex products, could discontinue production with little or no advance notice, or experience problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery, resulting in manufacturing delays or disruptions, regulatory sanctions, product liability claims or consumer complaints; Because Energizer assumed all liabilities of the Playtex businesses, unknown, unforeseen, or larger than estimated liabilities associated with the operation of those businesses prior to the acquisition could become significant to Energizer. In addition, the descriptions of risk factors impacting Energizer appearing under “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION – Household Products Overview, and - Personal Care Overview on pages 10 and 11, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Liquidity and Capital Resources” on pages 14 through 16, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Inflation” on page 17, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Environmental Matters” on page 17, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions” on pages 16 and 17, “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Critical Accounting Policies” on pages 18 and 19, and “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION - Forward-Looking Information” on pages 19 and 20, of the Energizer Holdings, Inc. 2008 Annual Report, are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 11 