D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have entered into a distribution agreement with ECI Telecom Ltd. (“ECI”) under which we appointed ECI as our exclusive distributor in significant portions of the Former Soviet Union, which are important markets for us. Accordingly, we are presently dependent upon ECI for the achievement of sales in those markets. In June 2005, we entered into a distribution agreement with ECI under which we appointed ECI as our exclusive distributor in the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, territories from which we expect, in the aggregate, to derive a significant portion of our revenues. In 2007, we derived a significant portion of our revenues from sales achieved through ECI in these territories. The agreement is subject to termination by either party upon three months’ notice. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon a material breach by the other party or in the event of liquidation or similar consequences of the other party. If ECI were to terminate this agreement or if it does not succeed in obtaining orders for our products and services, for whatever reason, our business and results of operations may be seriously harmed. For example, our business deteriorated in the first quarter of 2007, as we experienced a sharp decline in revenues and did not meet our internal plans. This revenue shortfall was due in part to slower than anticipated orders intake, mainly from countries within the Former Soviet Union carried out through ECI, our exclusive reseller in said region. We depend on several relatively large customers and the loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant decrease in revenue from any of these customers, could have a disproportionate impact on our revenue and income. A substantial portion of our revenue has come from relatively large purchases by a small number of customers. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 51.54% of our revenues in 2007, with sales to three customers in the Americas accounting for 19.78% of our revenues, none of which accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2007. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 59.24% of our revenues in 2006, with sales to three customers in Eastern Europe accounting for 28.9% of our revenues, one of which accounted for 16.0% of our revenues. We expect to continue to depend on sales to a small number of customers. However, we do not have long-term commitments from any of our top customers to purchase any specific quantities of products. We expect that our largest customers will vary from period to period. If we lose one or more large customers and fail to add new customers, our results of operations could be seriously harmed. For example, our business deteriorated in the first quarter of 2007, as we experienced a sharp decline in revenues and did not meet our internal plans. This revenue shortfall was due in part to slower than anticipated orders intake, mainly from countries within the Former Soviet Union, that were carried out through our exclusive reseller in said region, and in part to a delay in a large order from a long-standing European customer. We maintain significant cooperation with distribution channels for the sale of our products and services. If our relationship with these distribution channels is for any reason impaired, our business and results of operations may suffer. We have agreements in place with distributors and system integrators to market and sell our products and services in addition to our direct sales force. We derive about one half of our revenues from these distribution and system integrators channels. When a sale is directed through a distribution channel and not directly by us, if the sales efforts of these channels are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. In addition, there can be no assurance that our channel partners will not develop or market products or services in competition with us in the future. Furthermore, our financial results may be affected if our contracts with distribution channels were terminated, if our relationship with channel partners was to deteriorate or if the financial condition of our channel partners was to weaken. Increased expense levels will harm our business if our revenues do not grow. A significant portion of our expenses are comprised of fixed costs such as payrolls, rent of facilities and vehicles expense, which we cannot decrease in the short term even if our revenues were to decline. Accordingly, if our revenues do not grow, it will be difficult for us to decrease costs at a rate that is commensurate with the decrease in revenues. This will result in an increase in net loss or decrease in net income in the short term. For example, our revenues for 2007 decreased compared to 2006 from $28.8 million for 2006 to $20.9 million for 2007. This decline was mainly attributed to a slower than anticipated order intake, mostly from countries within the Former Soviet Union, and a long-standing European customer as further described below under “Item 5A–Operating Results–Overview.” However, our level of fixed expenses remained substantially the same, resulting in increase of our operating loss for 2007 to $8.5 million, compared with a operating loss of $3.5 million in 2006. As we maintain the same level of fixed expenses, if our revenues will not grow or will further decline our business will be harmed. Because most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars but a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be seriously harmed by currency fluctuations and inflation. Although we have operations throughout the world, the majority of our revenue and approximately 50% of our operating costs in 2007 were denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, a significant portion of our expenses is in NIS. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the NIS and the U.S. dollar may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, during 2007, the NIS appreciated by nine percent against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel, and this trend has continued in 2008. We may also be exposed to this risk to the extent that the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of potential devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In either event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations could also be adversely affected if we are unable to hedge against currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. Moreover, as currently our revenues are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause customers to default on payment. An increasing portion of our revenues is now denominated in Euros, and in the future additional revenues may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. 6 The market for our products is highly competitive. Furthermore, because some of our competitors have much greater resources than we have or may have a lower cost structure than we have, it may be difficult for us to achieve and maintain profitability. We may also face competition from our customers. Competition in our industry is intense, and we expect it to continue. To compete effectively, we have, at times, been required to grant substantial discounts on our products, especially as some of our competitors utilize aggressive pricing strategies. Lower prices and the loss of sales to our competitors would reduce our ability to generate revenue, which would harm our business. Some of the companies that compete with us have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are among the largest and most capitalized software and hardware companies in the world. Also, some of our competitors have located their research and development facilities in countries where labor costs for engineers and other experienced personnel are far lower than in Israel, where our research and development facilities are located. This has increased the pressure to reduce pricing on our products. In some situations, we may not be able to compete successfully because of these factors, and this may adversely affect our ability to achieve new sales. We may also face competition from our customers. Some of our customers are developing their own solutions internally or through strategic alliances. As a result, solutions developed by our customers may replace and/or compete with products that we currently sell to them or that we may seek to sell to them in the future. We have recently experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations, which resulted, and may continue to result in the future, in our failing to meet expectations about these results and could cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. In recent years we have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, and we may likewise experience significant fluctuations in our annual results of operations. Factors which have contributed and may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations include amongst others: — changes in customer capital spending budgets and allocations throughout the year; — trends in customer purchasing; — the length of our sales process; — the size and timing of orders; — our relationships with, and sales through, our channel partners; — competitive market conditions, including the pricing actions of our customers; — timing and success of new products and new technologies introduced by us or our competitors; — our ability to integrate the technology and operations of acquired businesses with our own business; — regional or global economic and political conditions; — changes in our operating expenses and extraordinary expenses; — impairment of goodwill and intangibles; — the percentage of sales for which we pay sales commissions; and — fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Unfavorable changes in the factors listed above, many of which are outside of our control, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, our operating results for 2007 were below our internal plans and the expectations of public market analysts and investors and our business deteriorated, as we experienced a decline in revenues and increased net loss. The lower than expected results of operations were mainly due to a slower than anticipated order intake in the first quarters of 207, mostly from countries within the Former Soviet Union, and a long-standing European customer. These orders were booked at the end of the second quarter, and not at the beginning of the first quarter as anticipated due to slower than anticipated purchasing cycle of these customers. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may again, be below our expectations, or the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which may cause our share price to drop. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We could be subject to warranty claims, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. We typically provide one-year warranty programs with respect to our products. Our warranty generally provides that we will repair or replace products with defects in materials or workmanship or that fail to meet agreed-upon specifications. Any significant product returns or warranty claims could adversely affect our results of operations. We offer sophisticated products that may contain software with undetected errors. In addition, new products may experience failures when first introduced, and both current and future products may experience failures as new versions are released. We rely to a large extent on our reputation among industry leaders in conducting our sales efforts. Such product returns or warranty claims and the associated negative publicity, could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and hurt our business. 7 Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. In particular, we may not be effective in integrating our acquisitions or succeed in making additional acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue mergers and acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. For example, in April 2008 we purchased substantially all the assets of Compwise Ltd., an Israeli based company and a provider of business analytic solutions for telecommunication operators. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we acquired two sister companies engaged in the development and marketing of Revenue Assurance solutions. Also, during 2006, we carried out a due-diligence process for a potential acquisition opportunity. Eventually, we decided not to complete the acquisition. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business, technology or product may absorb significant management attention and involves large expenditure of funds that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and/or of investing in new technologies may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation, the failure of the acquired business to further our strategies, the inability to successfully integrate or commercialize acquired technologies or otherwise realize anticipated synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment will be realized. Future acquisitions or investments contemplated and/or consummated could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities as part of the consideration for such acquisitions or investments, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have limited experience with respect to operating acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or effective in integrating such acquisitions into our existing business. If the operation of the business of any future acquisitions disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Consolidation of competitors may adversely affect our sales and operating results. In recent years, our industry has experienced consolidation of solution providers, including consolidation of some of our direct competitors. This may result in the creation of one or more competitors possessing more significant market share than we possess. Consolidated competitors may be able to achieve significant advantages over us in terms of economies of scale, and therefore, we may be able to compete against us more effectively. Consolidation can also adversely affect our business and operating results for other reasons, such as operators preferring to transact with consolidated solution providers for various reasons, such as their larger customers base and references sites, and larger sales, marketing and support organizations. Developments affecting telecommunication service providers, such as mergers, can adversely affect us. Developments in the telecommunications industry, such as the impact of general global economic conditions, continued industry consolidation, the formation of alliances among network operators and service providers, and changes in the regulatory environment have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our existing or potential customers. These conditions have reduced the high growth rates that the telecommunications industry had previously experienced, and have caused the market value, financial results and prospects, and capital spending levels of many telecommunications companies to decline or degrade. In recent years, the telecommunications industry has experienced significant financial pressures that have caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital-intensive projects and have led to numerous restructurings and bankruptcies. Recent telecommunications company mergers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as existing or potential customers may be purchased or two customers may combine operations in a manner that results in a decline in repeat sales by us, reduces the number of licenses we can sell to the combined entity or cause us to have to repeat significant pre-sale efforts in respect of one or more of the merger parties. Many of our customers require a lengthy, detailed and comprehensive evaluation process before they order our products. Our sales process has been subject to delays that have significantly decreased our revenues and which could result in the eventual cancellations of some sale opportunities. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of products and related services for telecommunications service providers. The purchase of our products represents a relatively significant capital expenditure for our customers. As a result, our products generally undergo a lengthy evaluation and purchase process before we can sell them. In recent years, our customers have been conducting a more stringent and detailed evaluation of our products, and decisions are subject to additional levels of internal review. As a result, the evaluation process has significantly lengthened. This evaluation process generally takes between six and 18 months. The following factors, among others, affect the length of the approval process: — the time involved for our customers to determine and announce their specifications; — the time required for our customers to process approvals for purchasing decisions; — the complexity of the products involved; — the technological priorities and budgets of our customers; and — the need for our customers to obtain or comply with any required regulatory approvals. If customers continue to subject our products to lengthy evaluation processes, continue to delay project approval, delays lengthen further, or if such continued delays result in the eventual cancellation of any sale opportunities, it could harm our business and results of operations. 8 Volatility experienced by telecommunications service providers may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Current weakness in the U.S. and global markets may result in a decline of capital investment by telecommunications service providers, impact on our sales and may affect the pricing of our products. The telecommunications service provider market to which we sell historically has been volatile. From time to time this industry has experienced significant downturns. For instance, beginning in late 2000 and continuing into 2003, the deterioration of the global economy in general and economic uncertainty in the telecommunications market in particular resulted in a decline of capital investment by telecommunications service providers. This decline in capital expenditures significantly reduced our sales and also resulted in pressure on the prices we charge for our products. Similarly, adverse market conditions in the future could have a negative impact on our business by reducing the number and the value of new contracts we are able to sign. Current weaknesses in the U.S. and global markets is affecting the global economy and causing uncertainty in the telecommunications market. This might result in a decline in capital investment by telecommunications service providers. Any such decline in capital expenditures may harm our revenues and results of operation. We depend upon our newly established Bulgarian subsidiary for the performance of certain of our European professional services and operations. Failure to manage and expand our Bulgarian activities may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have outsourced a portion of our professional services and operations in Europe to a subcontractor in Bulgaria. On April 1, 2008 our contract with this subcontractor was terminated and the employees of this subcontractor are now directly employed by ECtel Bulgaria EOOD, our newly established subsidiary. We intend to strengthen our position in Eastern Europe through the operation of our Bulgarian subsidiary. Accordingly, our future success will depend in part on our ability to manage and expand our Bulgarian subsidiary’s activities . In addition, as Bulgaria joined the European Market on January 1, 2007, it is likely that the cost of our Bulgarian operations may increase over time, as was the case with companies in other countries joining the European Market. We depend on single suppliers for some of our product components, including key product components in our legacy probing devices, and we cannot control the manufacturing and delivery of these components. Our business will be interrupted if these suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide these components. We utilize single suppliers for some of our product components, including critical components needed for some of our products. We cannot control the delivery schedule for these components. In the event that any of these suppliers are unable to meet our requirements, or fail to do so in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. Any disruption, or any other interruption of a supplier’s ability to provide components to us, could result in delays in making product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as suppliers discontinue their products, or modify them in manners incompatible with our current use, or use manufacturing processes and tools that cannot be easily migrated to other vendors, we could have significant delays in product availability, which would have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our inventory and alternative sources of supply would be sufficient to avoid a material interruption or delay in production and in availability of spare parts. ECI, our supplier of critical hardware components for our legacy probing devices and the owner of certain intellectual property rights related thereto, stopped manufacturing some of these hardware components in August 2006 and recently ceased all manufacturing activities. We contracted with an alternative supplier for the performance of manufacturing services instead of ECI in relation to these components. This contract expires in September 2008 and we are currently negotiating an extension to the contract with such alternative supplier. If we do not reach agreement to extend or renew our contract or, even if we do extend or renew that contract but the alternative supplier becomes unable or unwilling to provide these components at some point in the future, we will have to identify and engage with a new manufacturer and may experience substantial delays in the manufacturing of certain of our products. In both cases our business may suffer. In addition, we may be required, in the future, to pay the alternative supplier higher prices for these components than the prices which are currently charged. Furthermore, while ECI currently allows us to sublicense its technology required for production of these components to our alternative supplier, in order to engage any new alternative manufacturer, we would need the consent of ECI to sublicense that technology to the new alternative supplier. In addition, in connection with our sale to Verint of our government surveillance business, we agreed to supply some of these components for our legacy probing devices to Verint for a period of seven years. Any problems with our supplier that cause us to breach our obligations to Verint, which problems may not be under our control, could expose us to claims by Verint. Such claims could harm our financial condition. Implementation of new technologies by telecom carriers may result in a decline in demand for our products. Technologies, such as Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”), are facilitating the use of cheaper communications media and new and reduced pricing schemes which are not entirely based on usage level and records, such as flat rates, by some telecom operators. Such operators may be less inclined to invest in high-end solutions like ours, which by their nature monitor the usage records. Moreover, since these technologies enable service providers to offer relatively low calling rates to subscribers, this may reduce the incentive to commit telecom fraud. This, in turn, would reduce the need among service providers to constantly monitor revenue related processes and thereby reduce the demand for anti-fraud solution like ours. This trend may harm our revenues and results of operation. 9 Because the telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological and other changes, our success depends on our ability to continually develop technologically advanced products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. The telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances and frequent product introductions and enhancements. We believe that our future success will largely depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and to successfully develop and market products on a cost-effective and timely basis. The technologies applicable to our products include applications capable of analyzing and processing data based on accepted telephony standards and protocols. If other technological standards and protocols gain broad market acceptance, we will be required to redesign our existing products or design new products that are able to view and analyze networks based on these new standards and protocols. For example, the types of fraudulent schemes to which service providers are subject change with the emergence of new technologies, networks and other developments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing new applications or systems that will respond to technological change. The payment cycle for our receivables may reduce the cash we have available to operate and expand our business. As is typical in the telecommunications industry, our contracts may provide for payments under a variety of payment schedules. For example, we may receive a deposit prior to shipment, a partial payment upon delivery and final payment after 180 or 360 days from delivery. Also, we may collect payments due to specific project milestones, upon specific customization and development progress. Such payment cycles may adversely affect the cash resources available to operate and expand our business. We do business with companies located in countries around the world, which subjects us to additional risks. If these risks materialize, our business will be materially adversely affected. Because of the global nature of our business, we are exposed to the risk of economic or political instability in countries where our customers are located, particularly in developing countries such as countries in Africa and in Central and South America. In addition, there are often longer sales and payment cycles in developing countries, as well as greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. We face additional risks from our international operations including: — difficulties of obtaining licenses, the imposition of tariffs and the effects of other trade barriers; — difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; — potentially adverse tax consequences; — laws and business practices favoring local competitors; — costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries; — compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; — political instability; — variance and unexpected changes in local laws and regulations; and — imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon our protection of our proprietary technology, including both software and hardware components of our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We have several registered patents and trademarks as well as patent and trademark applications covering some of our technology and are in the process of preparing and filing additional patent and trademark applications. We cannot assure you that any of these applications will be granted. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect us from the claims of others. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Moreover, competitors and potential competitors may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our product line or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology for these or any other reasons, our business may suffer. Because our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business will suffer if we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. Many participants in the telecommunications industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to pursue litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. All of our products rely on technology that could be the subject of existing patents or patent applications of third parties. We have agreed to indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future with respect to our current or future products. These claims may require us to enter into license arrangements or result in protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. Any necessary licenses may not be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop selling our products in some or all countries, and our business would be seriously harmed. 10 Our products contain certain hardware components. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels of these components to meet anticipated demand. If we cannot predict orders accurately, our inventory may become obsolete and our financial performance may be harmed. Our solutions consist of both software and hardware components. The timing and volume of our customers’ orders are generally difficult to forecast for each quarter, as a substantial majority of our sales of hardware components are booked and shipped in the same quarter pursuant to purchase orders. We purchase the hardware components of our solutions from a small number of manufacturers, some of which may not always timely fill our orders. We must therefore maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products increases the risk of inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs. A shift in demand could also result in inventory write-offs, which could harm our financial performance. We are subject to European regulations that will require us to use components consisting of environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to European telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, telecom equipment suppliers are required to eliminate the lead solders from their products by 2010. Compliance with European Community directives may require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of certain of our hardware products or find other complying alternatives. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for third-party components that comply with this directive. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could harm our ability to sell our products within the European Community and in any other countries that may adopt this directive, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals or cannot hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our business and future growth and success largely depend on the managerial and technical skills of members of our management. If one or more of the members of the senior management team are unable or unwilling to continue in our employ, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, motivate, and retain other highly-qualified personnel. There is competition in Israel for the services of highly-qualified technical and engineering personnel. There is also considerable competition for the services of experienced sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able either to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel if and when needed. Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a substantial risk that we are a passive foreign investment company, commonly referred to as PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. For U.S. Federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset, which produces passive income. As a result of our substantial cash position and the decline in the value of our stock, there is a substantial risk that we will be classified as a PFIC under a literal application of the asset test described above, which looks solely to the market value. If we are to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. residents who are holding our ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States residents should carefully read “Item 10E–Taxation–Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. We are dependent upon Verint to perform our remaining obligations under certain contracts with government customers on which we remain the named party. In connection with the sale to Verint of our government surveillance business, we remain the named party on a number of contracts which required additional performance, including for warranty and other remaining services. With respect to these contracts, the customers consented to the performance by Verint of all the remaining obligations of ECtel under the contracts. The customers also agreed to communicate directly with Verint in connection with the performance of the contracts by Verint. However, we still may be liable to the customer in the event that Verint does not perform as required under these agreements, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer if these customers pursue claims against us. In the event that we suffer damages as a result of Verint’s non-performance, we may pursue our indemnification rights against Verint. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal offices and manufacturing facilities and many of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, since September 2000. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups and significant hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, as well as extensive hostilities in the summer of 2006 with Hezbollah along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. 11 We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will have no impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. In addition, our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We are entitled to tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as approved enterprises. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions stipulated in applicable law and in our specific approvals, including making specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. From time to time, we submit requests for expansion of our approved enterprise programs or for new programs to be designated as approved enterprises. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of difficult economic conditions in Israel. In addition, in March 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for investments that qualify for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. In addition, if we fail for any reason to meet the conditions of an approved investment program, our future tax benefits under the Israeli law for capital investments will be materially reduced. In light of our carry forward losses, we are currently not in a taxable position. We received an approval in principle from the Investment Center with respect to the sale of our government surveillance business to Verint in March 2004. If the Investment Center declines, for any reason, to grant us the final approval, our tax benefits under Israeli law will be materially reduced, see “Item 10E–Taxation–Israeli Taxation.” The termination or reduction of these tax benefits could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Because we received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions, and certain of our large shareholders are required to undertake to observe such restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, or the Office of the Chief Scientist (OCS), for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. According to Israeli law, any products developed with grants from the OCS are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay the OCS up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay such grants at a quicker rate. Furthermore, the transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than 10% of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable would be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers or directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, since we are incorporated and headquartered in Israel and upon our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. 12 There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in NIS, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in NIS at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in NIS ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, and therefore depress the price of our stock. The Israeli Companies Law – 1999 includes restrictions on mergers, such as special voting requirements, the ability of creditors to seek court intervention to delay or prevent a merger and mandatory waiting periods. In addition, under certain circumstances, the Companies Law requires that acquisitions be performed via tender offer. For more information, see “Item 10B–Memorandum and Articles of Association–Mergers and Acquisitions Under Israeli Law.” Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Companies such as ours, which operate in technology industries, are particularly vulnerable to class action litigation as a result of the volatility of their stock prices. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources On October 19, 2004, a class action complaint (the “Class Action Complaint”), Leumi Gemel Ltd. v. ECtel Ltd., et al., Case No. 8:04-CV-03380-RWT, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Named as defendants are ECtel Ltd., ECI Telecom Ltd., and certain of ECtel’s directors and officers. The Class Action Complaint alleges that the defendants violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, by making false and misleading statements in the Company’s SEC filings and press releases during a period beginning April 24, 2001, and lasting through April 2, 2003. The claims are purportedly brought on behalf of all persons who purchased our stock during that period. The plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages against the defendants, as well as attorneys’ fees and costs. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the class action complaint. At a hearing on this motion held on July 17, 2006, the court granted our motion to dismiss the class action complaint. Following the dismissal, the plaintiff filed a motion to further amend the class action complaint. We responded by requesting that the court deny the motion to amend. On March 6, 2007, the court denied the plaintiff’s motion to further amend the class action. Plaintiff filed an appeal of the district court’s orders with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. After briefing in the Fourth Circuit but before oral argument or any decision thereon, the parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve the litigation. The parties have executed a stipulation of settlement documenting their agreement. The stipulation of settlement must be approved by the district court which has not yet occurred. Our stock price has decreased significantly during 2007 and could continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price has decreased significantly since the first quarter of 2003. Recently, following an announcement that our 2007 first quarter revenues were lower than our internal work plan, our share price decreased significantly. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, have caused and may continue to cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: — shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts and by us; — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; — announcements concerning us, our affiliates, or our competitors; 13 — the introduction of new telecommunications services; — changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; — failure to successfully execute our growth strategy through the acquisition of other businesses; — market conditions in our industry and the global economy in general; and — the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector). In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. 