ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause the Company’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and the Company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s businesses or financial performance. Vectren is a holding company, and its assets consist primarily of investments in its subsidiaries. Dividends on Vectren’s common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and cash flow of its subsidiaries, principally Utility Holdings and Enterprises, and the distribution or other payment of earnings from those entities to Vectren. Should the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements or cash flow of, or legal requirements applicable to, them restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company, its ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited and its stock price could be adversely affected. Vectren’s results of operations, future growth and earnings and dividend goals also will depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. Additionally, certain of the Company’s lending arrangements contain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a total debt to total capitalization ratio, which could limit its ability to pay dividends. Vectren operates in an increasingly competitive industry, which may affect its future earnings. The utility industry has been undergoing dramatic structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressure faced by electric and gas utility companies. Increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of Vectren’s earnings generally and may in the future reduce its earnings from retail electric and gas sales. Currently, several states, including Ohio, have passed legislation that allows customers to choose their electricity supplier in a competitive market. Indiana has not enacted such legislation. Ohio regulation also provides for choice of commodity providers for all gas customers. In 2003, the Company implemented this choice for its gas customers in Ohio. Indiana has not adopted any regulation requiring gas choice except for large-volume customers. Vectren cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. -10- Table of Contents A significant portion of Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are space heating and cooling. Accordingly, its operating results may fluctuate with variability of weather. Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are sensitive to variations in weather conditions. The Company forecasts utility sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Since Vectren does not have a weather-normalization mechanism for its electric operations or its Ohio natural gas operations, significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on its earnings. However, the impact of weather on the gas operations in the Company’s Indiana territories has been significantly mitigated through the implementation on October 15, 2005, of a normal temperature adjustment mechanism. Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are concentrated in the Midwest. The operations of the Company’s regulated utilities are concentrated in central and southern Indiana and west central Ohio and are therefore impacted by changes in the Midwest economy in general and changes in particular industries concentrated in the Midwest. These industries include automotive assembly, parts and accessories, feed, flour and grain processing, metal castings, aluminum products, appliance manufacturing, polycarbonate resin (Lexan®) and plastic products, gypsum products, electrical equipment, metal specialties, glass, steel finishing, pharmaceutical and nutritional products, gasoline and oil products, and coal mining. Risks related to the regulation of Vectren’s businesses, including environmental regulation, could affect the rates the Company charges its customers, its costs and its profitability. Vectren’s businesses are subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In particular, Vectren is subject to regulation by the FERC, the IURC and the PUCO. These authorities regulate many aspects of its transmission and distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety and the rates that the Company can charge customers and the rate of return that Vectren's utilities are authorized to earn. The Company’s ability to obtain rate increases to maintain its current authorized rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that Vectren will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or earn its current authorized rate of return. In addition, Vectren’s operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. These environmental regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances in the environment. Such emissions from electric generating facilities include particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), and mercury, among others. Environmental legislation also requires that facilities, sites and other properties associated with Vectren’s operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. The Company’s current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, claims against the Company under environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs and liabilities. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated by Vectren subject to environmental regulation, its investment in environmentally compliant equipment, and the costs associated with operating that equipment, have increased and are expected to increase in the future. Further, there are proposals to address global climate change that would regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases. Any future legislative or regulatory actions taken to address global climate change could adversely affect Vectren’s business and results of operations by, for example, requiring changes in, and increased costs related to, the Company’s fossil fuel generating plants and coal mining operations. From time to time, Vectren is subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. The Company, as well as its equity investees such as ProLiance, may be subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings from time to time. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Vectren’s business, results of operations or financial condition. -11- Table of Contents Vectren’s electric operations are subject to various risks. The Company’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased purchased power costs. Such operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; and natural disasters. Vectren may experience significantly increased gas costs. Commodity prices for natural gas purchases have increased and become more volatile in recent years. Subject to regulatory approval, Vectren’s utility subsidiaries are allowed recovery of gas costs from their retail customers through commission-approved gas cost adjustment mechanisms. As a result, profit margins on gas sales are not expected to be impacted. Nevertheless, regulators may disallow, and have in the past disallowed, recovery of a portion of gas costs for various reasons, including but limited to, a finding by the regulator that natural gas was not prudently procured, as an example. In addition, it is possible that as a result of this near term change in natural gas commodity prices, Vectren’s subsidiaries may experience increased interest expense due to higher working capital requirements, increased uncollectible accounts expense and unaccounted for gas and some level of price sensitive reduction in volumes sold or delivered. However, the Company believes that the negative earnings impact on the reduction of price sensitive natural gas volumes sold is significantly mitigated by Indiana and Ohio orders received in the fourth quarter of 2006 that authorize lost margin recovery. The impact of MISO participation is uncertain. Since February 2002 and with the IURC’s approval, the Company has been a member of the MISO. The MISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains operational control over Vectren’s electric transmission facilities as well as that of other Midwest utilities. On April 1, 2005, the MISO energy market commenced operation (the Day 2 energy market). As a result of being a market participant, Vectren now bids its owned generation into the Day Ahead and Real Time markets and procure power for its retail customers at Locational Marginal Pricing (LMP) as determined by the MISO market. As a result of MISO’s operational control over much of the Midwestern electric transmission grid, including Vectren’s electric transmission facilities, its continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. Given the nature of MISO’s policies regarding use of transmission facilities, as well as ongoing FERC initiatives and uncertainties around Day 2 energy market operations, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. However, it is believed that MISO’s regional operation of the transmission system will ultimately lead to reliability improvements within the Midwestern transmission system. The potential need to expend capital for improvements to the transmission system, both to Vectren’s facilities as well as to those facilities of adjacent utilities, over the next several years will become more predictable as MISO completes studies related to regional transmission planning and improvements. Such expenditures may be significant. Wholesale power marketing activities may add volatility to earnings. Vectren’s regulated electric utility engages in wholesale power marketing activities that primarily involve asset optimization strategies. These optimization strategies primarily involve the offering of utility-owned or contracted generation into the MISO hourly and real time markets. As part of these strategies, the Company may also execute energy contracts that are integrated with portfolio requirements around power supply and delivery. Projected earnings from wholesale marketing activities may vary based on fluctuating prices for electricity and the amount of electric generating capacity or purchased power available, beyond that needed to meet firm service requirements. -12- Table of Contents If Vectren does not accurately forecast future commodities prices or if its hedging procedures do not operate as planned in certain nonutility businesses, the Company’s net income could be reduced or the Company may experience losses. The operations of ProLiance as well as the Company’s nonutility gas retail supply and coal mining businesses execute forward and option contracts that commit them to purchase and sell natural gas and coal in the future, including forward contracts to purchase commodities to fulfill forecasted sales transactions that may or may not occur. If the value of these contracts changes in a direction or manner that is not anticipated, or if the forecasted sales transactions do not occur, Vectren may experience losses. To lower the financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, these nonutility businesses may execute contracts that hedge the value of commodity price risk. As part of this strategy, Vectren may utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, and/or financial forwards, futures, swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, although almost all natural gas and coal positions are hedged, with either these contracts or with Vectren’s owned coal inventory and known reserves, Vectren does not hedge its entire exposure or its positions to market price volatility. To the extent Vectren’s forecasts of future commodities prices are inaccurate, its hedging procedures do not work as planned, its coal reserves cannot be accessed or it has unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices are likely to cause the Company’s net income to be volatile and may lower its net income. The performance of Vectren’s nonutility businesses are also subject to certain risks. Execution of gas marketing strategies by ProLiance as well as the execution of the Company’s coal mining and energy infrastructure services strategies, and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities in the nonutility business area is subject to a number of risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the effects of weather; failure of installed performance contracting products to operate as planned; storage field and mining property development; increased coal mining industry regulation; potential legislation that may limit CO2 and other greenhouse gases emissions; creditworthiness of customers and joint venture partners; factors associated with physical energy trading activities, including price, basis, credit, liquidity, volatility, capacity, and interest rate risks; changes in federal, state or local legal requirements, such as changes in tax laws or rates; and changing market conditions. Vectren’s nonutility businesses support its regulated utilities pursuant to service contracts by providing natural gas supply services, coal, and energy infrastructure services. In most instances, Vectren’s ability to maintain these service contracts depends upon regulatory discretion and negotiation with interveners, and there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain future service contracts, or that existing arrangements will not be revisited. Vectren’s synfuel results would be adversely affected if synfuel credits are limited or disallowed. Under current tax laws, synfuel related tax credits and fees end after 2007. The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the U.S. Senate’s Committee on Governmental Affairs has an ongoing investigation relating to synfuel tax credits. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private letter rulings, which concluded that the synthetic fuel produced at the Pace Carbon facilities should qualify for tax credits. The IRS has completed tax audits of Pace Carbon for the years 1998 through 2001 without challenging tax credit calculations. As a partner of Pace Carbon, Vectren has reflected synfuel tax credits in its consolidated results from inception through December 31, 2006 of approximately $92 million, of which approximately $81 million have been generated since 2001. To date, Vectren has been in a position to utilize or carryforward substantially all of the credits generated. Synfuel tax credits are only available when the price of oil is less than a base price specified by the tax code, adjusted for inflation. For 2007, Vectren has hedged 100% of expected production to help offset a phase-out due to high oil prices. However, during the year, the hedges could cause quarterly earnings volatility due to mark-to-market accounting. If production is not interrupted during 2007, the average oil price will have an immaterial effect on annual earnings. However, if oil prices increase enough to produce a substantial phase-out prior to year-end and production is halted or Vectren chooses to “opt out”, the proceeds on hedges and the reduction in production costs could result in increased earnings. Also, if production is interrupted for reasons other than oil prices and tax credits are not earned, the Company could be at risk for the cost of the hedges. -13- Table of Contents Vectren’s nonutility group competes with larger, full-service energy providers, which may limit its ability to grow its business. Competitors for Vectren’s nonutility businesses include regional, national and global companies. Many of Vectren’s competitors are well-established and have larger and more developed networks and systems, greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. This competition, and the addition of any new competitors, could negatively impact the financial performance of the nonutility group and the Company’s ability to grow its nonutility businesses. Catastrophic events could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities and operations. Workforce risks could affect Vectren’s financial results. The Company is subject to various workforce risks, including but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages. A downgrade in Vectren’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital. The following table shows the current ratings assigned to certain outstanding debt by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s: Current Rating Standard Moody’s & Poor’s Utility Holdings, Indiana Gas and SIGECO senior unsecured debt Baa1 A- Utility Holdings commercial paper program P-2 A-2 The current outlook of both Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s is stable and are categorized as investment grade. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s lowest level investment grade rating is BBB- and Baa3, respectively. Vectren may be required to obtain additional permanent financing (1) to fund its capital expenditures, investments and debt security redemptions and maturities and (2) to further strengthen its capital structure and the capital structures of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies downgrade the Company’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, or withdraw Vectren’s ratings, it may significantly limit Vectren’s access to the debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, and the Company’s borrowing costs would increase. In addition, Vectren would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Finally, there is no assurance that the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable. Anti-takeover provisions in Vectren’s certificate of Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws as well as Vectren’s shareholders rights plan and certain provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change in control that might be beneficial to the interests of the Company’s stockholders. Provisions in Vectren’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws as well as Vectren’s shareholders rights plan and certain provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law (the ICBL) may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of the Company even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of its shareholders. For example, Vectren’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws prohibit its shareholders from calling a special meeting, require advance notice for proposals by shareholders and nominations, and prevent the removal of Vectren’s directors by its shareholders other than for cause and with the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors. In addition, the Vectren board has adopted a shareholder rights agreement designed to deter certain takeover tactics that may discourage potential takeover attempts. The IBCL also limits certain business combination transactions between Vectren and any person who acquires 10% or more of the Company’s common shares (an "interested shareholder") without its board's approval or, in certain cases, the approval of holders of a majority of Vectren’s shares not owned by such interested shareholder. The IBCL may also cause a shareholder acquiring shares of the Company’s common stock beyond specified thresholds to lose the right to vote those shares unless a majority of disinterested common shares approves the exercise of such voting rights. The foregoing may adversely affect the market price of Vectren’s common stock by discouraging potential takeover attempts that the Company’s stockholders may favor. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 