Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. As discussed in “Forward Looking Statements” in Item 1 above, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements, including as a result of the risks described in the cautionary statements in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in our other filings with the SEC, and in material incorporated by reference. We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS Our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable and are likely to fluctuate. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. We manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels in a particular quarter do not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. Because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. Factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: • industry and global economic and market conditions, such as the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the markets addressed by our and our customers’ products; • global economic weakness, including insufficient credit available for our customers to purchase our products; • demand for, and market acceptance of, new and existing products; • successful development of new products; • timing of new product introductions and new product performance and quality; • successful integration of acquisitions; • manufacturing difficulties, such as the availability and utilization of manufacturing capacity and raw materials; • failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations consistent with our expectations; • pricing pressures and other competitive factors, such as competitors’ new products; • competitors with significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources; • changes in product mix; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • product obsolescence; • the ability to develop and implement new technologies and to obtain protection of the related intellectual property; 9 Table of Contents • legal challenges to our products and technology, such as intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims; • customer service; • the extent that customers order and use our products and services in their business; • legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation; • transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as natural disasters, wars, and terrorist activities; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • the need for additional capital. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Other factors that could influence demand include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. The credit crisis could cause a number of negative effects on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting our treasury operations. Other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. Downturns in the macroeconomic business cycle could reduce our revenues and profitability. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, which could create significant variation in our operating results. The markets in which we compete may experience downturns in the future that negatively affect our sales. A macroeconomic downturn may cause us to experience a significant decrease in our operating income margins as a result of declining sales and resulting industry changes such as product mix, price competition and costs associated with the need for continual and rapid introduction of new products. The markets for our products depend on continued end-user demand for consumer and business electronics products as well as products in communications and industrial markets. Such demand may be adversely affected by national or global economic uncertainties, such as continuing increases in oil prices, fluctuating interest rates, subprime mortgage failures and other disruptions in credit markets, and other matters that contribute to reductions in consumer or corporate spending. As a result our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. Business interruptions could harm our business. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our internal wafer fabrication facility is located on the east coast of Florida. Operations at these facilities experience disruptions during tropical storms and hurricanes. Further, our corporate headquarters is located near major earthquake fault lines in California and we have been unable to obtain earthquake insurance at reasonable costs and limits. In the event of a major hurricane, earthquake, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions, any of which could materially adversely affect us. In addition, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If the operations of our suppliers are affected by natural disasters or business disruptions, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such disruptions could, in the future, have a material adverse effect on us. We are also heavily reliant on third party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors, from our foundries to assembly and test sites, primarily in Asia, and for shipments to customers of our final product. This includes ground and air freight 10 Table of Contents and may also include seaborne freight. Any significant disruption of such freight business globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, could materially affect our ability to generate revenues. Business interruption insurance may not provide enough protection to compensate us for losses that may occur. Accordingly, any of these disruptions could significantly harm our business. Our business has been and is expected to continue to be characterized by average selling prices (“ASPs”) that decline over relatively short time periods, which can negatively affect our results of operations unless we are able to sell more units, reduce our costs, and introduce new products with higher ASPs or some combination thereof. ASPs for our products historically have declined over relatively short time periods. For example, in fiscal year 2009 our ASPs decreased by approximately six percent compared with fiscal year 2008; and in fiscal year 2007 our ASPs decreased by approximately ten percent compared with fiscal year 2006. Declining sales prices at the product level has been a phenomenon of the semiconductor industry for much of its existence. While fiscal year 2008 did not reflect this decline due to the rapidly changing economic environment, we expect sales prices will decline in the foreseeable future. We are unable to predict pricing conditions for any future periods. When our average selling prices decline, our net sales and net income decline unless we are able to compensate by selling more units, reduce our costs or introduce new, higher margin products that incorporate advanced features. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO PRODUCTION OPERATIONS Production time and the cost of our products could increase if we were to lose one of our suppliers or if one of those suppliers increased the prices of raw materials. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. We purchase raw materials, such as silicon wafers, from a limited number of suppliers on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because we depend on third party foundries and other manufacturing subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test some of our products, we may experience delays beyond our control in delivering those products to our customers. We use both internal wafer fabrication facilities and third-party wafer fabrication foundries in manufacturing our products. We intend to continue to rely on third party foundries and other specialist suppliers for most of our manufacturing requirements and most of our assembly and testing requirements. However, certain of these third party foundries are not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price. As a result, we cannot directly control semiconductor delivery schedules, which could lead to product shortages, quality assurance problems and increases in the cost of our products. We may experience delays and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain semiconductors within the time frames and in the volumes required by us at an affordable cost or at all. Any disruption in the availability of wafers and other semiconductor materials or any problems associated with the delivery, quality or cost of the fabrication, assembly and testing of our products could significantly hinder our ability to deliver our products to our customers and may result in a decrease in sales of our products. If the third party foundries we currently use are unable to provide our products, we may be required to seek new foundries and we cannot be certain that their services will be available at favorable terms or that sufficient capacity will be available in a reasonable time period. In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a highly controlled environment. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by a third party foundry could adversely affect the foundry’s ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. If the third party foundries we currently use do not achieve adequate yields or product reliability, our customer relationships could suffer. This could ultimately lead to a loss of sales of our products and have a negative effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We rely on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and services. We rely on wafer fabrication foundries and other test, assembly and packaging subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. This reliance involves risks associated with the impact of earthquakes and other natural disasters on us, including temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials and equipment and availability of key services including transport. Any prolonged inability on the part of these foundries and/or subcontractors to serve us as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Delays in production at new facilities, in implementing new production techniques or in curing problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions may lower yields and reduce our revenues and profitability. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously modified to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our future profitability and we may not be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. In addition, as is common in the semiconductor industry, we may experience difficulty in beginning production at new facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes. Resultant delays may range in length from one month to six months. During the past five years we have experienced one material delay (six months) of starting production at a new facility. As a consequence, we suffered delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Increases in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. We rely on a limited number of packaging subcontractors that may not have adequate capacity or the financial resources to meet our product delivery requirements. We rely on a limited number of independent packaging subcontractors with whom we do not have long-term contracts. A substantial majority of the IC wafers we fabricate or purchase from our outside foundries are sent to our packaging subcontractors for packaging and assembly. Our reliance on these subcontractors involves significant risks to us, including the possibility that the subcontractors will lack adequate capacity or the financial resources to deliver our products at the times and in the quantities that we request, the subcontractors will eliminate process technologies necessary for our products and the quality of our products will suffer from our lack of control over packaging and delivery. These subcontractors may discontinue doing business with us for a variety of reasons, including economic factors. As a result, we may experience product delivery and quality assurance problems, which in turn may harm our reputation and operating results. If our products contain defects or fail to achieve industry reliability standards, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant unexpected expenses and lose sales opportunities. Our insurance coverage for such events may be insufficient. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects. Errors and defects may: • cause delays in product introductions and shipments; • result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; • cause us to incur increased charges due to obsolete or unusable inventory; • require design modifications; or • decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with these products, resulting in product returns and lost sales. In addition, we may not find defects or failures timely, which may result in loss or delay in market acceptance and could significantly harm our operating results. Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Further, such claims might be significantly higher than the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved, as we are usually a component supplier with limited value content relative to the value of a complete system or sub-system. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages for which we may have insufficient insurance coverage. Any of these claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and business. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO R&D, ENGINEERING, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND NEW TECHNOLOGIES We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products required to maintain or expand our business. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to achieve design wins for our products with current and future customers and introduce new or improved products that meet customer needs while achieving favorable margins. A failure to achieve design wins, to introduce these new products in a timely manner or to achieve market acceptance for these products, could harm our business. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand, future technological developments and a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • timely and efficient completion of process design and development; 12 Table of Contents • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; • product performance; • the quality and reliability of the product; and • effective marketing, sales and service. The failure of our products to achieve market acceptance due to these or other factors could harm our business. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect this intellectual property, we could lose our right to prevent others from using our key technologies, resulting in decreased revenues. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to develop or obtain and subsequently maintain proprietary technology used in our principal products. We rely on intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, rights existing under patent, trade secret, trademark, maskwork and copyright law, to protect this technology. Some of our technology is not covered by any patent or patent application, and there are risks that: • some of the more than 1,100 patents that we own may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged; • the patents that we own may not provide competitive advantages to us; or • some of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued with the initially sought scope of the claims sought by it, if issued at all. Further, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around our patents. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, maskwork and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. We also seek to protect our proprietary technology, including technology that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure that these agreements will always be undertaken or will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. Some of our current licenses to use others’ technology and intellectual property are scheduled to expire periodically over the next several years, unless extended. We will need to negotiate renewals of these agreements or obtain the technology and intellectual property from alternative sources. We may not be able to obtain alternative technology and intellectual property, or renewals on substantially similar terms as those that currently exist or at all. The failure to protect our intellectual property, to extend its existing license agreements, or utilize alternative technology could adversely affect our revenues. Products that we manufacture and sell, or products formerly produced and sold by us and now manufactured and sold by purchasers of business that we have divested, may infringe other parties’ intellectual property rights. We may have to pay others for infringement and misappropriation of their intellectual property rights, suspend the manufacture, use or sale of some affected products, or incur the cost of defending in a litigation, resulting in significant expense to us. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We have received, and may receive in the future, notices of claims of infringement and misappropriation of other parties’ proprietary rights. In the event of an adverse decision in a patent, trademark, copyright, maskwork or trade secret action, we could be required to withdraw the product or products found to be infringing from the market or redesign products offered for sale or under development. We have, at times, assumed indemnification obligations in favor of our customers that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding of our infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. We have also, at times, assumed indemnification obligations in favor of the purchasers of businesses that we have divested that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights by those purchasers. These indemnification obligations would be triggered for reasons including the sale or supply of a product that was later discovered to infringe another party’s proprietary rights. Whether or not these infringement claims are successfully asserted, we would likely incur significant costs and diversion of our resources with respect to the defense of these claims. To address any potential claims or actions asserted against us or those we have indemnified, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights. However, in such an instance, a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technology and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages, which may include enhanced damages for willful infringement, and incur significant attorneys’ fees; 13 Table of Contents • indemnify customers for damages they might suffer if the products they purchase from us infringe intellectual property rights of others; • indemnify purchasers of businesses that we have divested for damages they might suffer if certain of the products they sell infringe intellectual property rights of others; • stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of some processes; or • obtain licenses to intellectual property rights covering products and technology that we may, or have been found to, infringe or misappropriate such intellectual property rights. We are subject to litigation risks. We are, from time to time, subject to legal claims. We are involved in a variety of routine legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operation. However, claims, the claims process, and litigation are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. An unfavorable resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Our future success depends on international sales and the management of global operations. Non-U.S. sales accounted for approximately 84% of our revenue in fiscal year 2009. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant majority of our total revenue in future years. We are subject to various challenges related to the management of global operations, and international sales are subject to risks including, but not limited to: • trade balance issues; • economic and political conditions; • changes in currency controls; • differences in our ability to acquire and enforce our intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; • our ability to develop relationships with local suppliers; • compliance with U.S. laws and regulations; • compliance with international laws and regulations, including the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”), which bans lead and certain other substances from products put on the market; • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; • the need for technical support resources in different locations; • our ability to secure and retain qualified people for the operation of our business; and • the actions of foreign sovereign governments. Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a large and fast growing market for semiconductors and therefore an area of additional and continued growth for our business. As the business volume between China and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between China, Taiwan, Japan, and the United States, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would adversely affect our business with China and/or Taiwan and perhaps the entire Asia/Pacific region. A significant trade disruption in these areas could have a material, adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could increase operating expenses and negatively affect our financial performance and results of operations. While we and our subsidiaries transact business primarily in U.S. dollars, and most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of the costs and revenues is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro and the Japanese Yen. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect the costs of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. From time to time, we have engaged in, and may continue to engage in, exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. However, any hedging technique that we may implement may not be effective or may result in foreign exchange hedging losses. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments. As a global company headquartered in the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our operations or our sales in the recent past but could significantly limit them in the future. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. Although these restrictions and laws have not significantly restricted our operations in the recent past, there is a risk that they could do so in the future. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO SALES, MARKETING AND COMPETITION Our business is very competitive, and increased competition could reduce gross margins and the value of an investment in our company. The semiconductor industry and the semiconductor product market specifically are intensely competitive. Competition is based on price, product performance, quality, reliability and customer service. The gross margins realizable in our markets can differ across regions, depending on the economic strength of end-product markets in those regions. Even in strong markets, price pressures may emerge as competitors attempt to gain more market share by lowering prices. Competition in the various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have and thus can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Some of our competitors may have better established supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers. Competitors include manufacturers and designers of standard semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits, and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products with superior performance attributes in the future. We compete against larger, more established entities as well as foreign and other market entrants and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. The semiconductor industry is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, some of which have substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants in the semiconductor market, especially Asian-based producers. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of integrated circuit technology depends on several factors, including: • success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies; • protection of our proprietary products, processes, trade secrets and know-how; • maintaining high product quality and reliability; • pricing policies of our competitors; • performance of competitors’ products; • ability to deliver in large volume on a timely basis; • marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and • financial strength. To the extent that our products achieve market success, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or lower prices, which, if successful, could harm our business. We depend upon the continued demand for our products in the high-end consumer, communications, industrial and computing markets for a significant portion of our net revenues. We realize substantially all of our net revenues from products sold in the high-end consumer, communications, industrial and computing markets. Therefore, our success currently depends on the continued acceptance of our products within these markets and our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis for these markets. These markets may experience changes in demand that will adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to satisfy rapidly increasing demand for our products on a timely basis and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices. Historically, the often cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in sustained and short-term periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly. During these periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity 15 Table of Contents (both our internal capacity and our arranged supply and subcontracted capacities) may not be sufficient to satisfy the available demand. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate additional, qualified third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. As a result, our future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly or procure excessive resources in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize as we expect, our operating results may be adversely affected. These capacity expansions by us and other directly competitive analog and mixed-signal IC manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our served and target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results. Rapidly decreasing demand for our products could result in higher costs, excess inventory and price erosion. Factors such as an economic downturn could result in a sudden decrease in demand for our products, adversely affecting our operational results. Overcapacity could result in higher product costs due to contractual obligations, excess inventory, inventory write-downs and price erosion. Difficulties in estimating the amount and timing of sales to our customers could harm our operating results. It is difficult for us to forecast accurately the timing and amount of sales to our customers, which include distributors and original equipment manufacturers. Customers generally take a long time to evaluate products and technologies before committing to design our products into their systems. Moreover, our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules, and customer orders typically may be canceled or rescheduled on short notice to us and without significant penalty to our customers. We do not have substantial non-cancelable backlog and often we are forced to obtain inventory and materials from our manufacturing subcontractors in advance of anticipated customer demand. Because we incur expenses, many of which are fixed, based in part on our forecasts of future revenue, our operating results could be harmed if sales levels are below our expectations. Most of our distributors and resellers, who represent approximately 48% of net sales, can terminate their contract with us with little or no notice. The termination of a distributor could result in a materially negative impact on our business, including net sales and accounts receivable. In fiscal year 2009, our distributors and value-added resellers accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. We generally do not have non-cancelable, long-term contracts with these parties and most can terminate their agreement with us with little or no notice. One distributor accounted for 14% of our net sales in fiscal year 2009. The termination of a significant distributor or reseller could impact our net sales and limit our access to certain end-customers. It could also result in the return of any excess inventory they hold as the distributor. Since many distributors simply resell our products, they generally operate on low profit margins. If a distributor or reseller were to terminate their agreement with us or go out of business, our unsecured accounts receivable from them are subject to collection risk. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, INCLUDING TAXES, AND FINANCIAL REPORTING RULES AND REGULATIONS Environmental liabilities and other governmental regulatory matters could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. We are subject to various environmental laws relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous materials and the discharge of pollutants into the environment. We are also subject to laws relating to workplace safety and worker health which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Harris Corporation has agreed to indemnify us for substantially all environmental liabilities related to events or activities occurring before our acquisition of their semiconductor business. This indemnification does not expire, nor is it subject to a dollar limitation. The nature of our ongoing operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities with respect to environmental matters, including those relating to the on- and off-site disposal and release of hazardous materials, and there can be no assurance that material costs will not be incurred in connection with such liabilities. Based on our experience, we believe that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws (and liability for known environmental conditions) even without the indemnity from Harris will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, we cannot predict: • what environmental or health and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future; • how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted; • the amount of future expenditures which may be required to comply with these environmental or health and safety laws or to respond to future cleanup matters or other environmental claims; or • the extent of our obligations to the purchasers of our environmentally challenged sites. 16 Table of Contents Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates, exposure to additional income tax liabilities and the adoption of new accounting pronouncements regarding income tax accounting. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate, as well as the actual tax ultimately payable, could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. In fiscal year 2007, we adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (FIN 48) (ASC 740.10). FIN 48 requires us to record our tax expense differently than we might otherwise have done in the past based on various estimates of probabilities of sustaining certain tax positions. As a result of this and other factors, our tax expense could be more volatile than in the past. Volatility in tax expense contributes to volatility in reported financial results. Accounting pronouncements are moving toward “fair value” accounting, which also may lead to more volatility in reported earnings, resulting in a decline in our stock price. In recent years, new accounting pronouncements and guidance have been promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that require companies to regularly attempt to determine or estimate the fair value of certain assets and liabilities and adjust those amounts to reflect the revised estimates. Recent pronouncements have broadened this trend to direct how to estimate and account for fair value measurements as well as give companies the option to apply fair value measurements more broadly to many financial assets and liabilities. For us, particularly regarding indefinite-lived intangible assets (“goodwill”), certain other “long-lived assets” such as property, plant and equipment, and stock-based compensation, these standards increase the likelihood that we will encounter a situation requiring a significant adverse adjustment to our statement of operations and earnings per share measures. Such an adverse and significant adjustment to our operating results might cause our investors and the analysts who follow our industry to change their opinion of our prospects. Changes in accounting standards for stock-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. The adoption of new guidance regarding stock-based compensation in 2006 required us to expense our calculated stock-based compensation provided to employees beginning in fiscal year 2006. The adoption of the new guidance reduced our reported earnings by the amount of stock-based compensation in all fiscal years since adoption. The market in which we compete for the skilled employees knowledgeable in our required disciplines is a competitive one. We believe that stock-based compensation is an important part of the overall compensation that we offer to attract and retain such employees. There is some risk that the design of our compensation plans is ineffective at balancing our profitability and employee retention objectives. We are subject to the internal control evaluation and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year reported. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. We have successfully completed our assessment and obtained KPMG LLP’s attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2010. In future years, if we fail to complete this assessment on a timely basis, or if KPMG LLP cannot independently attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of investor confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or the operation of existing controls, could cause us to fail to meet our regulatory reporting obligations on a timely basis. Our independent registered public accounting firm must confirm its independence in order for us to meet our regulatory reporting obligations on a timely basis. Our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, communicates with us at least annually regarding any relationships between KPMG LLP and us that, in their professional judgment, might have a bearing on their independence with respect to us. If, for whatever reason, KPMG LLP finds that it cannot confirm that it is independent of us based on existing securities laws and registered public accounting firm independence standards, we could experience delays or other failures to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. 17 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS STRATEGIES, PERSONNEL AND OTHER OPERATIONS If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our key management and technical personnel, and on our continued ability to hire, integrate and retain qualified management and technical personnel, particularly engineers. Competition for these employees in the analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining these personnel. In addition, it is difficult to obtain work visas for foreign professionals trained in the United States. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees as needed could impair our ability to meet customer and technological demands. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key technical or management personnel could harm our business. To help retain the continued services of some of our key executives, we have entered into employment agreements with some of them. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key personnel. If we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance. An important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. As a result, we may make acquisitions of companies, products or technologies or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies which no longer fit our long-term strategies. Managing an acquired business or disposing of product technologies entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating new personnel, coordinating new product and process development, conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, separating or reorganizing existing business or product groups, in addition to diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired definite-lived intangible assets, immediate expensing of certain acquired R&D project values, goodwill impairment charges and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations, among others. Further, acquisitions may require the potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities and the obligation to meet future cash flow requirements of acquired companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. Any such inabilities, inadequacies, debt incurrence, common stock issuance or assumption of liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We may acquire other companies or purchase or license technology from third parties in order to attain growth or remain competitive and to introduce new products to expanded markets. An element of our business strategy involves expansion through both organic growth and the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products, technologies and design personnel that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. To the extent that we seek acquisitions, we may not be able to purchase or license resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees and the need for regulatory approvals. In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing or selling our stock or borrowing money. We may not be able to find such financings on acceptable terms. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers or third parties. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks; however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 