Risk Factors” and “Item 8. Financial Information — Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” Imports The volume of electricity that can be imported into Italy is limited by the capacity of transmission lines that connect the Italian grid with those of other countries and by concerns relating to the security of the system. Currently, a maximum import capacity of approximately 7,690 MW is available to import energy safely. A law passed in 2003 provides incentives to the development of new transmission infrastructures. In 2005, we controlled approximately 2,000 MW of the total import capacity pursuant to two long-term supply contracts. Since April 1, 2004, the date on which the power exchange started operations, we sell the electricity imported pursuant to these contracts to the Single Buyer under terms set by Ministerial Decree. Until December, 31 2005 the energy we purchased under these long-term supply contracts enjoyed priority access to interconnection capacity for transmission of electricity into Italy from neighboring countries, for up to 2,000 MW. However, in 2006, the French regulatory authority decided not to assign to us any transmission or any reserved capacity for our import of the electricity we purchased under a long-term contract with EDF. As a consequence, only part of the electricity bought under this contract was imported into Italy, with the remaining part being sold in France. We appealed the decision of the French regulatory authority, but on March 30, 2007, the French Supreme Administrative Court rejected our appeal. According to that Court, the regulatory authority acted in accordance with EU law, as clarified by a 2005 judgment of the European Court of Justice on this matter. The decision of the French Supreme Administrative Court is final. In April 2006, the European Commission started proceedings against certain Member States, including Italy, challenging, among other things, priority access for long-term supply contracts. These proceedings are still pending. However, priority access for our long-term contract on the French border has been cancelled for 2007 by both the Italian government and the French regulator. As a consequence we are currently selling electricity under this contract outside of Italy. This contract will expire at the end of 2007. We still enjoy priority access to interconnection capacity for our long-term contract on the Swiss border since Switzerland is not part of the European Union and therefore priority access to interconnection capacity with this country is not affected by the European Commission’s proceedings. This contract expires on December 31, 2011. The Bersani Decree authorized the Ministry of Economic Development to set terms and conditions to allocate the interconnection capacity available after deducting the capacity used by existing long-term contracts, taking into account a fair allocation of the generally less expensive imported electricity between the free and regulated markets if import demand exceeds total interconnection capacity. 66 Table of Contents The allocation mechanism for 2004 set out by the Ministry of Economic Development in accordance with EU law and applied by the Energy Authority and the GRTN considered the total interconnection capacity available at the borders with France and Switzerland (the north-west pool) and Austria and Slovenia (the north-east pool) separately. Interconnection capacity was allocated on a pro-rata basis; in addition, in no case may a single importer hold more than 10% of the interconnection capacity available in any given pool. The Ministry of Economic Development put a new allocation mechanism into effect for 2005. Under the new mechanism, capacity is allocated pursuant to an implicit auction mechanism, with the price to be paid for access to this capacity determined based on the price in the power exchange’s “day-ahead market” (please see “— The Italian Power Exchange,” above). Because of the link to prices on the power exchange, this mechanism may result in higher price volatility for, and an increase in the cost of, imported electricity. As a result, the Energy Authority has also established a mechanism to provide purchasers of imported electricity with an exemption from congestion charges. In 2005, this exemption was awarded by the GRTN on a pro-rata basis in the event applications exceed the total available quantity. In 2006, the exemption was allocated through an auction. The allocation mechanism for 2007 has been changed pursuant to an agreement between Terna and other operators responsible for network operations in neighboring countries. The allocation mechanism for 2007 is based on explicit auctions, i.e. those who take part in the auction bid a price for interconnection capacity. The bidders obtain the right to import electricity on a yearly, monthly and daily basis. The revenues arising from the auctions are shared evenly between the operators responsible for network operations involved. Terna is obliged to use the proceeds of the auctions in favor of final customers. This requires paying a fixed share of the proceeds to the Single Buyer as compensation for the costs it currently incurs in purchasing electricity for final customers. Incentives to Provide Generation Capacity In order to address a current deficit in Italian generation capacity relative to rising electricity demand, the regulatory framework provides incentives to power generators both to build new capacity as well as to maintain their existing plants in good working order and available to cover sudden variations in electricity demand. In 2004, the Energy Authority established a provisional system of payments to remunerate producers that make generation capacity available to the electricity system at times of peak demand, known as “capacity payments.” Capacity payments to a given producer comprise both an amount due for capacity available on “critical” days, which was previously set by the GRTN and is now set by Terna, and a further amount payable when pool market prices fall below specified thresholds, as an extra incentive. This provisional mechanism remains in place. The Energy Authority is currently developing the definitive mechanism, which by law must be market-based and also provide incentives for new generation capacity. New Generation Plants In order to promote investment in new generation facilities, the October 2003 law amending the Bersani Decree included provisions to streamline the authorization procedures relating to the construction of new power generation plants and the renovation and expansion of existing plants. The Marzano Law requires all entities receiving authorization to construct new plants or to increase generating capacity of existing power plants after September 28, 2004, to pay the authorities of the region in which the plant is located compensation (based on generating capacity) for the lost alternative use of the plant site and the impact thereof on surrounding communities, unless the parties agree otherwise. Transmission As noted, we use the term “transmission” to refer to the transport of electricity on high and very high voltage interconnected networks from the plants where it is generated or, in the case of imported energy, from the points of acquisition, to distribution systems. The Italian national electricity transmission grid includes all of Terna’s very high voltage (380/220 kV) and high voltage (150/132 kV) lines. In accordance with a law passed in 2003 that required the reunification of ownership and management of the grid, we no longer control Terna following our disposal of a controlling stake in this company. Please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Discontinued Operations” for additional information. 67 Table of Contents Distribution of Electricity As noted, we use the term “distribution” to refer to the transport of electricity from the transmission grid to end users of electricity. Distribution companies in Italy are required to be licensed by the state and to provide service to all customers who request it, subject to payment of applicable tariffs and to compliance with technical and safety requirements. In addition, distributors serving more than 300,000 customers must distribute electricity to the regulated market through separate companies whose sale activity is the distribution and sale of electricity on the regulated market. Our concessions for the distribution of electricity are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2030. The Bersani Decree sought to promote the consolidation of the Italian electricity distribution industry by providing for the issuance of only one distribution license within each municipality and establishing procedures to consolidate distribution activities under a single operator in municipalities where both we and a local distribution company were engaged in electricity distribution by giving municipal networks the right to request that we sell our distribution network in their municipalities to them. Substantially all of the qualifying distribution companies in municipalities with co-existing networks made requests to purchase our networks in those cities. For more details on the consolidation process, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Distribution of Electricity — Consolidation of Electricity Distribution Networks.” On average, the distribution networks that we have been required to sell were more profitable than our other distribution networks, mainly because distribution in metropolitan areas has lower costs. In 2004, the Energy Authority put in place an equalization system to compensate distributors for the higher costs associated with serving non-urban areas. However, the compensation system does not apply to Enel Distribuzione. Please see “— The Tariff Structure” below. Pursuant to European legislation passed in 2003, we are required to manage distribution and sales as two separate businesses. In 2007, the Energy Authority issued a decision setting out certain requirements that we and all other integrated groups operating distribution and sales need to meet in order to ensure an adequate level of separation or “unbundling”. In particular, unbundling requires that the network activities of distribution companies are managed independently of the other businesses. This implies that our subsidiaries that are involved in distribution must be able to adopt decision concerning network planning and expansion independently. As a consequence, there are limitations on our ability to control their day-to-day operations and investment decisions, though their overall level of investment is nonetheless subject to our control. In addition, there are limitations on the ability of directors to hold seats in one of our distribution subsidiaries if they are also directors of companies involved in other businesses. Similarly, employees of the distribution companies cannot have a financial interest in our other businesses, including stock options. In order to ensure non-discriminatory treatment to all companies wishing to supply electricity to customers in the area of a given distribution company, the distribution company must hold a database with information about customers. The database must be separate from other databases and be accessible on an equal basis to our subsidiaries and other providers. All transactions between the distribution companies and other companies belonging to the Enel Group must be at market prices. There can be no obligation for our distribution companies to purchase goods or services from other companies belonging to the Enel Group. The Energy Authority also envisages that, starting from 2010, metering activities will need to be managed as a separate business from distribution. These rules do not prevent energy groups from having a single company active in distribution of both electricity and gas. Further rules on unbundling, including an obligation to manage distribution networks with at least 100,000 customers through a dedicated company, have been provided by a Law Decree approved in June 2007. Under the Law Decree, the Energy Authority is empowered to issue rules on functional separation of gas storage, distribution and transmission system operators from the rest of the vertically integrated energy group. The Tariff Structure Prices paid by all Italian customers for electricity include a transmission component, a distribution component, a generation component covering the price of the electricity itself and system charges. 68 Table of Contents Under the current electricity tariff regime, all customers pay regulated prices, set either directly by the Energy Authority or in accordance with Energy Authority guidelines and subject to its approval, for the transmission and distribution components and system charges. The transmission and distribution components, together referred to as “transport charges,” are subject to a price cap mechanism aimed at progressively reducing these charges on the basis of annual efficiency targets. For customers purchasing electricity on the regulated market, the Energy Authority also regulates the generation component, which is set on a quarterly basis, while customers purchasing electricity on the free market pay prices agreed through bilateral contracts or on the power exchange. The Energy Authority sets base tariff levels every four years. In setting the base tariff levels, the Energy Authority takes into account: • Operating costs of generation (for electricity prices on the regulated market), transmission and distribution activities, including procurement costs, and amortization and depreciation. In order for operators to be able to recover particular costs, the costs must be both actually incurred by them and recognized by the Energy Authority, • An appropriate return on invested capital, including both equity and debt financing, and • The costs associated with system charges. In 2004, the Energy Authority set new base tariffs for the 2004-2007 period, which have been in force since February 1, 2004. The Energy Authority estimated that the new tariff regime in place for 2004-2007 would result in a reduction of the overall tariff paid by regulated market customers of approximately 13% in real terms (assuming no change in fuel costs and system charges) during the period. The actual results were in line with the Energy Authority’s estimates. Consultation procedures to set tariffs for the 2008-2011 period are in progress. These tariffs will concern transmission, distribution, and metering services. The Energy Authority has announced that the new tariffs will seek to promote efficiency and provide incentives for the development of infrastructure and be based on a simplified mechanism. Final rules will be adopted in the second half of 2007. The actual impact of tariff levels on our revenues depends on a number of factors, including the volume of electricity we sell in the regulated market, fuel prices and the mix of customers we serve. The tariff structure currently in place also includes certain mechanisms to take into account structural factors affecting distributors’ costs. The Energy Authority in 2004 established a price equalizing mechanism intended to minimize the effects of a timing discrepancy in the setting of prices distributors pay to the Single Buyer for electricity to be distributed on the regulated market and the prices that distributors may charge to end users on the regulated market. The prices distributors pay to the Single Buyer for electricity to be distributed on the regulated market are set monthly by the Energy Authority based on the average unit costs incurred by the Single Buyer in connection with its purchases of electricity. However, the generation component included in the overall tariff that distributors may charge to end users on the regulated market is fixed by the Energy Authority on a quarterly basis, as explained in more detail below. In order to minimize the effects of this discrepancy, the Energy Authority has established a price equalizing mechanism applicable for the first time in 2004. The equalizing mechanism is funded through a system charge in an amount set by the Energy Authority, applicable starting in 2005. In 2004, the Energy Authority also put in place a system to compensate distributors that serve areas where costs are significantly higher than the national average due to uncontrollable factors such as population density and geography. The costs to be taken into account in setting this compensation are to be based on infrastructural elements such as length of cables and installation type (aerial or underground). The compensation system does not apply to Enel Distribuzione, but it applies to our subsidiary Deval, which requested approximately €2.4 million as compensation. In September 2006, the Energy Authority granted Deval €1.6 million as compensation. 69 Table of Contents The Energy Authority currently defines the following six tariff categories of electricity consumers: • low-voltage domestic consumers (residential customers), • low-voltage public lighting, • other low-voltage end users, • medium-voltage public lighting, • other medium-voltage end users, and • high-voltage end users. Consultations are ongoing to modify the current tariffs structure. The Energy Authority is seeking to maintain tariffs for domestic low voltage customers even after July 1, 2007 (i.e. when all customers will be able to freely choose their supplier). The Energy Authority is also seeking to introduce a discount system for disadvantaged customers. A new consultation document is expected by the end of June 2007. Generation Component of Electricity Tariffs The generation component refers to the price paid by customers for electricity sold on the regulated market. Prior to the start of the power exchange on April 1, 2004, the Energy Authority determined generation costs based on fixed and variable components of production costs. The fixed-cost component, which was intended to reflect non-fuel operating costs, was based on an estimate of the average recognized fixed costs associated with generation plants in Italy and was set on annual basis. The variable-cost component of the tariffs was principally intended to reflect fuel costs associated with thermal power generation. This system resulted in an increase in the relative profitability of: • Hydroelectric or geothermal generation, since these plants do not incur fuel costs, and • The resale of electricity imported under long-term contracts in effect as of the date of the entry into force of the first Electricity Directive on February 19, 1997, which was frequently cheaper than electricity generated in Italy. The Energy Authority decided to reduce this potential windfall profit for hydroelectric or geothermal producers by establishing a new surcharge to be paid by these producers to the GSE with respect to electricity sold by them. This surcharge applied until December 2001. Pursuant to rules on stranded costs enacted in 2002 (which are described in more detail below), the surcharge on hydroelectric and geothermal generation was abolished as of January 1, 2002. In February 2004, the Energy Authority modified the price electricity producers were permitted to charge to distributors for the electricity to be supplied to regulated customers in order to reduce the component of electricity tariffs related to generation during March 2004. We and other electricity operators challenged this reduction before the Administrative Tribunal of Lombardy, which annulled the Energy Authority decision. The Supreme Administrative Court, however, overruled this decision on January 16, 2006. Accordingly, we were required to reimburse consumers approximately €200 million, which is the difference between the price paid by regulated customers for the electricity supplied in March 2004 and the amount resulting from implementation of the reduction mandated by the Energy Authority. Since April 1, 2004, the Energy Authority sets the generation cost component of the electricity tariff paid by customers on the regulated market every three months on the basis of the average costs incurred by the Single Buyer for the procurement of electricity, both on the power exchange and directly from producers. We sell electricity on the free market through bilateral contracts at prices that are negotiated with each customer and that may vary based on several elements, such as quantity purchased, type of electricity sold and duration of the contract; electricity sold on the power exchange is sold at the price determined through the relevant market mechanism. Please see “— The Italian Power Exchange” above for additional details on these mechanisms. 70 Table of Contents Transmission and Distribution Components As noted above, the regulated tariff for transmission and distribution services, or transport charges, for all customers takes into account both the operating costs of transmission and distribution activities, including procurement costs, and amortization and depreciation, as well as an appropriate return on invested capital. In order for operators to be able to recover particular costs, the costs must be both actually incurred by them and recognized by the Energy Authority. The transmission component of the transport charges is currently set by the Energy Authority. As explained in more detail below, distributors may propose various price options for both residential and non-residential customers, within guidelines set by, and subject to the approval of, the Energy Authority. The costs of transmission and distribution companies used in determining transport charges are subject to a price-cap mechanism. During the 2000-2003 period, the Energy Authority set the annual rate of reduction with respect to total costs (capital costs, depreciation and operating costs) in real terms at 4% for each of the transmission and distribution components. For the period 2004-2007, the Energy Authority has set the annual percentage decrease only for operating costs and depreciation, but excluding capital costs, for transmission and distribution services at 2.5% and 3.5%, respectively. For distributors, the determination of operating costs is required to reflect the average costs incurred by the main distributors for the transport of electricity through the local distribution networks and for the sales-related services they provide to final customers, plus a specified return on invested capital. The return on capital recognized by the Energy Authority for the 2004-2007 period was set at 6.8% for distribution networks and at 6.7% for transmission networks, or a higher percentage for capital invested in transmission network development. Depreciation and invested capital are calculated by the Energy Authority under criteria consistent with international regulatory practices. In setting tariff levels for the 2004-2007 period, the Energy Authority revised the way depreciation costs are calculated for transmission and distribution companies; whereas in the 2000-2003 period, the depreciation costs recognized were based on the value of a company’s network assets and the related depreciation expenses as recorded in companies’ statutory accounts, these costs are now calculated based on the historical cost of infrastructure, as revalued annually. The useful lives of assets considered by the Energy Authority to determine depreciation expenses to be recognized through the transport charges have also been increased to bring them into line with the expected useful life of plant and equipment. Prior to 2004, both the transmission and distribution component of the transport charges paid by non-residential customers to distributors were set on the basis of proposals made by each distributor and approved by the Energy Authority. During that period, the transport charges for residential customers were set directly by the Energy Authority as part of the tariff paid by them to distributors. Starting in 2004, the Energy Authority has directly set the transmission component of the transport charge for all customers, while distributors retain the ability to propose to non-residential customers one or more options for the distribution component of the transport charge, based on the distributors’ costs as described above and within limits set by the Energy Authority. These limits are of two types. One limit sets an aggregate maximum amount of tariff revenues that each distributor will be allowed to receive from all customers belonging to the same category in a single year. A second limit sets the maximum amount of tariff revenues that any distributor will be allowed to receive from a single customer in a given category. If the aggregate limit is exceeded, the distributor must compensate customers for the amount of the excess. The Energy Authority monitors compliance with the individual limit at the time the distributor submits its price options for approval. In addition, distributors must comply with a trade policy code aimed at ensuring transparency. Residential customers do not have any options for the distribution component per se, since the tariff they pay includes the generation component and transport charges without distinguishing between the two. However, distributors may now also offer regulated market customers different tariff options, subject to approval by the Energy Authority. Please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Distribution of Electricity — Telemanagement System” for information regarding our tariff options. 71 Table of Contents System Charges and Other Charges The tariff structure also addresses the need to cover various costs resulting from public policy-related requirements imposed on the Italian electricity industry by providing for the following charges, payable by all electricity consumers: • Charges concerning the electricity system, established by the Ministry of Economic Development, that consist of: • a nuclear surcharge, covering part of the costs incurred by So.g.i.n., the company to which we transferred our discontinued Italian nuclear operations, in connection with the dismantling of nuclear plants and decommissioning of nuclear fuels; this surcharge is designed to cover substantially all of such costs when added to the funds that we transferred to So.g.i.n., • a surcharge that benefits producers from renewable resources, • special surcharges covering the cost of supplying electricity at mandated discounts to certain customers (primarily the Italian state-owned railway company and Acciai Speciali Terni S.p.A., both of which transferred electricity assets to us as part of the nationalization of the Italian electricity industry in 1962), • research and development surcharges, covering related costs, and • certain stranded costs that have not yet been recovered. Please see “— Stranded Costs” below for a discussion of these costs. • Other general interest charges established by the Energy Authority to adjust or refine the operation of the tariff mechanism, which include adjustments to cover potential differences between distributors’ costs as recognized under the current tariff structure and actual tariff revenues. • Incentives for the enhancement of the quality of service. • Charges recovered through upward adjustments to the price caps, as established by the Energy Authority, which cover: • costs deriving from unforeseeable events, changes in the regulatory framework or new obligations for universal service, • costs deriving from demand-side management initiatives intended to promote a more efficient use of resources by electricity customers, including information campaigns, and • additional recognized costs incurred in connection with the offer of value-added services on top of basic options. Revenues deriving from system charges are remitted to and managed by the Cassa Conguaglio per il Settore Elettrico, or the Equalization Fund, a public entity charged with redistributing these revenues to the electricity companies entitled to receive them. Stranded Costs Stranded costs are current costs deriving from contractual commitments or investment decisions that electricity companies: • undertook for reasons of public policy, • undertook at a time when the electricity markets were not yet open to competition, and • could have been recovered in a monopoly regime but cannot be recovered under a regime of competitive electricity pricing. To facilitate the transition to open electricity markets, the European Commission has stated that electricity companies should be refunded their stranded costs provided that: • they minimize the impact of those costs (and, hence, the amount of the refund) on their future operations, and 72 Table of Contents • they submit an industrial plan demonstrating the long-term profitability of the activity related to the stranded costs. A law enacted in April 2003 limited the amount of stranded costs we are entitled to recover for periods through 2003 to (i) certain costs relating to our generation plants incurred to comply with requirements that were imposed in the past concerning their design and operation (for example, because of governmental policies, we built most of our plants to ensure a high degree of flexibility in the types of fuel that they can use), and (ii) costs arising from our inability to fulfill our Nigerian LNG contract because of the Italian government’s failure to allow construction of a required regasification terminal. The April 2003 law provides that for periods after January 1, 2004, we will be limited to recovering only those stranded costs associated with the Nigerian LNG contract. In August 2004, the MEF and the Ministry of Economic Development issued a joint decree that determined the overall amount of stranded costs we are entitled to recover. On December 1, 2004, following the European Commission’s approval of the decree pursuant to the state aid rules of the European Union, we became entitled to recover approximately €513 million on account of stranded costs related to our generation plants for the period 2000-2003. The amount of stranded costs related to the Nigerian LNG contract we are entitled to recover was determined to be approximately €555 million in respect of the 2000-2003 period and approximately €910 million in respect of the 2004-2009 period. The timing and manner in which these amounts are to be paid to us were set out in a decree issued jointly by the Ministry of Economic Development and the MEF on June 22, 2005. The decree provides that stranded costs related to the Nigerian LNG contract for the period ending in 2004 and stranded costs related to our generation plants will be reimbursed by December 2009 through quarterly payments. Stranded costs related to the Nigerian LNG contract for the period from 2004 through 2009 will be limited to the value of gas effectively used for electricity generation, calculated on a yearly basis. The total amount of payments in consideration of stranded costs we received was €361 million as of December 31, 2005, €1,230 million as of December 31, 2006, and €1,296 million as of March 31, 2007. As of March 31, 2007, we accrued a residual credit of €285 million, and €410 million will become due in the period from 2007-2009. Continuity and Quality of Service Regulation Since July 1, 2000, the Energy Authority has issued guidelines setting targets for electricity service continuity and quality. Continuity of service is measured by the frequency and total duration in minutes of service interruptions and is assessed with reference to annual targets set by the Energy Authority. Quality of service is measured in terms of waiting time for the performance of the most frequent commercial activities (such as connection cost estimates, connections, disconnections and reconnections). The Energy Authority has instituted an incentive system whereby it grants bonuses to companies that exceed its targets for continuity of service and imposes penalties on companies that fail to meet them. We have consistently exceeded our continuity of service targets since 2000. Distributors that outperform the targets are paid their bonuses through a component of the tariff structure. We received bonuses of €63 and €118 million for having outperformed the continuity of service targets in 2004 and 2005. We expect that the Energy Authority will assign bonuses with respect to 2006 in the second half of 2007. With respect to quality of service, if a distribution company fails to meet standards set by the Energy Authority in providing a particular service to a customer, the company is required to reimburse that customer an amount that is fixed by the Energy Authority. We have achieved most of the quality of service targets set by the Energy Authority, and have not been required to make material reimbursements. We believe that the level of revenues expected under the current tariff structure will allow us and other distributors to cover the costs we need to incur to meet the continuity and quality of service targets set by the Energy Authority. See also “— Business — The Enel Group — Domestic Sales Division — Continuity and Quality of Network Service.” In May 2005, the Energy Authority issued a consultation document, subject to public comment through June 30, 2005, proposing to institute a system of automatic compensation payable by electricity distributors to affected customers in the event of a blackout of other prolonged service interruption. Under these proposals, 73 Table of Contents compensation would be payable by a distributor that fails to restore service within eight hours from the start of the interruption, if the interruption has not been caused by damage to the distributor’s facilities, or within 24 hours from the start of the interruption, if the interruption has been caused by damage to the distributor’s facilities. The Energy Authority’s proposals also provide for incentive mechanisms for distributors to restore service as soon as possible in the event of a widespread and prolonged service interruption. The Energy Authority has issued further consultation documents in June 2006 and January 2007. The Energy Authority is proposing to distinguish between “exceptional” and “normal” circumstances. Customers will be entitled to claim a fixed sum as compensation in both cases. Compensation for interruptions that take place in “exceptional” circumstances will be paid by a fund managed by the Equalization Fund. The fund is financed by final customers, distributors and Terna. It is yet unclear how the Energy Authority intends to deal with sharing of responsibilities between Terna and distributors in complex cases where interruptions involve also the transmission network. The Energy Authority is expected to issue a final decision in the second half of 2007. In April 2007, the Energy Authority started the first consultation to define new standards for the continuity and quality of electricity service for the 2008-2011 period. The Energy Authority’s proposal under consultation includes rules on the maximum number of interruptions allowed, new quality measurement systems, promotion of specific measures to improve distribution networks’ reliability and safe operations. To implement the measures to improve distribution networks, the Energy Authority is proposing to apply a higher measure of remuneration of cost of capital than the one foreseen for the remuneration of capital invested in distribution networks. Promotion of Renewable Resources In 1992, the Comitato Interministeriale Prezzi, an Italian governmental committee, issued Regulation 6/92 (“CIP 6”), which established incentives for new generation plants using renewable resources and for the sale of electricity produced from renewable resources. Initially under the CIP 6 regime, we had been required to purchase substantially all of the qualifying domestic production of electricity from renewable resources at fixed prices. In November 2000, the Ministry of Economic Development issued a decree that transferred all energy produced from renewable resources under the CIP 6 regime to the GSE as of January 1, 2001. Under current regulations, the GSE is required to purchase all CIP 6 electricity, which it resells to Eligible Customers and, starting from 2004, also to the Single Buyer. The Single Buyer has a right to a predefined quota of CIP 6 electricity. Until 2003, Eligible Customers obtained CIP 6 electricity pursuant to an auction mechanism; starting from 2004, they are awarded CIP 6 electricity on a pro-rata basis. The GSE sells “green certificates” representing electricity from renewable resources purchased from CIP 6 producers. The total annual CIP 6 electricity production in 2005 was equal to approximately 50 TWh, in line with the amount produced in 2004. In 2006, the actual production was equal to 49 TWh and GSE estimates that total annual CIP 6 electricity production will slightly decrease in 2007. The Bersani Decree provided that, starting in 2001, all companies introducing more than 100 GWh of electricity generated from conventional sources into the national transmission grid in any year must, in the following year, introduce into the national transmission grid an amount of electricity produced from newly qualified renewable resources equal to at least 2% of the amount of such excess over 100 GWh, net of co-generation, self-consumption and exports. Electricity from renewable resources may be produced directly or purchased from other producers who have obtained tradable “green certificates” representing a fixed amount of electricity certified as generated from renewable resources. In addition, the Bersani Decree granted priority dispatching to energy produced from qualified renewable resources. An EU directive issued in September 2001 set targets for energy production from renewable resources, requiring that by 2010 a share equal to 22% of total electricity consumed in the EU be generated from renewable resources and providing recommended national targets to achieve this goal. Italy adopted legislation to implement this directive in December 2003, setting a 22.5% target for total production of electricity from renewable resources by 2010, lower than the 25% target for Italy recommended in the EU directive. December 2003 legislation amending the Bersani Decree provided for a progressive increase in the 2% share of electricity produced from newly qualified renewable resources electricity generators are required to introduce into the national transmission grid. For 2004, the percentage was increased to 2.35%. A further 0.35 percentage points increase applied in each of 2005 and 2006. Further increases shall be implemented for the three-year periods starting in 2007 and in 2010, given that EU Member States have agreed in March 2007 to achieve at least a 20% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 74 Table of Contents by 2020 compared to 1990 and increase to 20% the portion of primary energy consumption to be generated from renewable energy sources. This will affect national regulation on the promotion of renewable sources including the provisions of targets for Italy. Hydroelectric Power Under the Bersani Decree, all of our licenses for the generation of electricity from large bodies of water, which had originally been granted to us for an indeterminate period of time, were instead to expire in April 2029. In addition, the Bersani Decree automatically extended to December 31, 2010 the term of all hydroelectric licenses for the generation of electricity from large bodies of water that were granted to other electricity producers and were scheduled to expire before such date. All hydroelectric licenses expiring after December 31, 2010 were to retain their original expiration date. The decree also provided that in any bidding contest, an existing license holder would enjoy preferential treatment over competitors in the case of equal bids. In January 2004, the European Commission determined that certain of the Italian regulations regarding hydroelectric concessions were contrary to EU law. In particular, the European Commission objected to the renewal preferences granted to existing holders of concessions (and in the region of Trentino-Alto Adige, to the operator controlled by the local authorities) upon the expiry of those concessions, as well as to the fact that the regulations provided for the expiration of all concessions in 2029 (and for the region of Trentino-Alto Adige, in 2010), even though these concessions had previously been of perpetual duration. In December 2005, Italy amended the relevant regulations, abrogating the renewal preferences and postponing the expiration of all concessions for additional 10 years. As a consequence, on June 28, 2006, the European Commission partially closed the proceedings. The proceedings concerning regulations in force in Trentino-Alto Adige remain open. However, they were suspended pending an action brought by five regional governments and the local authorities of the region of Trentino-Alto Adige before the Italian Constitutional Court, whereby they sought to obtain the reinstitution of the original expiry dates for operations they control. The Constitutional Court may not issue a judgment on this matter, though, because in January 2007 a law cancelled the 10-year postponement granted in 2005. We expect a decision by the European Commission on this matter by the end of 2007. Taxes Since January 1, 2001, consumers of electricity services have been subject to three indirect taxes, the first two of which are not applicable to residential customers whose consumption is below certain specified thresholds, qualifying them for a social protection scheme: • A state tax for residential uses (of €0.0047/kWh) and for other uses (of €0.0031/kWh excluding users with consumption over 1.2 GWh per month), • Additional local taxes that vary from €0.0093/kWh up to a maximum of €0.0204/kWh, and • Value-added tax of 20% for all users with the exception of residential and industrial customers (who are taxed at a rate of 10%). Gas Regulation Italian regulations enacted in May 2000 pursuant to EU Directive 98/30, which mandated the general liberalization of natural gas markets in the member states, seek to introduce competition into the Italian natural gas market through the liberalization of the import, export, transport, dispatching, distribution and sale of gas. In 2007 or 2008, the Italian government may enact new regulations which, pursuant to EU Directive 2003/55, aim at fostering competition in the European natural gas market mainly by enhancing the separation, with respect to corporate governance and accounting, between businesses relating to the operation of a network (i.e. transport, distribution) from activities concerning the supply/production of gas. Gas Eligible and Non-Eligible Customers Until December 31, 2002, only certain large consumers known as Gas Eligible Customers were able to freely choose their supplier of natural gas. During the same period, customers, mainly residential, who did not qualify as 75 Table of Contents Gas Eligible Customers, which we refer to as Gas Non-Eligible Customers, were obliged to purchase gas from distributors operating in their local area at a tariff set by the Energy Authority. Since January 1, 2003, all customers have had direct access to the natural gas system and the right to freely choose their natural gas supplier. However, natural gas suppliers are still subject to regulation with respect to the tariffs they may charge to domestic customers who were considered Gas Non-Eligible Customers at that date. In 2005, the churn rate of Italian customers amounted to 1.1%, a large part of which chose Enel as their supplier. Please see “— Distribution Tariffs and Sale Tariffs for Gas Non-Eligible Customers” below. Transport and Storage Companies engaged in the transport and dispatching of gas must allow access to their gas transport networks to third parties, provided that they have enough capacity and that granting such access is economically and technically feasible (TPA — Third Party Access). The Energy Authority establishes transport fees based on proposals from the individual operators. Pursuant to a law enacted in 2006, the Italian government is expected to adopt a Decree pursuant to which, after two years from its entry into force, no single person or company will be allowed to own more than 20% of the shares of State-controlled companies operating national gas transport networks. Operators of natural gas storage facilities must obtain a concession from the Ministry of Economic Development and are required to provide storage services to third parties upon request, provided that they have enough capacity and that giving such storage services is economically and technically feasible. In addition, importers are required to maintain storage reserves equal to 10% of the gas they import from countries outside the EU. Pursuant to a bill currently being examined by the Italian Parliament (the “Bersani bill”), in order to increase gas supply and foster competition in the Italian market, the Italian government may enact new regulations to promote investment in new gas import facilities and the MEF may grant financial incentives to local authorities authorizing the construction of these facilities within their territory. The Marzano Law provides incentives for investment in new natural gas transport and storage facilities, as well as LNG regasification terminals, by exempting the investing companies from granting TPA to the new facilities. The exemption is granted on a case by case basis for no less than 80% of the capacity of such facilities and for a minimum of 20 years. Distribution and Sale of Gas The term distribution refers to the transport of gas through local networks for delivery to customer premises. Since January 1, 2002, gas distribution activities may be carried out only by companies that are not otherwise engaged in the natural gas industry, and gas sales to end users may be made only by companies that are not otherwise engaged in the natural gas industry except as importers, producers or wholesalers. In January 2007, a resolution by the Energy Authority required all groups or companies engaged in gas transport, distribution, storage, metering, and regasification of LNG to ensure the independence of each of these activities from any other businesses in the gas and electricity industries, with very limited exceptions, through separate accounts and fully independent governing bodies. Please see “— Overview of Regulation in the Energy Sector in Italy.” Restrictions on Sale and Imports of Gas The sale of gas to end users is made under an authorization granted by the Ministry of Economic Development , which both Enel Energia and Enel Trade have obtained. Enel Trade is also authorized to import gas to be sold to power plants and wholesalers. Each year from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2010, no single operator has been allowed to hold a market share higher than 50% of domestic sales to final customers. In 2005, based on data provided by the Energy Authority, Enel had a market share in sales of natural gas of approximately 16%. In addition, no single operator is allowed to introduce imported or national gas into the domestic transmission grid in a quantity exceeding a specified percentage of the total, set at 75% in 2002 and decreasing by two percentage points each year thereafter, to 61% in 2010. The applicable percentage is calculated net of quantities of gas consumed by the relevant operator or by its controlled or affiliated companies. 76 Table of Contents Rules Governing Distribution of Gas Under Italian regulations, distributors operate under concessions awarded by local authorities pursuant to tender procedures for periods not longer than 12 years. Through service agreements, local authorities may regulate the terms and conditions for the provision of the service and the quality objectives to be achieved. The tenders are awarded based on financial terms, quality and safety standards, investment plans and technological and management skills offered. Distributors are required to connect to the distribution network any customer who so requests. Prior to enactment of the Marzano Law, gas distribution concessions awarded prior to May 2000 by means other than competitive tender expired by law at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2005, with the expiration date extendible for up to five years under certain conditions. The Marzano Law, as interpreted by the Ministry of Economic Development in November 2004, provided instead that gas distribution concessions are to expire at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2007, with the expiration date extendible for up to five years under certain conditions. However, certain local authorities have passed measures that would terminate gas distribution concessions in their jurisdictions on December 31, 2005. The Italian administrative courts before which these measures have been challenged disagreed with the Ministry of Ministry of Economic Development ’s interpretation of the Marzano Law. To remedy the resulting uncertainty, on February 23, 2006, the Italian parliament approved a law confirming that gas distribution concessions expire by law at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2007, but extended the expiration date to December 31, 2009 under certain conditions. Local authorities may further extend the expiration date by one year. Furthermore, certain gas distribution concessions for southern Italy expire at the later of June 21, 2012 or twelve years from the entry into force of their approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Finally, gas distribution concessions awarded prior to May 2000 by competitive tender expire at the earlier of their original expiration date or December 31, 2012. The majority of our existing gas distribution concessions are currently due to expire on December 31, 2009. In August 2006, the Administrative Court of Lombardy requested the European Court of Justice to assess the compatibility with the EC Treaty of the automatic extension of the expiration dates granted pursuant to the February 2006 law. Pursuant to the Bersani bill, the Italian government may enact regulations to define new award criteria in competitive tenders for distribution concessions, as well as to provide incentives for gas distributors to broaden the territorial scope of their activities. Distribution Tariffs and Sales Tariffs for Gas Non-Eligible Customers In December 2000, pursuant to Italian regulations, the Energy Authority identified tariff criteria that we and other gas distributors and suppliers must apply in setting tariffs for the distribution and supply of gas to Gas Non- Eligible Customers. The tariff criteria for both distribution and supply include a fixed and a variable component reflecting the balance between fixed and variable costs incurred by distributors and suppliers, respectively, and operate to impose a cap on the rates gas distributors and suppliers may charge. The portion of the variable component in the sale tariff relating to the cost of natural gas is revised on a quarterly basis. For distributors, the tariff criteria generally take into account average capital costs, as determined by the Energy Authority based on a sample of selected operators. However, since June 2002, the Energy Authority has permitted distributors to set their rates based on actually incurred capital costs if such costs can be adequately proven. Following the annulment of the previous tariffs by the administrative courts, the Energy Authority has issued a regulation establishing new distribution tariffs for the period October 2004-September 2008. According to the new tariff mechanism, distributors have to apply progressively decreasing tariffs. However, distributors who made investments or merged with other distributors are allowed to apply a lower tariff reduction. We expect these new tariffs to have a positive impact on Enel’s 2007 and 2008 results. From 2004, distributors are also bound by regulations concerning quality of service. So far, the Energy Authority has introduced both penalties for distributors that do not comply with applicable quality of service targets and incentives to achieve higher safety standards. 77 Table of Contents For suppliers, prices charged to Gas Non-Eligible Customers were supposed to be freely set from January 1, 2003. However, in December 2002, the Energy Authority imposed a transitory regime under which suppliers were obliged to continue to supply former Gas Non-Eligible Customers using the tariff criteria established by the Energy Authority and in effect at December 31, 2002, if the Gas Non-Eligible Customers so requested. In December 2004, the Energy Authority revised the 2002 sale tariff criteria for former Gas Non-Eligible Customers in order to reduce the effect of fuel price increases on gas prices. In June 2005, the Administrative Court of Lombardy annulled the Energy Authority’s decision in a series of rulings. Some of these rulings were appealed by the Energy Authority and subsequently quashed by the Supreme Administrative Court, while others were not timely appealed and, therefore, became definitive. Consequently, in March 2007, the Energy Authority issued new sale tariff criteria for the period January 2005-June 2008. Under the new criteria, gas sales companies are entitled to apply sale tariffs for these years that are more favorable than the 2004 criteria. With the same resolution, the Energy Authority established the criteria pursuant to which gas sales companies may apply the new tariffs to final customers with respect to previous years. Environmental Matters Our electricity and other operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation, including laws adopted by the Italian parliament or government to implement regulations and directives adopted by the European Union and international agreements on the environment. The principal objective of our environmental policy is to comply with all relevant legislation and to seek to reduce adverse effects that our activities may have on the environment. Since 1996, we have taken the initiative of publishing an annual environmental report. In 2002, we also started publishing a sustainability report, which contains an environmental section. We believe that environmental performance will represent an increasingly important competitive factor in a liberalized market. Environmental regulations affecting our business primarily relate to air emissions, water pollution, waste disposal, noise and the clean up of contaminated sites. The principal air emissions of fossil-fueled electricity generation that pollute the atmosphere are sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate matter. A primary focus of the environmental regulations applicable to our business is an effort to reduce these emissions. We have also given particular attention to seeking to minimize the impact of electromagnetic fields and carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. Electromagnetic Fields The Italian government adopted regulations in 1992 and 1995 relating to exposure to electromagnetic fields applicable to low frequency infrastructure, such as that used for the transmission, distribution and consumption of electricity. These regulations set two types of limits: maximum levels of exposure to electromagnetic fields from new and existing transmission and distribution lines and distribution substations, and minimum distances between transmission or high-voltage distribution lines or substations and residential buildings, office buildings and similarly habited areas for lines built after the adoption of the 1992 regulation. In February 2001, the Italian parliament passed a framework law on electromagnetic field exposure amending these earlier regulations. The 2001 law is intended to protect the general public and workers against alleged potential long-term health effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields generated by both low frequency and high-frequency infrastructures. The law has made it more difficult to install new transmission and distribution lines and substations. Furthermore, the 2001 law provides for the adoption and implementation of programs to restructure electricity transmission and distribution lines, substations and high frequency infrastructures, in accordance with maximum exposure levels. In 2003, two governmental decrees were enacted providing for measures to implement the 2001 law and setting maximum exposure levels, precaution levels and quality targets. However, these measures have not yet taken effect, as they require action from the Italian Authority for Environmental Protection that has not yet been taken. 78 Table of Contents We believe that the costs of complying with these measures, including costs for the related restructuring described above, will not have a material impact on our results of operations. Moreover, because of the 2005 and 2006 disposal of all but 5.12% of our stake in Terna, which owns over 90% of Italy’s power transmission lines, we are no longer materially affected by regulations relating to electricity transmission. Currently, we only own power lines for the distribution of electricity. CO2 Emissions Both the European Union and Italy are signatories to the Kyoto Protocol, which was signed under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In accordance with a burden-sharing agreement among EU member states, Italy has set a target to reduce emissions of CO2 and the other GHGs listed in the Kyoto Protocol over the 2008-2012 period by 6.5% from their 1990 levels. As of 2004, we produced approximately 11% of total GHG emissions in Italy. In implementing the Kyoto protocol, on November 19, 1998, the Italian inter-ministerial committee for economic planning issued the guidelines for Italian policies and measures for the reduction of GHG emissions in order to implement the Kyoto Protocol. These guidelines, which were updated in 2002, set targets for CO2 and other GHG emissions to be achieved through measures concerning various sectors of the Italian economy, including a reduction of carbon produced in thermal electricity generation, an increased use of electricity generation from renewable resources and demand-side management to increase the efficiency of energy use. Furthermore, the guidelines promote certain projects aimed at the development of so called clean energy. In July 2000, we signed a voluntary undertaking with the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Economic Development to reduce the annual level of CO2 emissions produced by our plants during the period between 2002 and 2006 from our level of emissions in 1990. The undertaking anticipates a number of measures to reduce GHGs emissions, including employing high-efficiency technologies, such as CCGT conversions, promoting the use of renewable resources and developing innovative generation technologies. In 2006, our CO2 emissions per power generation unit was equal to 496 g/kWh, i.e. below the target limit set pursuant to this undertaking for that year (equal to 510 g/kWh). In January 1999, the Italian government introduced a carbon tax in accordance with European Union directives. The carbon tax is designed to reduce Italy’s CO2 emissions so as to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. Under the current Italian legislation, the amount of the tax, which is based on fossil fuel consumption, although initially scheduled to increase on an annual basis from 1999 through 2005, has been frozen at the level for 1999. The relevant EU directives provide for a periodic review of this tax, including its possible abolition. We and other European electricity companies believe that, with the introduction of the emission trading rules in January 2005, the carbon tax should have been abolished in order to avoid market distortion and double taxation since both this tax and the emission trading rules have the objective of reducing CO2 emissions to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. In the period between 2003 and 2005, our carbon tax liability decreased from approximately €40 million in 2003 and 2004 to €37 million in 2005. In 2006, our carbon tax liability was equal to €34 million, thus marking a further decrease. Emission Trading With a view to ensuring compliance with the Kyoto Protocol, in 2003 the EU adopted an Emission Trading Directive establishing a scheme for GHG emission allowance trading. . In October 2004, the EU also passed another directive (the so-called “linking directive”), which amended the Emission Trading Directive to allow the use of other flexible mechanisms for limiting GHG emissions. The Emission Trading Directive requires that each member state submit to the European Commission a proposal on how it plans to comply with the directive’s emission limits. This proposal is to consist of an allocation plan by which each member state sets CO2 emissions thresholds for the 2005-2007 period for various industries, including the energy sector, and must provide for fines to be imposed on entities whose emissions exceed these thresholds. The allowable levels for the next period, i.e. 2008-2012, had to be proposed by 2006. 79 Table of Contents With respect to Italy, in July 2004, the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Economic Development submitted to the European Commission a national allocation plan for Italy concerning the 2005-2007 period. Under the national allocation plan, the thresholds for thermal power plants would vary depending on the type of fuel burned, so as not to disadvantage plants that burn fuels such as coal, which, although generating higher levels of emissions, contribute to the stability and reliability of supply. In December 2004, the Italian government put in place the procedures necessary to authorize plants to emit GHGs and to gather the necessary information to grant emission rights. We received the relevant authorizations for our power plants in December 2004. In an amendment to the national allocation plan published on February 2005, the Enel Group was assigned emission quotas of 54 million, 45 million and 45 million metric tons of CO2 for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. On May 25, 2005, the European Commission approved Italy’s national allocation plan, including, however, modifications that reduced the allowable emissions assigned to Italy by 9% (from 255 million metric tons to 232 million per year), which therefore required a revision to the February 2005 emission quota allocations. On February 23, 2006, the Environment Ministry issued a decree establishing the emission quotas for the Enel Group from 2005 through 2007, reducing the quotas we had been granted in February 2005 to 48.2 million, 40.5 million, 39.9 million tons of CO2 for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively. In December 2006, the Environment Ministry and the Ministry of Economic Development submitted to the European Commission a national allocation plan for Italy concerning the 2008-2012 period. In a decision issued in May 2007, the European Commission approved the plan, although it requested modifications that reduced allowable emissions by 6.3% (i.e., 195.8 million metric tons per year). A decision on emission quota allocations by Italian authorities is expected in the second half of 2007. In Italy, Enel’s actual emissions in 2005 and 2006 were higher than the emission quotas to which its plants were entitled by approximately 8 million tons and 11 million tons, respectively. We expect that emissions in 2007 will also exceed allowed emissions by a similar amount. In compliance with the applicable provisions, we have purchase emission rights through the market in order to cover these differences. The quotas allocations do not include allowances reserved for new plants. With respect to our operations in Spain, the national allocation plan approved by the European Commission in 2007 for the 2008-2012 period implied a reduction in allowable emissions (152.3 million metric tons per year, down from 152.7 million metric tons as per the original plan submitted by Spanish authorities). Action by the Spanish authorities to modify the national allocation plan to bring it in line with the European Commission’s decision is expected in the second half of 2007. Enel Viesgo Generacion’s emissions in 2006 were higher than the allowed limit by 0.7 million metric tons. In 2007, we expect an additional shortfall of over 1 million metric tons. Slovakia’s national allocation plan for the period 2008-2012 was approved by the European Commission in December 2006 with a 25% reduction in the proposed allowable emissions. This decision was appealed by Slovakia and a judgment is expected in the second half of 2007. Slovenské elektrárne’s emissions in 2006 were lower than our allowed limit by 0.6 million metric tons. In 2007, we do not expect to exceed our allowances. Our allowable emissions for the period 2008-2012 will depend on the outcome of the appeal against the European Commission’s decision. Under the original plan, we were granted 9.2 million metric tons per year. Bulgaria has yet to submit its national allocation plan to the European Commission. In 2007, we were granted 5.18 million metric tons. We do not expect material adverse consequences from the allocation plan for 2008-2012. The measures that we have implemented in order to comply with the Emission Trading Directive limits and national implementing legislation include: • Switching fuel, • Converting existing oil-fired thermal power plants into gas-fired CCGT turbines or high-efficiency coal-fired plants, • Increasing renewable energy capacity, and • Sourcing CO2 credits through the development of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and Joint Implemetation (JI) projects in the energy sector (in particular geothermal), investing in carbon funds and purchasing emission reductions through bilateral contracting. 80 Table of Contents SO2, NOx and Other Emissions The principal EU directive on air emissions affecting the electricity industry is the large combustion plants directive (“LCPD”). The LCPD requires each EU member state to establish and implement a program of progressive reduction of total SO2 emissions and total NOx emissions from generation plants licensed before July 1, 1987, and to establish emission limits for SO2, NOx and particulate matter from individual generation plants licensed after July 1, 1987. In 2001, new, more stringent emission limits were set in an amendment to the LCPD. Limitations on plant emissions set by Italian legislation are stricter than those envisaged in the LCPD as well as in the 2001 amendment (which Italy implemented in 2006), also requiring 5-year gradual reduction targets of aggregate emissions from plants licensed prior to July 1, 1988 through the end of 2003. We achieved the required reductions in each of the years in which they were applicable, including 2003. In addition, Italy is bound by an EU directive issued in 2001 mandating that member states achieve specified reduction targets on SO2, NOx, volatile organic compounds and NH3 emissions by 2010. To this end, member states were required to establish and implement a program of emissions reduction in order to achieve the targets set in the directive. Italy is also a member of the Helsinki Protocol and the Oslo Protocol, which require signatory countries to reduce SO2 emissions, and the Sofia Protocol, which requires signatories to reduce NOx emissions. The requirements under these protocols have been reflected in Italian law. In addition, in 1990, Italy established a regulation limiting emissions of polluting substances from thermal plants licensed before July 1, 1988 that is more strict than the LCPD and covers a much broader range of pollutants. This regulation required that individual existing thermal plants in Italy reduce emissions to levels similar to those established under the LCPD for individual plants licensed after July 1, 1988. This regulation also provided a time schedule for the implementation of environmental compliance measures at existing plants. In response to this regulation, in 1990 we implemented a significant program of environmental measures that affect our entire thermal generation operation. We submitted this program to the relevant ministries of the Italian government, including those for industry, environment and health. The program was approved and provided for modifications of both physical plant and operating practices. Enel has achieved the targets the Italian regulation provided for the implementation of these environmental compliance measures for generating facilities. We are currently in compliance with the limits set by existing legislation. We had received a derogation from the required limits with regard to our plant at Porto Tolle pending our receipt of required authorizations to effect a conversion of the plant to make it fully compliant. While this derogation expired on December 31, 2004, we expect to complete the conversion of this plant by 2012, and meanwhile are meeting the required limits at the plant through operational means. The following tables show the level of SO2 and NOx emissions from our power plants included within our present limits in the period from 2001 to 2006, and the percent reductions in the level of these emissions compared to 2000. Reductions of SO2 emissions against 2000 levels Percentage Year Metric Tons Change (In thousands) 2001 213 (11 ) 2002 187 (21 ) 2003 101 (58 ) 2004 94 (61 ) 2005 73 (69 ) 2006 69 (71 ) 81 Table of Contents Reductions of NOx emissions against 2000 levels Percentage Year Metric Tons Change (In thousands) 2001 71 (8 ) 2002 71 (9 ) 2003 62 (20 ) 2004 56 (28 ) 2005 49 (37 ) 2006 43 (44 ) In 1997, the Italian parliament imposed a tax on total SO2 and NOx emissions from thermal plants that have a nominal capacity greater than 50 MW. These plants are the same plants as those regulated under the LCPD. In 2004, 2005, and 2006 our costs in connection with this tax were approximately €8 million, €7 million, and € 6 million, respectively. PCBs and Asbestos In May 1999, the Italian government adopted a legislative decree concerning the recovery and disposal of electric transformers and other equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. The decree, as later amended, provides that: • electric transformers and other equipment which contains PCBs above 500 parts per million must be decommissioned or decontaminated by 2009, and • transformers which contain PCBs below the limit set out above can be used until the end of its operational life. In December 2003, our Domestic Infrastructure and Network Division adopted a disposal plan to comply with this legislation. The phasing out of the equipment containing more than 500 ppm is expected by 2007 and the phasing out of the transformers containing less than 500 ppm by 2010. These targets are more stringent than those of the relevant legislation, which provides that equipment containing more than 500 ppm should be phased out by 2009 and that transformers containing less than 500 ppm could be used until the end of their operating life. We also deliver waste products containing asbestos to specialized companies authorized to treat and dispose of asbestos. Such waste products derive from the clean up of our plants we conduct in accordance with our general maintenance and environmental clean-up programs. Water Pollution Prevention We are subject to environmental laws and regulations limiting heat and other physical and chemical characteristics of cooling water and industrial water discharges from our thermal plants and hydroelectric plants. In May 1999, the Italian parliament adopted a new law for the prevention of the pollution of fresh and salt water, which was amended in August 2000. In the same year, the EU adopted a directive to prevent water pollution. We believe that the waste water treatment facilities already in operation at our generation plants are in line with the new requirements on waste water under EU law. In April 2006, Italy implemented the EU directive on water pollution through a legislative decree, which in addition took initial steps to reorganize Italy’s environmental regulations, in this field. We do not believe that this reorganization, which will be completed through additional decrees, will materially change the obligations to which we are subject with respect to water pollution. Solid Waste Management In February 1997, the Italian government issued a legislative decree implementing the EU directives on solid waste management. In accordance with this decree, we increased the level of recycling of our waste. In the last five years, our waste recovery rate has always exceeded 88%, and has been approximately 91% as a weighted average. 82 Table of Contents Site Clearance Italian legislation provides for ground and underground inspections to evaluate the possible contamination of sites, particularly in areas declared to be of national interest, using specific chemical, physical and historical analyses. If sites we own are found to be contaminated, the current regulation requires that we undertake a program of site clearance and remediation. In that case, under new legislation, the Italian government may provide financial support for remediation with respect to contaminated sites located in areas of national interest. Clearances need be preceded by site characterization plans. Initiatives concerning areas designated as being of “national interest” pursuant to applicable legislation include a number of our thermal power plants and are currently ongoing. Emergency measures were taken for groundwater safety and conservation near the power plants of Porto Marghera (Venice) and Fusina in an effort to settle a dispute with the government and judiciary authorities. These measures include construction of barriers to safeguard the canals of the lagoon from pollution. Our costs of compliance with these measures were €16 million in 2005 and €33 million in 2006. For 2007, we currently expect to spend approximately 23 million. Landscape Safeguards We have taken the following actions to reduce the environmental impact of our power distribution lines: • re-using routes of previous power lines wherever possible, • using towers for high voltage lines whose design is aimed at reducing the environmental and aesthetic impact in non-urban areas of particular landscape value, • acting to reduce the impact of lines in environmentally sensitive or protected areas, • increasing use of underground cables in urban areas where possible, • for medium-voltage lines, placing underground cables in urban areas and aerial cables with low environmental impact in other areas with specific environmental value, and • using aerial insulated cables or underground cables in low voltage networks (at present, we have built approximately two-thirds of our network in this way). We limit our use of underground high-voltage cables to urban areas because they are significantly more expensive than aerial cables and the process of installing and operating them may involve significant logistic and environmental problems. In 2003, our medium voltage aerial insulated cables and underground cables totaled 127,987 kilometer, which represented 38.3% of our medium voltage lines, compared to 35.9% in 2000, and our low voltage aerial insulated cables and underground cables totaled 600,675 kilometer, which represented 82.5% of our low voltage lines, compared to 80.6% in 2000. In 2005, due to further work on our network, the percentage of aerial insulated cables and underground cables rose to 40% and 83% for medium and low voltage lines, respectively. Further improvements occurred in 2006. Environmental Registrations, Certifications and Authorizations We have joined EMAS, a European Union initiative to implement a voluntary environmental management and registration system, which seeks to improve the level of environmental efficiency and disclosure of European industrial companies. Rules concerning EMAS are contained in an EU Regulation issued in 1993. Originally applicable only to individual sites, in 2001 the EU passed a new regulation which extended the scope of the EMAS system to groups of sites and non generation assets, such as distribution networks. In October 2004, Enel Distribuzione’s distribution network obtained ISO 14001 environmental certification. In 2006, this certification has been confirmed. As of December 2006, generating plants that accounted for approximately 80% of our net installed generating capacity had obtained ISO 14001 certification. One hundred and forty one plants that accounted for approximately 45% of our net installed capacity have also obtained EMAS registration. 83 Table of Contents EMAS registration has significant advantages in terms of the operation of our assets. In August 1999, the Italian government enacted a legislative decree implementing the 1996 EU directive on the prevention and reduction of pollution. This legislative decree requires all industrial plants to operate under a new integrated environmental license by 2007 and to make use of the best techniques available for the prevention and reduction of pollution. The new licenses set pollution limits and are reviewed every five years or at any time plants undergo significant renovation. This law, however, allows licenses for EMAS-registered and ISO 14001-certified plants to be reviewed every eight years and six (instead of five) in light of the stringent requirements that must be met to obtain EMAS an ISO 14001 qualifications. We have filed all applications necessary to obtain the prescribed environmental licenses by 2007. Cost of Compliance The costs of ensuring compliance with applicable environmental regulation generally consist of costs associated with equipping newly constructed facilities with required technology or modifying existing facilities to comply with applicable regulation and current expenditures to operate equipment needed to meet the environmental legislation. In 2006, our environmental capital expenditures in Italy were equal to approximately €119 million, representing 4% of our total capital expenditures. In 2004 and 2005, environmental capital expenditures in Italy were equal to approximately €112 and €100 million, representing 2.9% and 3.1% of our total capital expenditures, respectively. In 2006, current expenses were equal to approximately €560 million, of which we spent approximately €474 million on the purchase of ’clean’ fuels (low- and very low-sulphur oil and natural gas) in lieu of standard fuels, when required. These amounts do not include taxes on fuels, polluting emissions and geothermal generation and possible loss of revenues due to compliance with environmental standards that limit the operation of our plants. Discontinued Nuclear Operations Since November 2000, we have not owned any nuclear power plants. We have not produced electricity from nuclear power plants in Italy since 1988. For information on the nuclear power plants we now control in Slovakia and our nuclear related initiatives in France, please see “— Nuclear Liability” below. Following a national referendum in 1987 in which the Italian electorate expressed its opposition to the use of nuclear power, the Italian government ordered the interruption of power production from nuclear fuels and we ceased operations at our four nuclear plants in Italy, which had an aggregate net installed capacity of 1,500 MW. In addition to our nuclear power plants, we owned a 33% stake in NERSA, an electricity generation company that operated a nuclear power plant located in France. French and German utilities owned the balance of NERSA. In July 1998, we sold our stake in NERSA. We, however, retained ownership and responsibility for the decommissioning of our share of the nuclear fuel in the plant. Pursuant to the Bersani Decree, we transferred our discontinued nuclear operations to So.g.i.n., then one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. The principal activity of So.g.i.n. will be the decommissioning of the nuclear plants and of our share of the nuclear fuel in the NERSA plant in France, including disposal of nuclear fuel and nuclear waste. Under the Bersani Decree, we were required to transfer to the MEF all the shares of So.g.i.n. at no cost. The transfer was completed on November 3, 2000. Nuclear Liability Italy is a party to the 1960 Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy and the 1963 Brussels Supplementary Convention. Italian law implementing the conventions imposes strict liability for claims relating to nuclear plants and the transportation and storage of nuclear matter. Strict liability under Italian law means that someone does not need to be negligent in order to be found liable. The law imposes strict liability for nuclear accidents only on the entity that is the operator of the plant at the time of the accident. Consequently, we are not liable for any accident that may occur after the transfer to the MEF of So.g.i.n.’s shares on November 3, 2000, 84 Table of Contents even if the cause of the accident predates the transfer. Although we are not aware of any accident that predates the transfer, we will remain liable for any accident that occurred before the transfer, even if the damage, or the accident itself, is discovered in the future. The operator of the plant may claim reimbursement from a third party which has contributed to the cause of the accident for any sums it may have to pay but only if that party has accepted liability contractually or is a physical person who has intentionally caused the damage. Italian law implementing the conventions imposes a maximum period of ten years from the date of the accident in which someone claiming damages must bring claims. At the time of our transfer of So.g.i.n.’s shares, we represented to the Treasury that we had performed, on a regular basis, every required test on our nuclear plants and that we were not aware, with respect to all nuclear assets owned by So.g.i.n., of any event which might be the source of civil liability for nuclear operations. Under Italian law and in accordance with the Paris Convention, direct liability arising from nuclear liability claims is limited to five million International Monetary Fund Special Drawing Rights (“SDRs”) per accident. Under Italian law, to the extent any claim exceeds five million SDRs, someone claiming damages may sue us for only five million SDRs and must sue the Italian government for the excess liability up to 175 million SDRs. If the claim is in excess of 175 million SDRs, that person must sue the signatories to the conventions, but then only for the excess liability up to 300 million SDRs. However, the Italian government can claim reimbursement from us for any sums it may have to pay because of a nuclear accident arising from negligence on our part. On June 7, 2007, the value of five million SDRs equaled approximately € 6.7 million. A provision of the Italian law implementing the conventions states that when damage has been caused concurrently by a nuclear accident and the emission of ionizing radiation, the liability of the person that caused this radiation is not subject to the limitations described above for damages caused by that emission. This provision does not fully conform to the conventions because it does not specify that the ionizing radiation must not independently qualify as a nuclear accident in order to give rise to unlimited liability. We believe, however, that the correct interpretation of Italian law implementing the conventions is that only radiation not classified as a nuclear accident gives rise to liability outside the limitations described above. We believe all emissions of radiation originating from within nuclear plants would qualify as nuclear accidents. As a consequence, because we held nuclear material inside our plants, we believe that we could only be liable for amounts beyond the limitations described above under remote circumstances. In April 2006, we finalized the acquisition of 66% of Slovenské elektrárne, the major generating company in Slovakia, which owns nuclear power plants. Slovakia is a party to the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damages, under which operators of nuclear installations are subject to strict liability of at least the first $5 million of claims arising from an incident, which may be claimed for a period of ten years from the date of the nuclear incident, except when national legislation provides for different limits or longer periods. Slovakian law provides for a €75 million maximum liability for the operation of nuclear power plants (€50 million for the transportation of nuclear materials) and a 20-year limit from the date of the nuclear incident for the right to compensation. The legal limits for nuclear liability coverage apply per each nuclear accident and per each nuclear facility or nuclear transport. According to the law, if one person is a holder of a nuclear license for several nuclear facilities located on the territory for which a single internal emergency plan has been approved, such nuclear facilities are considered a single nuclear facility for the purpose of legal nuclear liability. But, if several nuclear facilities are located in the same territory and operated by different holders of nuclear license, such nuclear facilities are not considered a single nuclear facility for the purpose of legal nuclear liability even if their operations are technically linked. The two nuclear power plants owned by Slovenské elektrárne are separate licensed facilities. We have purchased insurance coverage for claims up to ten years through the insurance market and are seeking coverage in the form of a financial guarantee for claims arising after ten years, since insurance products for a period exceeding 10 years are not available. On May 30, 2005, we entered into a non-binding memorandum of understanding with EDF regarding an industrial partnership that would permit us to invest in the French electricity market, including in EDF’s latest generation European Pressurized Water Reactor, or “EPR,” nuclear power plant project. Under the memorandum of understanding, EDF will be the operator of the power plant, and will bear any related nuclear civil liability. For additional information, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Domestic Generation and Energy Management — International Generation.” 85 Table of Contents Property, Plants and Equipment At December 31, 2006, we had 782 generating plants, consisting of thermal, hydroelectric, geothermal and other renewable resources facilities, 597 of which were located in Italy. For further information with respect to our plants, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Domestic Generation and Energy Management.” We own the principal electricity distribution network in Italy, which consisted, at December 31, 2006, of a total of 1,096,300 kilometer of lines, mostly medium and low voltage, and 415,934 primary and secondary transformer substations. For a description of such properties and related construction, expansion and improvement plans, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Capital Investment Program — Distribution of Electricity.” At December 31, 2006, we owned real estate, mainly in Italy, with an approximate net book value of €651 million, consisting mainly of office buildings and other commercial properties and to a lesser extent residential real estate. For a description of our real estate properties and activities, please see “— Business — The Enel Group — Services and Other Activities — Real Estate and Other Services.” Management believes that our significant properties are in good condition and that they are adequate to meet our needs. ITEM 4A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Summary of Results As required by European Regulation No. 1606 dated July 2002, we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS-EU. Standards introduced prior to the renaming of IAS as IFRS are still referred to as IAS; we refer to the combined body of IAS and IFRS standards as IFRS. In 2006, our consolidated operating revenues increased by €4,726 million, or 14.0%, from €33,787 million in 2005 to €38,513 million in 2006. Our operating expenses, excluding depreciation, amortization and impairment, increased by €3,566 million, or 13.6%, from €26,314 million in 2005 to €29,880 million in 2006. Our net income changes from commodity risk management decreased by €886 million from income of €272 million in 2005 to a charge of €614 million in 2006. Our operating income increased by €281 million, or 5.1%, from €5,538 million in 2005 to €5,819 million in 2006. Our net financial expense decreased by €67 million, or 9.4%, from €714 million in 2005 to €647 million in 2006. Our expense from investments accounted for using the equity method decreased by €26 million, or 86.7%, from €30 million in 2005 to €4 million in 2006. As a result, our income from continuing operations increased by €241 million, or 8.4%, from €2,860 million in 2005 to €3,101 million in 2006, while our net income including discontinued operations, decreased by €1,031 million, or 25.0%, from €4,132 million in 2005 to €3,101 million in 2006. The decrease reflected the fact that in 2005 we recorded income from discontinued operations of €1,272 million and in 2006 we recorded no such income. Our principal measure of liquidity is net financial indebtedness, which was €11,690 million at December 31, 2006, as compared to €12,312 million at December 31, 2005. Net financial indebtedness is a non-GAAP measure; cash at banks and marketable securities, the most directly comparable IFRS-EU measure, was €572 million at December 31, 2006, as compared to €508 million at December 31, 2005. Please see “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — Capital Resources” for a reconciliation of net financial indebtedness to cash at banks and marketable securities. As of December 31, 2006, we had 58,548 employees, as compared to 51,778 as of December 2005, with the 13.1% increase being primarily attributable to the changes in our scope of consolidation, as a result, primarily, of our acquisitions in Eastern Europe. 86 Table of Contents The Electricity Market Regulatory Framework Overview Our financial results have been and will be affected to a large extent by the developments in the regulatory framework for the Italian electricity market, which was first opened to competition by the Bersani Decree in 1999 and has been subsequently further liberalized by EU and national legislation. The Bersani Decree also provided for the first time that certain customers, also known as Eligible Customers, could freely choose their supplier and buy electricity on the free market at negotiated prices. This freedom was progressively extended, from customers with high consumption thresholds, to all non-residential customers as of July 1, 2004. In 2007, all customers will become Eligible Customers. Currently, Non-Eligible Customers must purchase electricity from their local distribution company. The price of electricity for Non-Eligible Customers is set by the Energy Authority. On April 1, 2004, the Italian power exchange, a virtual marketplace for the trading of electricity, started operations. The Single Buyer, a state-owned entity entrusted with the responsibility of purchasing all of the electricity to be supplied to the regulated market, also started operations on that date. Please see “— Comparability of Information — Regulatory and Other Developments” for a description of the impact of the start of operation of the Italian power exchange and the Single Buyer on our results in 2004. Since the start of the liberalization of the market, the Energy Authority, the Antitrust Authority and the European Commission have adopted several measures to further competition and constantly monitor the market in order to reduce the risk of abuses of market power. Furthermore, under the Bersani Decree, no single company or group could have more than a 50% market share of the electricity generation and import market after January 1, 2003, a limit which resulted in our sale of the Gencos. In light of Italian laws and regulations providing for the reunification of the ownership and management of the Italian transmission grid and imposing certain ownership restrictions on the entity that owns and manages it, we disposed of most of our interest in Terna during 2005, and now hold only 5.12% of Terna’s share capital. You should read “