Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. If any of such events should occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. Financial Risks Affecting Our Business We have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by general economic conditions The disruption experienced in U.S. and global credit markets during second half of 2008 and subsequent global economic downturn resulted in decreased demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in a sharp drop in energy prices, and affected the availability and cost of capital and, in turn, had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From an operating standpoint, the crisis resulted in a steep decline in the price we received for oil and natural gas and reduced revenues and profitability. Our reduced profitability arising from the global economic disruption was a principal factor, along with the effects of hurricanes, in the alleged non-compliance with various financial covenants in our existing debt facilities and our 2009 filing for protection under the Chapter 11. While the U.S. and global economies have experienced a slow recovery from the deep recessionary conditions that pr evailed in late 2008 and much of 2009 and commodity prices have recovered a portion of the decline experienced over that period, uncertainty that continues to exist with respect to the pace and sustainability of the economic recovery continues to be a risk to oil and natural gas operators and other businesses. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. Should the U.S. and global economies experience further weakness, demand for energy and accompanying commodity prices may decline and our financial position may deteriorate along with our ability to operate profitably and our ability to obtain financing to support operations and the cost and terms of same, is unclear. We have incurred significant net losses since the acquisition of our principal properties and may incur additional significant net losses in the future. We have not been profitable since our acquisition of the Harvest Companies in July 2008. We incurred net losses of $19.4 million and $27.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since the Harvest Acquisition in 2008, our efforts to achieve profitability have focused on growing our production and reducing lease operating expenses. As a result of the steep decline in commodity prices accompanying the global recession beginning in late 2008, we suffered reductions in revenues and values of reserves and declines in profitability which, in turn, led to our inability to access our revolving credit facility and ultimate filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. While we successfully exited bankruptcy in May 2010 and commodity prices have strengthened significantly from late-2008 and earlier-2009 levels, our efforts to increase production through planned development operations was curtailed during our bankruptcy as a result of our inability to access our revolving credit facility and administrative burdens associated with operation in bankruptcy and, since exit from bankruptcy, our development operations continue to be conducted on a curtailed basis as a result of our inability to draw additional funds under our credit facility. The uncertainties described in this “Item 1A – Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K may impede our ability to ultimately find, develop and exploit natural gas and oil reserves and attain profitability. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could materially adversely affect our ability to fully implement and continue our exploration and development program, service our indebtedness and raise additional capital. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to find and develop reserves. At December 31, 2010, our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and term loan totaled $131.2 million (includes unamortized discount of $4.1 million), all of which matures in April 2012. Our leverage and the current and future restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations and restrictions could have important consequences. For example, they could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • have a material adverse effect if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in any of our debt agreements, including an event of default if such event is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of future cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those who have proportionately less debt. 20 Our credit facilities include certain financial covenants that require, among other things, that we satisfy certain interest coverage and asset to liability ratios, production levels and other financial performance metrics. If we breach a financial covenant and we are unable to cure such violation or obtain waivers from our lenders under our credit facilities within the applicable cure periods, such violation will constitute an event of default under the credit facilities, and our lenders could accelerate the due dates for the payments of all outstanding indebtedness and exercise their remedies as a secured creditor with respect to the collateral securing the credit facilities, which is substantially all of our natural gas and oil properties. In the event of any such events of default, and on or before the amounts owing under our credit facilities mature in April 2012, we expect that we will be required to seek altern ative financing in order to retire amounts owing under our existing credit facilities. If we are unable to cure any such defaults or repay amounts owing under our credit facilities when they come due, either through operating cash flow or alternative financing, we may be required to liquidate some or all of our properties to satisfy our indebtedness. Our credit facilities also include certain prohibitions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness without the consent of our lenders. Unless waived by our lenders, such prohibitions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness limit our development program to initiatives funded through operating cash flow. Such restrictions have resulted in curtailment of our development plans since early 2009 and continue to limit development of our properties. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations due to events beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance. Our future performance will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, legislative, operating and other business factors, many of which we cannot control, such as general economic and financial conditions in our industry or the economy at large. Those factors, particularly the sharp decline in the global economy and the accompanying drop in oil and natural gas prices, resulted in certain alleged covenant defaults under our credit facilities and the eventual action on our part, during 2009, to seek protection under Chapter 11. We remain subject to the same risks as led to our prior alleged covenant defaults and bankruptcy. A significant reduction in operating cash flow resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition, or other events could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or further refinancing our indebtedness or seeking equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebte dness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We expect to have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. Pursuant to our business plan, we expect to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas properties. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We presently finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations and cash on hand and, since early 2009, the lack of credit availability under our revolving credit facility has resulted in curtailment of our development program. In order to fully resume our development program at levels deemed optimal by management, or if our capital requirements vary materially from those reflected in our projections, we may require additional financing. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. Without additional capital resources, we will be forced to limit or defer our planned natural gas and oil exploration and development program to those activities that can be funded from our cash flow and cash on hand which may, in turn, adversely affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our natural gas and oil properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may lack capital to complete potential acquisitions or to capitalize on other business opportunities. 21 If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize the anticipated cash flows from our acquisitions. If we fail to manage the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently anticipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. In early 2010, the administrative agent under our credit facilities unwound our existing hedges and, since that time, we have operated without hedges in place and bear the full risk of commodity price fluctuations. Under the terms of our amended credit facilities currently in place, without consent of our lender, we are limited to hedging not more than 60% of production. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price ri sk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated, causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. Derivatives regulation included in recently adopted financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices. The United States Congress recently adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which contains comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as our company, that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation contains signifi cant derivatives regulation, including provisions requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges and containing a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as “margin”) for such transactions as well as certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities. The Act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. However, we do not know the definitions that the CFTC will actually promulgate nor how these definitions will apply to us. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we could be required to post collateral with our dealer counterparties for our commodities hedging transactions. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity, thereby reducing our ability to use cash for investment or other corporate purposes, or would require us to increase our level of debt), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which co uld adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. In addition, a requirement for our counterparties to post collateral would likely result in additional costs being passed on to us, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of our hedges and our profitability. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. 22 Oil and Gas Risks Affecting Our Business Drilling for natural gas and oil is a speculative activity and involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. We engage in exploration and development drilling activities. Any such activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons. In addition to a failure to find oil or natural gas, drilling efforts can be affected by adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Therefore, the successful drilling of a gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, could cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells could impede our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of inherent operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses due to costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would affect our financial results and impede growth. Our future revenues, profitability and cash flow will depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil and natural gas price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • level of global oil and natural gas exploration and productivity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; 23 • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our expected future revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we have periodically entered into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production and may enter into such transactions in the future. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices or that counterparties to hedging transactions will be able to meet their requirements in those hedging transactions. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our properties will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Any inaccuracies in these interpretati ons or assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in the reserve reports summarized herein. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Unless we replace crude oil and natural gas reserves our future reserves and production will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production will depend on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we are unable to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves has been curtailed since early 2009 as a result of our inability to access our revolving credit facility and the resulting requirement that we fund capital investments from cash flow and cash on hand. In the absence of additional external financing, our ability to make planned capital inv estments to maintain and expand our reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced due to natural declines in production, declines in commodity prices or otherwise. Even if we have sufficient financing to support our optimum development plan, we may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that could give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases may be acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willin g to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. 24 The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oil field services typically fluctuates based on demand for those services. While we have historically had excellent relationships with oil field service companies, there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The geographic concentration of our properties subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting the Louisiana Gulf Coast specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Louisiana Gulf Coast means that some or all of the properties could be affected should the region experience: • severe weather; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, the oil and gas properties that we acquired in July 2008 were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike, which required the prior owners of the properties, in the case of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and us, in the case of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, to spend a considerable amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there may be potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Because all or a number of the properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other producers who have properties over a wider geographic area. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets or delay production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In offshore operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms that we own or operate or that are owned and operated by others and, where facilities are owned and operated by others, the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity. Wh en that occurs, we will be unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and gas and realization of revenues. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. We acquired our principal properties in July 2008 and our business plan includes pursuit of additional acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties in the future. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a larger organization; • coordinating potentially geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; 25 • an increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, we face the risk of identifying, competing for and pursuing other acquisitions, which takes time and expense and diverts management’s attention from other activities. The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we will review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contaminati on, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. We may not be the operator on all of our future properties and therefore may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we may not serve as operator of all planned wells. We currently operate substantially all of our properties. However, it is possible that we will not serve as operator of all of the properties we may acquire in the future. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. 26 Our insurance may not protect us against all business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance policies are economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if possible. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe is appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks, including high-cost business interruption insurance and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita. As a result, insurance costs for many operators in the Gulf Coast region have increased significantly from the costs that similarly situated participants in this industry have historically incurred and insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005, insurance underwriters may no longer insure assets in the Gulf Coast region against weather-related damage. If an accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations — including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pol lution or environmental damage — occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the United States and in the Gulf Coast region are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Companies operating in coastal waters are subject to laws and regulations addressing, among others, land use and lease permit restrictions, bonding and other financial assurance related to drilling and production activities, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental and safety matters, plugging and abandonment of wells and associated infrastructure after production has ceased, operational reporting and taxation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can subject us to governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injuries and property and natural resources damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations, and fu ture laws or regulations, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could increase such compliance costs. Regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; • incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. 27 Under certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate our contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many co untries as well as several states and regions of the U.S. have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning of natural gas and oil, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for some of our services or products in the future. See “Business — Regulatory Matters.” Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and natural gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and natural gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. This process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas agencies and has not been subject to federal regulation. However, due to concerns that hydraulic fracturing may adversely affect drinking water supplies, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has commenced its own investigation into hydraulic fracturing practices. Additionally, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing processes to regulation und er that Act and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. If enacted, such a provision could require hydraulic fracturing activities to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. In unrelated oil spill legislation being considered by the U.S. Senate in the aftermath of the April 2010 Macondo well release in the Gulf of Mexico, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has added a requirement that natural gas drillers disclose the chemicals they pump into the ground as part of the hydraulic fracturing process. Disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could make it easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Adoption of legislation or of any implementing regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on our exploration and production activities, which could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, resulting in reduced amounts of oil and natural gas being produced, as well as increase our costs of compliance and doing business. The catastrophic explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico will likely result in new governmental regulations relating to drilling, exploration and production activities in U.S. coastal waters, which could adversely affect our operations. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon, an offshore drilling rig located in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, sank following a catastrophic explosion and fire, which significantly and adversely disrupted oil and gas exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico. The duration of this disruption is currently unknown. The President appointed a commission to study the causes of the catastrophe for the purpose of recommending to the President what legislative or regulatory measures should be taken in order to minimize the possibility of a reoccurrence of a disastrous oil spill. Pending the completion of that report, the United States government imposed a suspension of all deepwater drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico through November 30, 2010, which moratorium has since been lifted. Various bills are being considered by Congress which, if enacted, could either significantly increase the costs of conducting drilling and exploration ac tivities in the Gulf of Mexico, particularly in deepwater, or substantially curtail Gulf of Mexico drilling and operation activity. Our operations are focused in the shallow waters of the Gulf Coast region. We do not operate in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. However, although our exploration activity in the shallow waters was not disrupted by the Deepwater Horizon incident, enhanced scrutiny of operations in shallow waters has resulted and new safety and permitting requirements are under consideration. There are a number of uncertainties affecting the oil and gas industry in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon events, including the possible increase or elimination of the current $75 million cap for non-reclamation liabilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the continued availability and affordability of insurance for drilling and exploration activities, the overall legislative and regulatory response to the catastrophe, and the ability to obtain drilling permits in the shallow water on a timely basis. Although the eventual outcome of these developments is currently unknown, additional regulatory and operational costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 28 We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect future operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key operations personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our exploitation strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated or the decommissioning be accelerated, such costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 