ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvestors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause the Company’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and the Company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s businesses or financial performance.11Corporate RisksVectren is a holding company, and its assets consist primarily of investments in its subsidiaries.Dividends on Vectren’s common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and cash flow of its subsidiaries, principally Utility Holdings and Enterprises, and the distribution or other payment of earnings from those entities to Vectren. Should the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, or cash flow of, or legal requirements applicable to them restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company, its ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited and its stock price could be adversely affected. Vectren’s results of operations, future growth, and earnings and dividend goals also will depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. Additionally, certain of the Company’s lending arrangements contain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a total debt to total capitalization ratio.Deterioration in general economic conditions may have adverse impacts. Economic conditions may have some negative impact on both gas and electric large customers and wholesale power sales. This impact may include volatility and unpredictability in the demand for natural gas and electricity, tempered growth strategies, significant conservation measures, and perhaps plant closures, production cutbacks, or bankruptcies. Economic conditions may also cause reductions in residential and commercial customer counts and lower revenues. It is also possible that an uncertain economy could affect costs including pension costs, interest costs, and uncollectible accounts expense. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for products and services offered by nonutility operations and therefore lower revenues for those products and services. The economic conditions may have some negative impact on spending for utility and pipeline construction projects, demand for natural gas, electricity, and coal, and spending on performance contracting and renewable energy expansion. It is also possible that unfavorable conditions could lead to reductions in the value of certain nonutility real estate and other legacy investments.Financial market volatility could have adverse impacts. The capital and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption. If market disruption and volatility occurs, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience adverse effects, which may be material. These effects may include, but are not limited to, difficulties in accessing the short and long-term debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, increased borrowing costs associated with current short-term debt obligations, higher interest rates in future financings, and a smaller potential pool of investors and funding sources. Finally, there is no assurance the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable.A downgrade (or negative outlook) in or withdrawal of Vectren’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital and its cost.The following table shows the current ratings assigned to the Company and its rated subsidiaries by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s: Current Rating Standard Moody’s& Poor’sVectren Corporation's corporate credit ratingnot ratedA-Utility Holdings and Indiana Gas senior unsecured debtA2A-Utility Holdings commercial paper programP-1A-2SIGECO’s senior secured debtAa3AThe current outlook for both Moody's and Standard and Poor’s is stable. The above table also reflects Moody's January 30, 2014 upgrades to each of the credit ratings shown. Both rating agencies categorize the ratings of the above securities as investment grade. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s lowest level investment grade rating is BBB- and Baa3, respectively.12If the rating agencies downgrade the Company’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, or initiate negative outlooks thereon, or withdraw the Company's ratings or, in each case, the ratings of its subsidiaries, it may significantly limit the Company's access to the debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, and the Company’s borrowing costs would increase. In addition, the Company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Finally, there is no assurance that the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable.Utility Operating RisksVectren’s gas and electric utility sales are concentrated in the Midwest.The operations of the Company’s regulated utilities are concentrated in central and southern Indiana and west central Ohio and are therefore impacted by changes in the Midwest economy in general and changes in particular industries concentrated in the Midwest. These industries include automotive assembly, parts and accessories; feed, flour and grain processing; metal castings, aluminum products, polycarbonate resin (Lexan®) and plastic products; gypsum products; electrical equipment, metal specialties, glass and steel finishing; aluminum smelting and recycling; pharmaceutical and nutritional products; gasoline and oil products; ethanol; and coal mining.Vectren’s regulated utilities operate in an increasingly competitive industry, which may affect its future earnings.The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressure faced by electric and gas utility companies. Increased competition, including those from cogeneration, solar, and other renewables opportunities for customers, may create greater risks to the stability of Vectren’s earnings generally and may in the future reduce its earnings from retail electric and gas sales. In this regard, the deployment and commercialization of disruptive technologies, such as renewable energy sources and cogeneration facilities, have the potential to change the nature of the utility industry and reduce demand for Vectren’s electric and gas products and services. If the Company is not able to appropriately adapt to structural changes in the utility industry as a result of the development of disruptive technologies, this may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, several states, including Ohio, have passed legislation that allows customers to choose their electricity supplier in a competitive market. Indiana has not enacted such legislation but has recently begun to explore electric choice options. Ohio regulation also provides for choice of commodity providers for all gas customers. The Company implemented this choice for its gas customers in Ohio and is currently in the second of the three phase process to exit the merchant function in its Ohio service territory. The state of Indiana has not adopted any regulation requiring gas choice in the Company’s Indiana service territories; however, the Company operates under approved tariffs permitting certain industrial and commercial large volume customers to choose their commodity supplier. Vectren cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.A significant portion of Vectren’s electric utility sales are space heating and cooling. Accordingly, its operating results may fluctuate with variability of weather.Vectren’s electric utility sales are sensitive to variations in weather conditions. The Company forecasts utility sales on the basis of normal weather. Since Vectren does not have a weather-normalization mechanism for its electric operations, significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on its earnings. However, the impact of weather on the gas operations in the Company’s Indiana territories has been significantly mitigated through the implementation of a normal temperature adjustment mechanism. Additionally, the implementation of a straight fixed variable rate design mitigates most weather variations related to Ohio residential gas sales.Vectren’s utilities are exposed to increasing regulation, including pipeline safety, environmental, and cybersecurity regulation.Vectren's utilities are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local regulatory authorities and are exposed to public policy decisions that may negatively impact the Company's earnings. In particular, Vectren is subject to regulation by the FERC, the 13NERC, the EPA, the IURC, the PUCO, the DOT, Department of Energy (DOE), and Department of Homeland Security (DHS). These authorities regulate many aspects of its generation, transmission and distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, and safety. In addition, the IURC, PUCO, and FERC approve its utility-related debt and equity issuances, regulate the rates that Vectren's utilities can charge customers, the rate of return that Vectren's utilities are authorized to earn, and their ability to timely recover gas and fuel costs and investments in infrastructure. Further, there are consumer advocates and other parties that may intervene in regulatory proceedings and affect regulatory outcomes.Trends Toward Stricter StandardsWith the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated that are subject to regulation, the Company's investment in infrastructure, and the associated operating costs have increased and are expected to increase in the future. As examples of the trend toward stricter regulation, the EPA is currently considering revisions to regulations involving fly ash disposal, cooling tower intake facilities, waste water discharges, and greenhouse gases and continues to implement increasingly more stringent air quality standards. Pipeline Safety ConsiderationsVectren monitors and maintains its natural gas distribution system to ensure that natural gas is delivered in a safe, efficient, and reliable manner. Vectren's natural gas utilities are currently engaged in replacement programs in both Indiana and Ohio, the primary purpose of which is preventive maintenance and continual renewal and improvement. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 (Pipeline Safety Law) was signed into law on January 3, 2012 and Vectren continues to study the impact of the Pipeline Safety Law and potential new regulations associated with its implementation. While certain of the compliance costs remain uncertain, the Pipeline Safety Law is expected to result in further investment in pipeline inspections, and where necessary, additional investments in pipeline infrastructure; and therefore, result in both increased levels of operating expenses and capital expenditures associated with the Company's natural gas distribution businesses as evidenced by recent regulatory filings in Indiana and Ohio by Vectren North, Vectren South, and Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio.Environmental ConsiderationsVectren's utility operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. These environmental regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities, and obligations in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances and limit airborne emissions from electric generating facilities, including particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), and mercury, among others. Environmental legislation/regulation also requires that facilities, sites, and other properties associated with Vectren's operations be operated, maintained, abandoned, and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. The Company's current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to its results of operations and financial condition. Climate Change and Renewable Energy ConsiderationsWhile there have been a series of legislative proposals to address global climate change that would regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases and other proposals that would mandate an investment in renewable energy sources, none have been finalized to date. The US Supreme Court has determined that the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gases as a pollutant under the Clean Air Act. Any future legislative or regulatory actions taken by the EPA or other agencies to address global climate change or mandate renewable energy sources could substantially affect both the costs and operating characteristics of the Company's fossil fuel generating plants and natural gas distribution businesses. Further, such legislation or regulatory action would likely impact the Company's generation resource planning decisions. The Company has gathered preliminary estimates of the costs to control greenhouse gas emissions. A preliminary investigation demonstrated costs to comply would be significant, first with regard to operating expenses and later for capital expenditures as technology becomes available to control greenhouse gas emissions. However, these compliance cost estimates are based on highly uncertain assumptions, including allowance prices if a cap and trade approach were employed, and energy efficiency targets. At this time and in the absence of final legislation or regulatory mandates, compliance costs and other effects associated with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or obtaining renewable energy sources remain uncertain. 14Evolving Cybersecurity Standards and ConsiderationsThe frequency, size and variety of cybersecurity threats against critical infrastructure companies continues to grow, as do the evolving frameworks, standards and regulations intended to keep pace with and address these threats. In 2013, there was a marked increase in interest from both State and Federal regulatory agencies related to cybersecurity in general, and specifically in critical infrastructure sectors, including electric and natural gas. Vectren has a dedicated cybersecurity team and maintains vigilance with regard to the assessment of cybersecurity risks, the measures employed to protect information technology assets, critical infrastructure, the Company and its customers from these threats. Cybersecurity threats, however, constantly evolve in attempts to identify and capitalize on any weakness or unprotected areas. If these measures were to fail or if a breach were to occur, it could result in impairment or loss of critical functions, operating reliability, customer or other confidential information. The ultimate effects of which are difficult to quantify with any certainty. Increasing regulation and infrastructure replacement programs could affect Vectren's utility rates charged to customers, its costs, and its profitability.Any additional expenses or capital incurred by Vectren's utilities, as it relates to complying with increasing regulation and other infrastructure replacement activities are expected to be borne by the customers in its service territories through increased rates. Increased rates have an impact on the economic health of the communities served. New regulations could also negatively impact industries in the Company's service territory, including industries in which the Company operates.Vectren's utilities' ability to obtain rate increases and to maintain current authorized rates of return depends in part upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that Vectren will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or earn currently authorized rates of return. Both Indiana and Ohio have passed laws allowing utilities to recover at least some of the cost of complying with federal mandates or other infrastructure replacement expenditures, and in Ohio other capital investments, outside of a base rate proceeding. However, these activities may have at least a short-term adverse impact on the Company's cash flow and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with new or existing laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures and may not be recoverable from customers and could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Vectren's regulated energy delivery operations are subject to various risks.A variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, are inherent in the Company’s gas and electric distribution activities. If such events occur, they could cause substantial financial losses and result in injury to or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of operations. The location of pipelines, storage facilities, and the electric grid near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject the Company to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.Vectren’s regulated power supply operations are subject to various risks.The Company’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Such operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; and natural disasters.15The Company participates in the MISO.The Company is a member of the MISO, which serves the electric transmission needs of much of Midcontinent region and maintains operational control over SIGECO’s electric transmission facilities, as well as that of other utilities in the region. As a result of such control, SIGECO’s continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. The need to expend capital for improvements to the regional transmission system, both to SIGECO’s facilities as well as to those facilities of adjacent utilities, over the next several years is expected to be significant. The Company timely recovers its investment in certain new electric transmission projects that benefit the MISO infrastructure at a FERC approved rate of return, which is currently under review based on a joint complaint filed under Section 206 against MISO and various MISO transmission owners, including SIGECO. The FERC has yet to rule on the case and the Company is currently unable to predict the outcome of the proceeding.Also, the MISO allocates operating costs and the cost of multi-value projects throughout the region to its participating utilities such as SIGECO, and such costs are significant. Adjustments to these operating costs, including adjustments that result from participants entering or leaving the MISO, could cause increases or decreases to customer bills. The Company timely recovers its portion of MISO operating expenses as tracked costs.Wholesale power marketing activities may add volatility to earnings.Vectren’s regulated electric utility engages in wholesale power marketing activities that primarily involve the offering of utility-owned or contracted generation into the MISO hourly and real time markets. As part of these strategies, the Company may also execute energy contracts that are integrated with portfolio requirements around power supply and delivery. Presently, margin earned from these activities above or below $7.5 million per year is shared evenly with customers. These earnings from wholesale marketing activities may vary based on fluctuating prices for electricity and the amount of electric generating capacity or purchased power available beyond that needed to meet firm service requirements. In addition, this earnings sharing approach may be modified in future regulatory proceedings.Volatility in the wholesale price of natural gas, coal, and electricity could reduce earnings and working capital.The Company’s regulated operations have limited exposure to commodity price risk for transactions involving purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and purchased power for the benefit of retail customers due to current state regulations, which subject to compliance with those regulations, allow for recovery of the cost of such purchases through natural gas and fuel cost adjustment mechanisms. However, significant volatility in the price of natural gas, coal, or purchased power may cause existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy as well as cause new home developers, builders, and new customers to select alternative sources of energy. Decreases in volumes sold could reduce earnings. The decrease would be more significant in the absence of constructive regulatory orders, such as those authorizing revenue decoupling, lost margin recovery, and other innovative rate designs. A decline in new customers could impede growth in future earnings. In addition, during periods when commodity prices are higher than historical levels, working capital costs could increase due to higher carrying costs of inventories and cost recovery mechanisms, and customers may have trouble paying higher bills leading to increased bad debt expenses.Increased conservation efforts and technology advances, which result in improved energy efficiency or the development of alternative energy sources, may result in reduced demand for the Company’s energy products and services.The trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may reduce the demand for energy products. Prices for natural gas are subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. During periods of high energy commodity costs, the Company's prices generally increase which may lead to customer conservation. State and/or federal regulation may require mandatory conservation measures, which would reduce the demand for energy products. In addition, the Company's customers, especially large commercial and industrial customers, may choose to employ various technological advances to develop alternative energy sources, such as the construction and development of wind power, solar 16technology, or electric cogeneration facilities. Increased conservation efforts and the utilization of technological advances to increase energy efficiency or to develop alternate energy sources could lead to a reduction in demand for the Company’s energy products and services, which could have an adverse effect on its revenues and overall results of operations. Nonutility Operating RisksThe performance of Vectren’s nonutility businesses is subject to certain risks.Execution of the Company’s nonutility business strategies and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities in the nonutility business area are subject to a number of risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the effects of weather; failure of installed performance contracting products to operate as planned; failure to properly estimate the cost to construct projects; failure to develop or obtain mining property; potential legislation or regulations that may limit CO2 and other greenhouse gases emissions; operating accidents that may require environmental remediation; failure to properly construct pipeline infrastructure; creditworthiness of customers and joint venture partners; changes in federal, state or local legal and regulatory requirements, such as changes in tax laws or rates; environmental or cybersecurity regulations, and changing market conditions.Vectren’s nonutility businesses support its regulated utilities pursuant to service contracts by providing coal and infrastructure services. In most instances, Vectren’s ability to maintain these service contracts depends upon regulatory discretion and negotiation with interveners, and there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain future service contracts, or that existing arrangements will not be revisited.Nonutility infrastructure services operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors.Infrastructure Services results are dependent on a number of factors. The industry is competitive and many of the contracts are subject to a bidding process. Should Infrastructure Services be unsuccessful in bidding contracts, results of operations could be impacted. Infrastructure Services enters into a variety of contracts, some of which are fixed price. Through competitive bidding, the volume of contracted work could vary significantly from year to year. Further, to the extent there are unanticipated cost increases in completion of the contracted work, the profit margin realized on any single project could be reduced. Additionally, Infrastructure Services contributes to several multi-employer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees covered by those agreements. A significant increase to the funding requirements could adversely impact financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows. Changes in legislation and regulations impacting the industries in which the customers served by Infrastructure Services operate could impact operating results. Other risks include, but are not limited to: the effects of weather; failure to properly estimate the cost to construct projects; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees; cancellation of projects by customers and/or reductions in the scope of the projects; credit worthiness of customers; ability to obtain materials and equipment required to perform services from suppliers and manufacturers; and changing market conditions. Nonutility coal mining operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors.The success of coal mining operations is predicated on the ability to fully access coal at company-owned mines; for the contract operator to operate owned mines in accordance with MSHA guidelines and regulations, recent interpretations of those guidelines and regulations, and any new guidelines or regulations that could be implemented and to respond to more frequent and broader inspections, including increased levels of citations which may result in coal mining operations being classified as having a Pattern of Violation (POV) and resulting in a significant decrease in productivity and increased costs; to negotiate and execute new sales contracts; to adapt to any new laws or rules, such as climate change or air quality legislation, that impact users of coal; and to manage production and production costs and other risks in response to changes in demand. Other risks, which could adversely impact operating results, include but are not limited to: market demand for the Company's coal including impacts of fuel switching to alternative sources and coal specifications in terms of sulfur and mercury, among others; geologic, equipment, and operational risks; supplier and contract miner performance; the availability of miners, key equipment and commodities; availability of transportation; and the ability to access/replace coal reserves. Coal sales and production could be impacted by significant variations in weather and have a material impact on the Company’s earnings.17In addition, coal mining operations have exposure to coal commodity prices. If coal commodity prices change in a direction or manner that is not anticipated, or if the forecasted sales transactions do not occur, losses may result. Although forecasted sales are hedged with owned coal inventory and known reserves, all exposure to both short and long-term coal price volatility is not hedged. Therefore, fluctuating coal prices are likely to cause the Company’s net income to be volatile.The Company could be negatively impacted by declines in the market demand for coal.With respect to its Coal Mining operations, the Company competes with coal producers in the Illinois Basin and in other coal producing regions of the United States. The domestic demand for, and prices for, the Company's coal primarily depend on the coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry. Consumption by the domestic electric utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments, and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric power, and other renewable energy sources. The domestic electric utility industry currently accounts for approximately 90 percent of domestic coal consumption. Moreover, in 2012 the Energy Information Administration estimated that coal consumption in the electric power sector totaled 829 million tons, the lowest amount since 1992 primarily due to historically low natural gas prices paid by the electric generators that led to a significant increase in the share of natural gas-fired power generation. The economic stability of these markets has a significant effect on the demand for coal and the level of competition in supplying these markets. Consequently, a decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could negatively impact the Company's results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, during the last several years the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by coal producers or producers of alternate fuels could decrease the demand for or pricing of the Company's coal, which could adversely impact the Company's results of operations. Mining in the Illinois Basin is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas.The geological characteristics of the Illinois Basin coal reserves, such as elevated sulfur content, depth of overburden, and coal seam thickness, among other factors, makes such reserves complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. In addition, the composition of the Illinois Basin coal reserves compared to reserves from other regions of the United States or international sources may make such Illinois Basin coal less desirable as a fuel source. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the mining operations, cost structures, and the results of the operations of the Company's Coal Mining group. Other Corporate Operating RisksThe Company is exposed to physical and financial risks related to the uncertainty of climate change.A changing climate creates uncertainty and could result in broad changes to the Company’s service territories. These impacts could include, but are not limited to, population shifts; changes in the level of annual rainfall; changes in the weather; and changes to the frequency and severity of weather events such as thunderstorms, wind, tornadoes, and ice storms that can damage infrastructure. Such changes could impact the Company in a number of ways including the number and/or type of customers in the Company’s service territories; the demand for energy resulting in the need for additional investment in generation assets or the need to retire current infrastructure that is no longer required; an increase to the cost of providing service; and an increase in the likelihood of capital expenditures to replace damaged infrastructure.To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact the Company’s revenues, costs, and capital structure and thus the need for changes to rates charged to regulated customers. Rate changes themselves can impact the economic health of the communities served and may in turn adversely affect the Company’s operating results.18Increased derivative regulation could impact results.The Company uses commodity derivative instruments in conjunction with procurement activities. The Company may also periodically use interest rate derivative instruments to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations associated with anticipated debt issuances.Regulations related to the use of derivatives that became law in 2010 under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act continue to evolve and their ultimate application remains uncertain. Depending on the continued evolution of the regulations adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other agencies, the Company may be required to post additional collateral with dealer counterparties for commitments and interest rates, physical or financial commodity derivative transactions and report or otherwise disclose such activity to dealer counterparties or other agencies. The law provides for an exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users. Requirements to post collateral could limit cash for investment and for other corporate purposes or could increase debt levels and resulting interest expense. In addition, a requirement for counterparties to post collateral could result in additional costs associated with executing transactions, thereby decreasing profitability. An increased collateral requirement could also reduce the Company’s ability to execute derivative transactions to reduce commodity price and interest rate uncertainty and to protect cash flows. The regulations may also limit the pool of potential counterparties and/or the liquidity in the respective markets for such transactions.Significant rule-making by numerous governmental agencies, particularly the CFTC, continues to evolve and has been subject to a number of extensions and delays. The Company continues to evaluate the impacts as these rulemakings and interpretations become available and whether these rulemakings and interpretations affirm that exemptions apply to the Company’s use of derivative instruments.Vectren’s subsidiaries have performance and warranty obligations, some of which are guaranteed by Vectren.In the normal course of business, subsidiaries of Vectren issue performance bonds and other forms of assurance that commit them to timely install infrastructure, operate facilities, pay vendors or subcontractors, and/or support warranty obligations. Vectren Corporation, as the parent company, will from time to time guarantee its subsidiaries’ commitments. These guarantees do not represent incremental consolidated obligations; rather, they represent parental guarantees of subsidiary obligations in order to allow those subsidiaries the flexibility to conduct business without posting other forms of collateral. The Company has not been called upon to satisfy any obligations pursuant to these parental guarantees.Certain of Vectren's nonutility operations face a customer concentration risk. The loss of such a customer would result in a decline in revenue and could have an adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows.For the year ended December 31, 2013, revenues from one customer of Infrastructure Services individually accounted for approximately 9 percent of the Company's consolidated operating revenues. The total outstanding receivable from this customer at December 31, 2013 was approximately 16 percent of the Company's total receivables, including accrued unbilled revenues. While the Company believes that the loss of any one customer would not have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations, the loss of this customer or a significant decline in customer related revenue could have an adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows of Infrastructure Services.From time to time, Vectren is subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings.From time to time, the Company may be subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings, including matters involving compliance with state and federal laws, regulations or other matters. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Vectren’s business, prospects, corporate reputation, results of operations, or financial condition.19The investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could impact Vectren’s liquidity and results of operations.The costs associated with the Company sponsored retirement plans, including certain multi-employer plans at Infrastructure Services, are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets; discount rates; the level of interest rates used to measure funding levels; changes in actuarial assumptions; future government regulations; and Company contributions. In addition, the Company could be required to provide for significant funding of these defined benefit pension plans. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows for other purposes and could negatively affect results of operations.Catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, acts of war, and acts of God, may adversely affect Vectren’s facilities and operations and corporate reputation.Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, ice storms, tornados, terrorist acts, cyber-attacks or similar occurrences could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities, operations, corporate reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Either a direct act against company-owned generating facilities or transmission and distribution infrastructure or an act against the infrastructure of neighboring utilities or interstate pipelines that are used by the Company to transport power and natural gas could result in the Company being unable to deliver natural gas or electricity for a prolonged period. Further, Vectren relies on information technology networks and systems to operate its generating facilities, engage in asset management activities, and process, transmit and store electronic information. Security breaches of this information technology infrastructure could lead to system disruptions, generating facility shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In the event of a severe disruption resulting from such events, Vectren has contingency plans and employs crisis management to respond and recover operations. Despite these measures, if such an attack or security breach were to occur, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Workforce risks could affect Vectren’s financial results.The Company is subject to various workforce risks, including but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified and diverse personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; that it will be unable to react to a pandemic illness; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.