D. Risk Factors If you are considering purchasing our ordinary shares, preference shares or American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"), you should carefully read and think about all the information contained in this document, including the risk factors set out below, prior to making any investment decision. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the value and trading price of our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs may decline, resulting in a loss of all or a part of any investment in our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs. Furthermore, the risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk factors not currently known or which are currently believed to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis Uncertainty resulting from the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis is having and is likely to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the financial year ended December 31, 2009, 60.2% of our total interest and non-interest income and as of December 31, 2009, 73.2% of our gross loans, were derived from our operations in the Hellenic Republic. Accordingly, the quality of our assets, our financial condition and our results of 12 Table of Contents operations are heavily dependent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Greece. The Greek economy is experiencing a severe recession and the Hellenic Republic is experiencing unprecedented pressure on its public finances. As the Hellenic Republic's budget deficit for 2009 was revised to 13.6% of GDP from the EU's previous projection of 12.7% of GDP, fears of sovereign default in global financial markets led the yields of Greek government bonds to increase to levels above those seen before Greece's entry into the European Monetary Union. In addition, in April 2010 the Hellenic Republic's credit rating was lowered by Fitch Ratings Ltd ("Fitch") to BBB-, by Moody's Investors Services Limited ("Moody's") to A3 and by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("Standard & Poors") to BB+, which is below investment grade. Each of these rating agencies have placed us on a credit watch "negative" status. On June 14, 2010 Moody's further lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by four notches from A3 to Ba1, below investment grade, (see "—Our borrowing costs and liquidity levels may be negatively affected by further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating"). The tensions relating to Greek public finance have affected the liquidity and profitability of the financial system in the Hellenic Republic and have resulted in: •lower market values for Greek government debt, •limited liquidity to the Greek banking system and a heavy, reliance on ECB funding, •increased competition for, and thus cost of, customer deposits, •limited credit extension to customers, and •an increase in the amount of non-performing loans. In early May 2010, the Greek government agreed to a stabilization program, jointly supported by the IMF and the member states of the Eurozone (the "IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program"). See Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis" and Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece". The IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program requires the Greek government to implement austerity measures corresponding to 7.5% of GDP in 2010, 4% in 2011 and 2% in 2012 and 2013. If the program is fully implemented, the Greek government expects its general government deficit to decline to 8.1% of GDP in 2010 and to below 3% of GDP in 2014. The lower deficit will in turn put the government debt as a percentage of GDP on a downward trend from an expected peak of 149% of GDP in 2013, compared to 113% in 2009. The IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program also contains structural measures and policy guidelines designed to boost the country's competitiveness and improve the Hellenic Republic's potential growth rates in the medium term with a view to repaying the large debt burden. Specifically, the program requires the Greek government to implement measures intended to, among other things: •increase tax revenues, •reduce the unfunded liabilities of the pension system and the amount of expenditures on public health, •improve the flexibility of the Greek labor market, and •open up product and service markets. For more information about the main elements of each reform and the substantial risks to the program, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis". There is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program's fiscal targets will be met given the direct impact on economic activity of the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program's austerity measures, and increasing signs of re-emerging stress in international 13 Table of Contents financial markets in the second quarter of 2010. The implementation of structural reforms may also meet considerable opposition from labor unions and the general public in the Hellenic Republic. A failure to successfully implement the provisions of the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program and to attain its fiscal targets may lead the Greek Government being required to take additional austerity measures, which may lead to the termination of the financial support by the IMF and the EU, which would create the conditions for a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic debt. It remains to be seen whether the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program will be successfully implemented and if successfully implemented whether it will achieve its intended effects. A failure of these measures could prolong or exacerbate current macroeconomic conditions in Greece. Accordingly, the uncertainties resulting from the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis and the implementation of the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program, and related market reaction, have had, and continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if the Hellenic Republic successfully implements the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program, government debt as a percentage of GDP is projected by the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program to rise to 149% of GDP in 2013. It remains uncertain whether, even if the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program is successfully implemented, the Greek economy will grow sufficiently to ease the financing constraints of the Hellenic Republic. Even if the Hellenic Republic successfully implements the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program, any further significant deterioration of global economic conditions, including the credit profile of other EU countries, or the creditworthiness of Greek or international banks, or changes to the Eurozone, may give rise to concerns regarding the ability of the Hellenic Republic to meet its funding requirements. These concerns would: •directly impact the value of our portfolio of Greek government bonds (as of December 31, 2009, our holdings of approximately EUR 11.4 billion in Greek Government bonds represents approximately 63.0% of our bond portfolio); •severely affect our ability to raise capital and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements; •severely limit our ability to access liquidity; and •negatively affect our capital positions, results of operations and our financial condition. Recessionary pressures stemming from the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities are dependent on the level of banking, finance and financial products and services required by our customers, as well as their capacity to repay their liabilities. In particular, their levels of savings and credit demand are heavily dependent on customer confidence, employment trends, the state of the economies in countries in which we operate, and the availability and cost of funding. Recessionary pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The magnitude of the fiscal adjustment agreed under the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program is likely to have a significant effect on economic activity in the Hellenic Republic, adding to the possible negative impact arising from the sharp drop in consumer and business confidence resulting from the recent economic crisis and ongoing sizeable macroeconomic imbalances. Specifically, the program agreed with the IMF and the EU projects a decline in economic activity by 4% (in real terms) in 2010 and 2.6% in 2011, following the 2% decline in 2009. Future periods may also experience real declines in economic activity. 14 Table of Contents Loans to businesses and households are expected to remain under considerable pressure in Greece as the sizeable downward pressure on household disposable incomes and firms' profitability from the austerity measures as well as the resulting deterioration in the business environment against a backdrop of tighter credit conditions are likely to impair further demand for loans. In addition, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. A further weakening in the Greek economy may well occur and such a weakening would have a material adverse effect on our future results and financial condition. Market turmoil and worsening macro-economic conditions in the Hellenic Republic could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our borrowers, which could in turn further increase our non-performing loan ratios, impair our loan and other financial assets and result in decreased demand for borrowings in general and increased deposit outflows. In the context of continued market turmoil, worsening macro-economic conditions and increasing unemployment, coupled with declining consumer spending and business investment, the value of assets collateralizing our secured loans, including homes and other real estate, could decline significantly. Such a decline could result in impairment of the value of our loan assets or an increase in the level of non-performing loans, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. A sudden shortage of funds from customer deposits could cause an increase in our costs of funding and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity prospects. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been customer deposits. Since we rely on customer deposits for a majority of our funding, if our depositors withdraw their funds at a rate faster than the rate at which borrowers repay their loans, or if we are unable to obtain the necessary liquidity by other means, we may be unable to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain of our assets. In the first half of 2010, an outflow of customer deposits owing to concerns regarding the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis, as well as the Greek government's intensified usage of deposit data for tax audit purposes, has led to a decrease in customer deposits of the Bank in Greece. The ongoing availability of deposits to fund the Bank's loan portfolio is subject to potential changes in certain factors outside the Bank's control, such as depositors' concerns regarding either the economy in general, the financial services industry or the Bank specifically, ratings downgrades, significant further deterioration in economic conditions and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees. These factors could lead to a reduction in the Bank's ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms in the future and to sustained deposit outflows, both of which would impact on the Bank's ability to fund its operation and meet its minimum liquidity requirements. Any loss in consumer confidence in the Bank's banking businesses, or in banking businesses generally, could significantly increase the amount of customer deposit withdrawals in a short space of time. If the Bank or its subsidiaries experience an unusually high level of withdrawals, this may have an adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. In extreme circumstances, unusually high levels of withdrawals could prevent the Bank or another member of the Group from funding its operations and meeting its minimum liquidity requirements. In those extreme circumstances the Bank or another member of the Group may not be in a position to continue to operate without additional funding support, which it may be unable to secure. 15 Table of Contents We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB for funding and liquidity. Concerns relating to the impact of the economic crisis may adversely affect the Bank's credit risk profile, delay its return to the capital markets for funding, increase the cost of such funding and/or trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured-funding arrangements, including the ECB. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access of the Bank to the capital markets for funding, particularly unsecured funding and funding from the short-term inter-bank market because of concerns by counterparty banks. These markets are now effectively closed to all Greek banks. Since the end of 2009, maturing inter-bank liabilities have not been renewed, or renewed only at higher costs. In addition, some deposit outflows during the first months of 2010 put pressure on the liquidity position of many Greek banks. These liquidity pressures have been moderated by the ECB's announcement in May 2010 that it will accept Greek government bonds as collateral, irrespective of their rating. Accordingly, for the period of this suspension of the ECB's minimum rating requirement, Greek government bonds that meet the non-rating eligibility requirements of the ECB will be eligible as collateral for ECB liquidity operations, even though their rating may be lower than the BBB- rating issued by S&P or the Baa3 rating issued by Moody's. The ECB has not yet determined the length of the period of suspension of the rating requirement. The liquidity pressures have also been moderated by the ECB's purchase of sovereign debt in the secondary market. As at December 31, 2009, our ECB funding amounted to EUR 11.0 billion. Out of the collateral used in respect of our ECB funding, as at June 24, 2010 approximately EUR 0.7 billion of net funding comes from asset-backed securities and approximately EUR 4.0 billion of funding comes from covered bonds that may no longer be eligible as collateral for ECB funding operations as a result of further downgrades by Fitch and Moody's. On June 16, 2010 Moody's downgraded our covered bonds to Baa3 (see Item 5.B "Liquidity and Capital Resources"). The ratings assigned to these securities are linked to the ratings assigned to the Hellenic Republic. Accordingly, further downgrading to the ratings assigned to the Hellenic Republic would likely lead to downgrades to the ratings assigned to these securities. The Bank also has significant holdings of Greek government bonds and has issued a total of EUR 4.5 billion of notes that are guaranteed by the Hellenic Republic, which it uses as collateral for funding purposes, almost exclusively with the ECB since May 2010. The suspension of the ECB's minimum rating requirement in respect of Greek government bonds may end at a time when the Greek government's credit ratings make it ineligible for use in ECB liquidity operations. In any event, the amount of funding available from the ECB is tied to the value of the collateral we provide, including the market value of our holdings of Greek government bonds, which themselves may decline in response to ratings actions. If the value of our assets decline, then the amount of funding we can obtain from the ECB will be correspondingly limited. In addition, if the ECB were to revise its collateral standards or increase the rating requirements for collateral securities such that these instruments were not eligible to serve as collateral with the ECB, this could materially increase the Group's funding costs and limit its access to liquidity. Furthermore, it is unclear how long the ECB will offer unlimited access to short-term repos. In the event this is terminated, or the terms on which such access is offered change in a way which materially prejudices the Bank, this could adversely affect our access to liquidity and increase its funding costs significantly. There are risks associated with the Bank's potential need for additional capital. The Bank's ability to maintain its regulatory capital ratios and those of its subsidiary regulated institutions could be affected by a number of factors, including the level of risk weighted assets. In 16 Table of Contents addition, the Bank's Core Tier I ratio will be directly impacted by its after-tax results which could be affected, most notably, from greater than anticipated asset impairments. The Bank is required by regulators in the Hellenic Republic and other countries in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital. The Bank is subject to the risk of having insufficient capital resources to meet the minimum applicable regulatory capital requirements. In addition, those minimum regulatory requirements may increase in the future and/or the manner in which the existing regulatory requirements are applied may change. The deterioration in credit quality of the Bank's assets may exceed expectations and generate an additional regulatory capital requirement. Effective management of the Bank's regulatory capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy. Any change that limits the Bank's ability to manage its balance sheet and regulatory capital resources effectively (including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions or otherwise) or to access funding sources could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position. There is a risk that the Bank would be unable to raise all the capital it needs, including any additional regulatory capital the Bank requires to take account of potential losses on its loans or impairments on its assets, including its significant holdings of Hellenic Republic debt or in view of new regulatory requirements. As of December 31, 2009, Greek government bonds represented 10.1% of assets and 125.2% of total equity. If the Bank is unable to raise the requisite capital, it may be required to further reduce the amount of its risk weighted assets and engage in the disposal of core and non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group. Any failure by the Bank to maintain its minimum regulatory capital ratios could result in administrative actions or other sanctions, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operating results, financial condition and prospects (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). If the Bank is required to strengthen its capital position, it may not be possible for it to raise additional capital at an acceptable cost or at all from the financial markets or to dispose of marketable assets. That could potentially lead to further mandatory capital injections from the Greek government, which would dilute the interests of the shareholders. The IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program and receipt of state aid may subject the Bank to additional burdens, such as stress testing. Declining profitability and the possibility of operating losses in what could be a drawn-out recession risks eroding the capital bases of Greek banks. The IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program, therefore, contains a third pillar in the form of a Financial Stability Fund (the "FSF") intended to maintain the stability of the Greek banking system by providing capital support, if a significant decline in capital buffers occurs. As a condition to providing this support, the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program will require critical banks to undertake stress tests to determine capital needs, as determined by shortfalls against a yet undetermined minimum level. We cannot predict at present the outcome of the stress tests which will be undertaken under the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program as the parameters of these stress tests have yet to be determined. If the Bank fails to pass the stress test and is required to receive such additional capital, the FSF may exercise significant control over the operations of the Bank and could have a material adverse affect on our profitability, capital management, and financial condition. The FSF is intended to be managed by independent representatives from the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Finance and EC/ECB observers. For more information on the FSF, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis" and "Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece". 17 Table of Contents The participation by the Bank in the Hellenic Republic's bank support plan, as well as any further aid received from the FSF arising from the stress tests under the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program, or otherwise, may be considered state aid for the purposes of EU state aid and competition rules. If so, this may require the creation of restructuring plans or other actions that the Bank is not currently able to anticipate. These plans could result in balance sheet management, including divestments of core and non-core operations or additional burdens on the Bank, which could have a material effect on our future results and financial condition. The capital support program under the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program would strengthen the core capital base of the banks in the form of preference shares convertible into ordinary shares (if a bank fails the stress tests and other financial targets in the restructuring plan). The preference shares issued under the Hellenic Republic bank support plan are also convertible in certain circumstances. Any such issuance of ordinary shares will dilute shareholders' interests in the Bank and may result in shareholders losing value. Our wholesale borrowing costs and access to liquidity and capital have been negatively affected by a series of recent credit rating downgrades of the Bank and may be negatively affected by further downgrades. Since October 2009, we have experienced a series of credit ratings downgrades principally reflecting the series of downgrades in the Hellenic Republic's credit rating and the Greek economic crisis. These downgrades may continue. Any further reductions in the long-term credit ratings of the Bank could delay the Bank's return to the capital and inter-bank markets for funding and/or increase our borrowing costs. Any further reductions may also trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements and may result in counterparties no longer being willing to enter into hedging transactions with the Bank. As a result, any further reductions in the Bank's credit ratings could adversely affect our access to liquidity and competitive position or have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition. Our borrowing costs and liquidity levels may be negatively affected by further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating. The Hellenic Republic has recently undergone a series of credit rating downgrades, with Fitch lowering the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to BBB- (on April 9, 2010), Standard & Poor's to BB+ (on April 27, 2010) and Moody's to Ba1 with a stable outlook (on June 14, 2010), the latter two being both below investment grade. Moody's also downgraded Greece's short-term issuer rating to not-prime from Prime-1. The agencies' rationale for these downgrades was that a deepening recession and rising debt service costs would make it harder for the Hellenic Republic to meet its deficit-reduction targets. A downgrade of the Hellenic Republic's rating may occur again in the future in the event of a more drastic deterioration in public finances as a result of a poorer performance in economic activity or as a result of the measures proposed being perceived as insufficient. Accordingly, the cost of risk for the Hellenic Republic would increase further, with negative effects on the cost of risk for Greek banks and hence on their results. Historically, the Bank's credit rating has been no higher than the rating for the Hellenic Republic. Further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic could result in a corresponding downgrade in the Bank's credit rating. Negative sentiment surrounding the Hellenic Republic, including a further downgrade of the sovereign rating, could also further increase the debt servicing cost of the Hellenic Republic. The widening of this spread could delay the country's economic improvement by raising the borrowing costs for the banks which is then passed on to the customers, as well as result in credit rationing. This will ultimately affect the Bank's future business volumes and put additional strains on its liquidity, profitability and asset quality. 18 Table of Contents Deteriorating asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions may adversely affect our future earnings. The global economic slowdown and economic crisis in Greece have resulted in an increase in non-performing loans and significant changes in the fair values of our exposures. A substantial portion of our loans to corporate and individual borrowers are secured by collateral such as real estate, securities, ships, term deposits and receivables. In particular, as mortgage loans are one of our principal assets, we are currently highly exposed to developments in real estate markets, especially in Greece and, in addition, we currently have substantial exposure to certain real estate developers in Greece. From 2002 to 2007, demand for housing and mortgage financing in Greece increased significantly driven by, among other things, economic growth, declining unemployment rates, demographic and social trends, the desirability of Greece as a vacation destination and historically low interest rates in the Euro-zone. During late 2007, the housing market began to adjust in Greece as a result of excess supply and higher interest rates. In 2008 as economic growth came to a halt and the economy began to contract, retail interest rates continued to increase, housing oversupply persisted, unemployment continued to increase and demand continued to decrease, home prices began declining and mortgage delinquencies increased. Economic conditions have continued to decline in 2009 and into 2010. Continued decline in the general Greek economy or a general deterioration of economic conditions in any industries in which our borrowers operate or in other markets in which the collateral is located, may result in decreases in the value of collateral securing the loans to levels below the outstanding principal balance on such loans. A decline in the value of collateral securing these loans or the inability to obtain additional collateral may require us to establish additional provisions for loan losses and increase reserve requirements. In addition, a failure to recover the expected value of collateral in the case of foreclosure may expose us to losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, an increase in financial market volatility or adverse changes in the liquidity of our assets could impair our ability to value certain of our assets and exposures. Valuations in future periods, reflecting then-prevailing market conditions, may result in significant changes in the fair values of these assets and exposures. In addition, the value ultimately realized by us will depend on the fair value as determined at that time and may be materially different from the current or estimated fair value. Any of these factors could require us to recognize write-downs or realize impairment charges, any of which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank may not pay dividends to its ordinary shareholders. Under Greek Law 3844/2010 and Law 3756/2009, we did not pay any cash dividends to our ordinary shareholders in 2010 in respect of the 2009 financial year or in 2009 in respect of the 2008 financial year, respectively. Subsequent legislation or the issuance of preference shares to the FSF may prohibit us from paying cash dividends in subsequent years. As a result of our participation in the Hellenic Republic bank support plan, our dividends are subject to a maximum of 35% of the Bank's distributable profits (on an unconsolidated basis) for as long as the Bank participates in this plan, and any decisions regarding distribution of dividends and remuneration can be vetoed by the Hellenic Republic representative who sits on our Board and attends the General Meeting. Our participation in the Hellenic Republic bank support plan has also resulted in the issuance of fixed return preference shares to the Hellenic Republic. In addition, in June 2008, we issued 25 million non-cumulative, non-voting redeemable preference shares. Payments of dividend on these redeemable preference shares and payments of the fixed return for the preference shares issued pursuant to the Hellenic Republic bank support plan take preference over distributable profits otherwise available to our ordinary shareholders. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis in Greece, our profitability may decline. Consequently, we may not be able to pay cash dividends to our ordinary shareholders in 2011, and if current market conditions persist, if we continue to participate in the Hellenic Republic bank support plan or if we are required to issue preference shares to the FSF, in the near-to medium-term (see Item 8.A, "Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Policy on Dividend Distributions"). 19 Table of Contents Government and inter-governmental interventions aimed at alleviating the financial crisis are uncertain and carry additional risks. Government and inter-governmental interventions aimed at alleviating the financial crisis could lead to increased ownership and control of financial institutions by the Hellenic Republic or other entities and further consolidation in the banking sector. In the 2008 - 2009 global financial crisis, various governments responded to credit or liquidity concerns in certain banks by nationalizing or partially nationalizing those banks or putting them through a form of resolution or recapitalization process. During that period, even if banks were not fully nationalized, shareholders experienced significant dilution and loss of value. Risks Relating to Volatility in the Global Financial Markets We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. Although the global economic recovery has gained momentum since the third quarter of 2009, in many economies with which Greece has strong export links, the strength of the rebound has been moderate relative to the severity of the recession. Activity remains dependent on highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and is subject to downside risks, as room for countercyclical policy measures has sharply diminished and fiscal fragilities have come to the fore. Policymakers in many advanced economies have publicly acknowledged the need to urgently adopt credible strategies to contain public debt and excessive fiscal deficits and later bring them down to more sustainable levels. The implementation of these policies may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business and results of operations. Concerns about sovereign credit risks have progressively intensified over the last six months, especially in the Euro area, and became more acute in early May 2010. The main trigger for the markets' reappraisal of sovereign credit risk appeared to be the Hellenic Republic's debt burden and uncertainty surrounding the prospect of agreeing on a credible fiscal support plan for the Hellenic Republic until late April 2010. In financial markets, worries surfaced first in a progressive widening of intra-Euro area government bond and sovereign credit default swap ("CDS") spreads for several Euro area issuers with large fiscal imbalances. Against a background of increasing unease over the macro/financial implications of sizeable fiscal imbalances, investors have reduced their investment in a variety of asset classes, including those in bond, stock, commodity and money markets. Continued reduction in investment flows may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our ability to fund our operations. Results of operations, both in Greece and our international operations, in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political and regulatory risks, public finances conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values; the availability and cost of credit; inflation, the stability and solvency of financial institutions and other companies; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these factors. We are exposed to risks potentially faced by other financial institutions. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Sovereign credit pressures may weigh on Greek financial institutions, limiting their funding operations and weakening their capital adequacy by reducing the market value of their sovereign and other fixed income holdings. These liquidity concerns have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, inter-institutional financial transactions in general. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. 20 Table of Contents In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient for us to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Operations Outside of the Hellenic Republic Our Turkish operations make a significant contribution to our earnings. Operating in Turkey carries certain macroeconomic and political risks. Turkish operations through Finansbank A.S. and its subsidiaries, as well as NBG Bank (Malta) Ltd (formerly Finansbank (Malta) Ltd), accounted for approximately 29.3% of our total interest and non-interest income and contributed EUR 412.9 million to our net income for the year ended December 31, 2009. As a result the Group is subject to operating risks in Turkey, including the following: •Turkey is a parliamentary democracy and, although stable, it is not free from political instability and domestic terrorist acts. •Military operations in the Middle East and elsewhere have increased the political and economic risks in the region. The current situation in the area may contribute to further tension. These risks may have an impact on the Turkish economy and the Group's operations in Turkey. •Since the early 1980's, the Turkish economy has undergone a transformation from a highly protected state-directed system to a more free market economy, experiencing an overall pattern of growth from 1992 to 2007. However, the Turkish economy has experienced a succession of financial crises in 2000 and 2001, as well as macroeconomic imbalances, including substantial budget deficits, significant balance of payments deficits, high inflation rates and high real interest rates. Turkey's economy is exposed to the effects of the continuing global credit difficulties, experiencing four successive quarters of deep recession between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the third quarter of 2009 after 27 quarters of strong growth. Turkey may face more financial crises, which could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's operations. Turkey remains dependent on external financing. With domestic Turkish political uncertainties on the rise, ahead of anticipated constitutional reforms, and a new IMF program unlikely in the near term, we cannot rule out new turmoil in domestic Turkish financial markets and a deterioration of the macroeconomic performance. Such likelihood would increase if international market turbulence continues. These developments would have a negative impact on Finansbank's operations in Turkey. •Historically, the Turkish currency has been subject to significant volatility against the Euro and other currencies. For example, the Turkish lira depreciated by 0.3% against the Euro and appreciated by 3.2% against the US dollar between December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009. From the Group's acquisition of Finansbank on August 18, 2006 to December 31, 2009, the Turkish lira has depreciated by 13.9% against the Euro and by 2.1% against the US dollar. These fluctuations could have a negative impact on the value of the Bank's investment in Finansbank and on the Group's overall profitability. The Group has taken steps in the past to reduce its exposure to Turkish lira exchange rate fluctuations and intends to continue to implement such programs; however, such protection may not be available on as favorable terms as have been available in the past or at all. •The Group believes the general level of macroeconomic and political risk to be higher in Turkey than in other countries whose economies and banking markets are more developed and that are already members of the EU, but the risk levels are converging. While the Group believes there 21 Table of Contents is potential for substantial growth in the Turkish banking market, growth may not occur or Finansbank may be unable to benefit from that growth. Adverse macroeconomic and political events, which limit economic growth in Turkey or restrict the growth of the banking market, may adversely affect Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Bank's business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes in the competitive environment in Turkey may adversely affect Finansbank's business. Increased competition from existing competitors or from new entrants to the Turkish market could limit Finansbank's ability to grow or to maintain its market share and could cause downward pressure on margins, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our strategic objectives in Turkey. We conduct significant international activities and are expanding in emerging markets. Apart from our operations in the Hellenic Republic and Turkey, we have built up substantial operations in Bulgaria, Romania, FYROM, Serbia and other developing economies. The Group's SEE operations accounted for 11.6% of our loan portfolio and 11.8% of our total interest and non-interest income as at and for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our international operations are exposed to the risk of adverse political, governmental or economic developments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, most of the countries outside the Hellenic Republic in which we operate are emerging markets where we face particular operating risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations also expose us to foreign currency risk. A decline in the value of the currencies in which our international subsidiaries receive their income or hold their assets relative to the value of the Euro may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The economic crisis in Greece may: •adversely affect the operations of our international subsidiaries, including Turkey, •increase depositors' concerns regarding the creditworthiness of the Hellenic Republic and the Bank, which may affect their willingness to continue to be customer of our international subsidiaries, and •result in local governmental intervention. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We maintain trading and investment positions in debt, currency, equity and other markets. These positions could be adversely affected by increased volatility and further dislocation in financial and other markets and the Greek sovereign debt crisis, creating a risk of substantial losses. Significant falls in perceived or actual asset values have resulted from previous market events. Increased volatility and further dislocation affecting certain financial markets and asset classes could further impact the Group's financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the future these factors could have an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in the Bank's available-for-sale ("AFS"), trading portfolios and assets and liabilities designated at fair value. These include significant holdings of Greek government bonds. In addition, any further deterioration in the performance of the assets in the Bank's AFS portfolio could lead to additional impairment losses. The AFS portfolio accounted for 13.9% of total Group assets as at December 31, 2009. Volatility can also lead to losses relating to a broad range of other trading and hedging products we use, including swaps, futures, options and structured 22 Table of Contents products. For further information on market risk exposures in those portfolios, you should refer to Item 11, "Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk". Non-performing loans have had a negative impact on our operations and may continue to do so. Non-performing loans represented approximately 4.9% of our loans portfolio as of December 31, 2009 (of which 65.6% were Greek) (see Item 4.E, "Selected Statistical Data—Credit Quality—Non-Performing Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Loan Loss Experience" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations—Non-Performing Loans"). The effect of the economic crisis, the implementation of the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program and negative macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate, which are influenced by the economic crisis, will lead to additional non-performing loan generation during the remainder of 2010. This may result in adverse changes in the credit quality of our borrowers, with increasing delinquencies and defaults. In addition, collateral collections are more difficult in a period of economic recession and in view of existing legislation. In addition, customer behavior has been anticipating proposed legislation to restructure household debt (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). Future provisions for non-performing loans could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. There can be no guarantee that further events will not alter the interest rate environment. Cost of funding is especially at risk in view of our reliance on ECB funding and the tight liquidity conditions in the domestic deposit market. As with any bank, changes in market interest rates affect the interest rates we charge on our interest earning assets differently than the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could reduce our net interest income and net interest margins. Since the majority of our loan portfolio effectively reprices in five years or less, rising interest rates may also result in an increase in our allowance for loan losses if customers cannot refinance in a higher interest rate environment. Further, an increase in interest rates may reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect us through, among other things, lower net interest margins, increased pre-payments on our loan and mortgage portfolio and increased competition for deposits. We face significant competition from Greek and foreign banks. The general scarcity of wholesale funding has led to a significant increase in competition for retail deposits. We also face competition from foreign banks, some of which may have resources greater than our own. This competition for deposits has intensified during the recent economic crisis in Greece. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with domestic and international banks in the future. Furthermore, recent consolidation among banking institutions in the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe is changing the competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions. This consolidation may extend into the Group's principal geographic markets, including Greece, and could increase competitive pressures on the Group. The state of the political environment in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE significantly affect our performance. The economic and political environment in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and in other countries in which we operate may be adversely affected by events outside our control, such as changes in 23 Table of Contents government policies, EU directives in the banking sector and other areas, political instability or military action affecting Europe and/or other areas abroad and taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and the countries in which we operate or may plan to expand. Applicable bankruptcy laws and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to obtain payments on defaulted credits. Bankruptcy laws and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights vary significantly within the region that the Group operates in. In some countries, the laws offer significantly less protection for creditors than the bankruptcy regimes in Western Europe and the United States. If the current economic downturn persists or worsens, bankruptcies could intensify, or applicable bankruptcy protection laws and regulations may change to limit the impact of the recession on corporate and retail borrowers. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in consumer protection laws might limit the fees that the Group may charge in certain banking transactions. Changes in consumer protection laws in Greece and/or other jurisdictions where the Group has operations could limit the fees that banks may charge for certain products and services. If introduced, such laws could reduce the Group's operating income, though the amount of any such reduction cannot be quantified at this time. Our business is subject to increasingly onerous and complex regulation. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location where it operates. All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions. In response to the global financial crisis, national governments as well as supranational groups, such as the EU, have been considering significant changes to current regulatory frameworks, including those pertaining to capital adequacy and scope of banks' operations. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of our participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives, such as the Hellenic Republic bank support plan), we may face greater regulation in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE. Compliance with these new regulations may increase our regulatory capital requirements and costs, heighten disclosure requirements, restrict certain types of transactions, affect our strategy and limit or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loan and other products, any of which could lower the return on its investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. These measures may be significant in their scope and may have unintended consequences for the global financial system, the Greek financial system or our business, including reducing competition, increasing general uncertainty in the markets or favoring or disfavoring certain lines of business. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes on our business, financial condition, cash flow or future prospects. Regulation of the banking industry in the Hellenic Republic has changed in recent years largely as a result of Greece's implementation of applicable EU directives and in response to the economic crisis in the Hellenic Republic. In addition, a number of regulatory initiatives have recently been proposed, 24 Table of Contents which would significantly alter the Group's regulatory capital requirements (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). These proposed initiatives include: •EU Directive 2009/111/EC or CRD II (due to be implemented by December 31, 2010) will make changes to the criteria for assessing hybrid capital eligible to be included in Tier I Capital and may require the Group to replace, over a staged grandfathering period, existing capital instruments that do not fall within these revised eligibility criteria. Pending the transposition of CRD II into Greek law, there is still significant uncertainly around the interpretation and the implementation of CRD II and any transposing Greek law as it relates to the Bank. •EU Capital Requirements Directive III or CRD III (currently subject to consultation with implementation of the rules expected to occur by January 1, 2011) will introduce a number of changes in response to the recent and current market conditions, which may: –Increase the capital requirements for trading books to ensure that a bank's assessment of the risks connected with its trading book better reflects the potential losses from adverse market movements in stressed conditions; –Limit investments in re-securitizations and impose higher capital requirements for re-securitizations to make sure that banks take proper account of the risks of investing in such complex financial products; •In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, in the Basel III proposal, proposed strengthening the global capital framework by, among other things: –raising the quality of the Core Tier I Capital base in a harmonized manner (including through changes to the items which give rise to adjustments to that capital base); –strengthening the risk coverage of the capital framework; –promoting the build up of capital buffers; and –introducing a global minimum liquidity standard for the banking sector (any changes are not expected to be implemented until after 2012); •In February 2010, the European Commission issued a public consultation document on further possible changes to the Capital Requirements Directive IV, or CRD IV, which is closely aligned with the above-mentioned Basel Committee proposals. •When implemented (as required by October 31, 2012), the Solvency II Directive (Directive 2009/158/EC) will alter significantly the capital structure and overall governance of the Group's life assurance business, and this may have an impact on the capital structure of the Group. Significant uncertainty remains around the final requirements and implementation of these proposed initiatives. If certain of these measures were implemented as currently proposed, in particular the changes proposed by the Basel Committee and the CRD IV consultation document relating to the definition of and instruments that are eligible to be included within the Core Tier 1 Capital base, they would be expected to have a significant impact on the capital and asset and liability management of the Group. This in turn would be expected to have an adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, on June 16, 2010, EU officials announced their intention to publish the results of stress testing of the largest EU based banks. Neither the results of the stress tests nor the date of publication are known. Significant loss of confidence in the banking sector arising from the publication of these results could have a material adverse effect on our cost of funding and therefore, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents The banking regulations in Turkey are evolving in parallel to the global changes and international regulatory environment. The Group expects Turkey to adopt regulations implementing Basel II, but the timing of these regulatory changes cannot be predicted. Currently, the Group is preparing to move to the Basel II requirements in Turkey. Adopting the Basel II standardized approach will decrease the capital requirement for the retail loans; while corporate and commercial loans are expected to be adversely affected as a result of anticipated higher capital requirements. If the Group is required to make additional significant provisions or increase its reserves, as a result of potential regulatory changes, this could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to reduce staff in the Hellenic Republic is limited. Part of our strategy is to increase profitability by making our operations more efficient. Our ability to realize one component of this, reducing staff, is limited by Greek labor laws, our collective agreement, current employment regulation and our desire to maintain good relations with our employees. As a result, we will continue to depend on voluntary redundancies and attrition to achieve staff reductions. We will continue to assess whether we will be able to reduce our staff. However, we may not always be successful in achieving staff reductions. The loss of senior management may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. Our current senior management team includes a number of executives that we believe contribute significant experience and expertise to our management in the banking sectors in which we operate. The continued success of our business and our ability to execute our business strategy will depend, in large part, on the efforts of our senior management. For instance, a change of government in the Hellenic Republic could lead to the departure of certain senior managers. If a substantial portion of our senior management leaves us, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to recruit or retain experienced and/or qualified personnel. Our competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified and experienced banking and management personnel. Competition in the Greek and other SEE banking industries for personnel with relevant expertise is intense due to the relatively limited availability of qualified individuals. To recruit qualified and experienced employees and to minimize the possibility of their departure, we provide compensation packages consistent with evolving standards in the relevant labor markets. Under the terms of the Hellenic Republic bank support plan, as currently applicable, the Bank is prohibited from paying bonuses to the members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive officer and any general managers and substitutes of them. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis, like other Greek banks we are limiting or restricting the bonuses we pay our personnel, which may inhibit the retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel. However, inability to recruit and retain qualified and experienced personnel in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE, or manage our current personnel successfully, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. This risk has increased in view of the current economic situation in Greece. We could be exposed to significant future pension and post-retirement benefit liabilities. Like other large companies in the Hellenic Republic that are, or were, in the public sector, the employees of the Bank and certain of our subsidiaries participate in employee-managed pension schemes. The Bank and certain of our subsidiaries make significant contributions to these schemes. Our consolidated net liability under these plans as of December 31, 2009 was EUR 403.9 million, determined by reference to a number of critical assumptions. These include assumptions about movements in interest rates which may not be realized. Such variation may cause us to incur significantly increased liability in respect of these obligations. For more information on our current 26 Table of Contents obligations under pension plans and the assumptions by reference to which they are determined, please refer to Note 39 to the US GAAP Financial Statements. Following legislation passed in April 2008, the Bank's main pension plan and the main pension branch of Ethniki Hellenic General Insurance S.A.'s ("EI") post-retirement and health plan, both of which are defined-contribution plans, have been incorporated into the main pension branch of the state-sponsored social security fund ("IKA—ETAM"). Pursuant to this legislation, the Bank will contribute into IKA—ETAM EUR 25.5 million per year for 15 years from December 2009. In addition, in 2005 and 2006, the Hellenic Republic passed legislation permitting bank employee auxiliary pension schemes to merge with the new Insurance Fund of Bank Employees ("ETAT"). The relevant legislation provides that, in connection with the merger of auxiliary schemes with ETAT, the relevant employer shall make a payment to ETAT solely in an amount to be determined by an independent financial report commissioned by the Ministry of Finance pursuant to this legislation. Subsequently, in April 2006 the Bank applied under Greek Law 3371/2005, as amended, to merge its Auxiliary Pension Fund into ETAT. It is possible that we may have a future requirement to make a significant cash payment to ETAT in connection with the merger of the Bank's employee pension schemes with ETAT. In addition, the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program anticipates further reforms to pensions. These developments, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and any future legislation regarding pensions and pension liabilities or other post-retirement benefit obligations, including those under the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program may increase the liability of the Bank or its subsidiaries with respect to pension and other post-retirement benefit plan contributions to cover actuarial or operating deficits of those plans. The Greek banking sector is subject to strikes. Most of the Bank's employees belong to a union and the Greek banking industry has been subject to strikes over the issues of pensions and wages. Bank employees throughout the Hellenic Republic went on strike for three days in 2009. Bank employees have gone on strike four days thus far in 2010 (up to May 31, 2010), largely to express their opposition to the new austerity measures implemented in light of the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program. Greek bank unions in general participate in general strikes which have increased. Prolonged labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations in the Hellenic Republic, either directly or indirectly, for example on the willingness or ability of the government to pass the reforms necessary to successfully implement the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program. We are exposed to credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. As a result of our activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. Among the most significant of these risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. Failure to control these risks could result in material adverse effects on our financial performance and reputation. •Credit Risk. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss relating to the failure of a borrower to honor its contractual obligations. Credit risk arises in lending activities and also in various other activities where we are exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as our trading, capital markets and settlement activities. Counterparty default can be caused by a number of reasons, which we may not be able to accurately assess at the time it undertakes the relevant activity. Credit risk has increased in the period since September 2007. Furthermore, the database that monitors defaulting customers across the banking system in the Hellenic Republic, commonly known as "Tiresias", does not monitor aggregate amounts of non-defaulted loans outstanding to a debtor. The Credit Bureau services of Teiresias are expanding and a database for non-defaulted loans is in the process of being set up but is still not complete. 27 Table of Contents •Market Risk. Market risk includes, but is not limited to, interest rate, foreign exchange rate, bond price and equity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect our net interest margin. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets or financial conditions generally may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. We have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which our portfolios are also exposed. However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our financial performance and business operations. •Liquidity Risk. The inability of any bank, including the Bank, to anticipate and provide for unforeseen decreases or changes in funding sources could have consequences on the bank's ability to meet its obligations when they fall due. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access to markets for the Bank, which currently relies almost entirely on the ECB. See "—Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis—We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and we are heavily dependent on the ECB for funding and liquidity". •Operational Risk. Operational risk corresponds to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether deliberate, accidental or natural occurrences. Internal events include, but are not limited to, fraud by employees, clerical and record keeping errors and information systems malfunctions or manipulations. External events include floods, fires, earthquakes, riots or terrorist attacks, fraud by outsiders and equipment failures. Finally, we may also fail to comply with regulatory requirements or conduct of business rules. •Insurance Risk. Insurance risk is the risk to earnings due to mismatches between expected and actual claims. Depending on the insurance product, this risk is influenced by macroeconomic changes, changes in customer behavior, changes in public health, pandemics and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, industrial disasters, fires, riots or terrorism. Although the Bank believes that its risk management and risk mitigation policies are adequate, continuing volatility as a result of market forces out of our control could cause the Bank's liquidity position to deteriorate. Such deterioration would increase funding costs and limit the Bank's capacity to increase its credit portfolio and the total amount of its assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, financial condition or results of operations. Our hedging may not prevent losses. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we use to hedge our exposure to various types of economic risk in our businesses is not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. Unexpected market developments therefore may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Moreover, we do not hedge all of our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. In particular, we are exposed to Turkish lira fluctuations and do not always hedge this exposure. In addition, we are exposed to the sovereign credit risk of the Hellenic Republic which we do not hedge. An interruption in or a breach of security in our information systems may result in business disruptions and other losses. We rely on communications and information systems provided by third parties to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, and servicing and/or 28 Table of Contents loan organization systems. We cannot provide assurances that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer data and an inability to service our customers, which could result in a loss of customers or have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The Hellenic Republic and state-related entities may have an important influence on the Bank. In addition to representation on the Board of Directors as a result of our participation in the Hellenic Republic bank support plan, and any direct holding of our ordinary shares it may acquire, the Hellenic Republic may exercise a degree of indirect influence on us, through certain state-related entities (primarily pension funds, most of whose boards of directors are appointed by the Hellenic Republic). As of June 9, 2010, domestic pension funds owned approximately 16.5% of our share capital, and other domestic public sector related legal entities and the Church of Greece owned approximately 7.5%. If there is not a full voting participation by all of our shareholders at a given shareholders' meeting, these state-related entities, despite holding a non-controlling level of our total shares, may have a voting majority at such meeting (see Item 7.A, "—Major Shareholders—State Interests"). There is a risk that the Hellenic Republic might seek to exert influence over the Group. The Hellenic Republic directly owns all 70 million non-transferable redeemable preference shares issued under the capital facility of the Hellenic Republic bank support plan. This direct stake in the Bank endows the Hellenic Republic with voting rights at the general meeting of preferred shareholders and requires the inclusion of a government-appointed representative on our Board, who attends the general meeting of ordinary shareholders of the Bank (the "General Meeting"). This representative has the ability to veto actions relating to the distribution of dividends and the remuneration of certain of the Bank's directors and senior management in certain circumstances (see Item 4.B, "Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—Plan for the Support of the Liquidity of the Greek Economy"). If economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate or if the financial position of the Group deteriorates, further government or inter-governmental intervention may take place through the FSF. Any further government or inter-governmental intervention, including through the FSF, may have a material adverse effect on the interest of other holders of our securities, on results of operation and financial conditions. Capital shares issued under the FSF will provide it with significant management powers see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece". Furthermore, the Hellenic Republic also has interests in other Greek financial institutions and an interest in the health of the Greek banking industry and other industries generally, and those interests may not always be aligned with the commercial interests of the Group or its shareholders. An action supported by the Hellenic Republic may not be in the best interests of the Group or its shareholders generally. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at its historical rate. Recent growth in our loan portfolio has been driven, in part by the expansion of our branch network. We may not be able to achieve similar rates of loan portfolio growth in the future. Furthermore, there are a limited number of high credit quality customers to whom banking services may be provided in our target markets. The pace of our loan portfolio growth may be constrained by, among other factors, the health of the Greek economy in light of the economic crisis and the IMF/Eurozone Stabilization Program and our ability to increase lending volumes to customers that meet its credit quality standards. If we are unable to further expand our loan portfolio in general and/or our 29 Table of Contents customer base in particular, we may not generate sufficient interest income to offset any decline in net interest margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to additional taxes. At the European Council Summit held on June 17, 2010, representatives agreed that Member States should introduce a system of levies and taxes on financial institutions to promote a the equitable distribution of the costs of the global financial crisis. Such initiatives could subject the Group to additional taxes. Risks Relating to the Markets Exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on the value of our shares. The market price of our shares traded on the Athens Exchange ("ATHEX") is denominated in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and other currencies may affect the value of the Bank's shares in the local currency of investors in the United States and other countries that have not adopted the euro as their currency. Additionally, any cash dividends on our ordinary shares are paid in euros and, therefore, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations when converted to an investor's local currency, including U.S. dollars. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major exchanges. The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is the ATHEX. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major stock markets in Western Europe and the United States. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty assessing the past performance of the shares based on our prior trading record on the ATHEX. In 2009, the average daily trading value on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 204 million, while in the first five months of 2010 it was approximately EUR 202.6 million. In comparison, the average daily trading value on the London Stock Exchange was approximately GBP 12.6 billion in 2009. As at December 31, 2009, the aggregate market value of all shares listed on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 81.6 billion, while as at May 31, 2010 it was approximately EUR 60.5 billion. The market value of our ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX on December 31, 2009 and May 31, 2010 was EUR 11.0 billion and EUR 6.1 billion, representing approximately 13.2% and 10.2%, respectively, of the capitalization of all companies listed on the ATHEX. We cannot make assurances about the future liquidity of the market for our shares. Our share price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our shares has been subject to significant volatility in the past, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: •The overall condition of the Greek economy and budget deficit; •The condition of the Turkish and other economies in which we do business; •The perceived stability of the European Monetary Union; •Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •Results of operations of our competitors; •Potential changes in banking regulatory regimes; 30 Table of Contents •Potential or actual sales of large amounts of the Bank's shares into the market; •Our competitors' positions in the market; •Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •Conditions and trends in the banking sector in Greece and elsewhere in Europe; and •The general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the Greek, Turkish, other SEE and financial services sectors). The exercise of pre-emptive rights may not be available to US holders of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts. Under Greek law and our Articles of Association, prior to the issuance of any new Ordinary Shares, we must offer holders of our existing Ordinary Shares pre-emptive rights to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of Ordinary Shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages. These pre-emptive rights are generally transferable during the rights trading period for the related offering and may be traded on the ATHEX. Holders in the United States of the Bank's Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs") may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for any such offering of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act") is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement with respect to any future offering will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling US holders of Ordinary Shares and ADRs to exercise their pre-emptive rights and any other factors we may consider appropriate at the time. If holders in the United States of the Bank's Ordinary Shares and ADRs are not able to exercise pre-emptive rights granted in respect of their shares in any rights offering by us then they might not receive the economic benefit of such rights. In addition, their proportional ownership interests in the Bank will be diluted. 