ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause the Company’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and the Company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s businesses or financial performance. Vectren is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in its subsidiaries. Dividends on Vectren’s common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and cash flow of its subsidiaries, principally Utility Holdings and Enterprises, and the distribution or other payment of earnings from those entities to Vectren. Should the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements or cash flow of, or legal requirements applicable to, them restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company, its ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited and its stock price could be adversely affected. Vectren’s results of operations, future growth and earnings and dividend goals also will depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. Additionally, certain of the Company’s lending arrangements contain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a total debt to total capitalization ratio, which could limit its ability to pay dividends. Continued deterioration in general economic conditions may have adverse impacts. The current economic environment is challenging and uncertain. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. Further, the risks associated with industries in which the Company operates and serves become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for natural gas and electricity. The recent economic downturn may have some negative impact on both gas and electric large customers. This impact may include tempered growth, significant conservation measures, and perhaps even plant closures or bankruptcies. Deteriorating economic conditions may also lead to lower residential and commercial customer counts and thus lower Company revenues. It is also highly possible that a prolonged recession could result in increased costs including pension costs, interest costs, and bad debt expense in excess of historical levels. -13- Table of Contents Further, the Company’s nonutility portfolio may also be negatively impacted. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for products and services offered by nonutility operations and therefore lower revenues for those products and services. The recent economic downturn may have some negative impact on utility industry spending for construction projects, demand for coal, and spending on performance contracting and renewable energy expansion. It is also possible that a prolonged recession could result in further reductions in the value of certain nonutility real estate and other legacy investments. Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are concentrated in the Midwest. The operations of the Company’s regulated utilities are concentrated in central and southern Indiana and west central Ohio and are therefore impacted by changes in the Midwest economy in general and changes in particular industries concentrated in the Midwest. These industries include automotive assembly, parts and accessories, feed, flour and grain processing, metal castings, aluminum products, appliance manufacturing, polycarbonate resin (Lexan®) and plastic products, gypsum products, electrical equipment, metal specialties, glass, steel finishing, pharmaceutical and nutritional products, gasoline and oil products, ethanol and coal mining. While no one industrial customer comprises 10 percent of consolidated revenues, the top five industrial electric customers comprise approximately 17 percent of electric utility revenues, and therefore any significant decline in their collective revenues could adversely impact operating results. Current financial market volatility could have adverse impacts. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company, or its unconsolidated affiliates, will not experience adverse effects, which may be material. These effects may include, but are not limited to, difficulties in accessing the debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, increased borrowing costs associated with current debt obligations, higher interest rates in future financings, and a smaller potential pool of investors and funding sources. Finally, there is no assurance the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable. A downgrade (or negative outlook) in or withdrawal of Vectren’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital and its cost. The following table shows the current ratings assigned to certain outstanding debt by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s: Current Rating Standard Moody’s & Poor’s Utility Holdings and Indiana Gas senior unsecured debt Baa1 A- Utility Holdings commercial paper program P-2 A-2 SIGECO’s senior secured debt A-3 A The current outlook of both Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s is stable and both categorize the ratings of the above securities as investment grade. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s lowest level investment grade rating is BBB- and Baa3, respectively. -14- Table of Contents Vectren may be required to obtain additional permanent financing (1) to fund its capital expenditures, investments and debt security redemptions and maturities and (2) to further strengthen its capital structure and the capital structures of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies downgrade the Company’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, or initiate negative outlooks thereon, or withdraw Vectren’s ratings or, in each case, the ratings of its subsidiaries, it may significantly limit Vectren’s access to the debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, and the Company’s borrowing costs would increase. In addition, Vectren would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Finally, there is no assurance that the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable. Vectren operates in an increasingly competitive industry, which may affect its future earnings. The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressure faced by electric and gas utility companies. Increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of Vectren’s earnings generally and may in the future reduce its earnings from retail electric and gas sales. Currently, several states, including Ohio, have passed legislation that allows customers to choose their electricity supplier in a competitive market. Indiana has not enacted such legislation. Ohio regulation also provides for choice of commodity providers for all gas customers. In 2003, the Company implemented this choice for its gas customers in Ohio and is currently in the first of the three stage process to exit the merchant function in its Ohio service territory. The state of Indiana has not adopted any regulation requiring gas choice in the Company’s Indiana service territories; however, the Company operates under approved tariffs permitting certain industrial and commercial large volume customers to choose their commodity supplier. Vectren cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are space heating and cooling. Accordingly, its operating results may fluctuate with variability of weather. Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are sensitive to variations in weather conditions. The Company forecasts utility sales on the basis of normal weather. Since Vectren does not have a weather-normalization mechanism for its electric operations, significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on its earnings. However, the impact of weather on the gas operations in the Company’s Indiana territories has been significantly mitigated through the implementation in 2005 of a normal temperature adjustment mechanism. Additionally, the implementation of a straight fixed variable rate design over a two year period per a January 2009 PUCO order will significantly mitigate weather risk related to Ohio residential gas sales. Risks related to the regulation of Vectren’s utility businesses, including environmental regulation, could affect the rates the Company charges its customers, its costs and its profitability. Vectren’s businesses are subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities and are exposed to public policy decisions that may negatively impact the Company’s earnings. In particular, Vectren is subject to regulation by the FERC, the NERC (North American Electric Reliability Corporation), the IURC and the PUCO. These authorities regulate many aspects of its transmission and distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, and safety, and its gas marketing operations involving title passage, reliability standards, and future adequacy. In addition, these regulatory agencies approve its utility-related debt and equity issuances, regulate the rates that Vectren’s utilities can charge customers, the rate of return that Vectren’s utilities are authorized to earn, and its ability to timely recover gas and fuel costs. Further, there are consumer advocates and other parties which may intervene in regulatory proceedings and affect regulatory outcomes. The Company’s ability to obtain rate increases to maintain its current authorized rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that Vectren will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or earn its current authorized rate of return. As gas costs remain above historical levels and are more volatile, any future disallowance might be material to the Company’s operations or financial condition. Vectren’s operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. These environmental regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances in the environment. Such emissions from electric generating facilities include particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), and mercury, among others. -15- Table of Contents Environmental legislation also requires that facilities, sites and other properties associated with Vectren’s operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. The Company’s current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, claims against the Company under environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs and liabilities. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated by Vectren subject to environmental regulation, its investment in environmentally compliant equipment, and the costs associated with operating that equipment, have increased and are expected to increase in the future. Climate Change Further, there are proposals to address global climate change that would regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases and other proposals that would mandate an investment in renewable energy sources. Any future legislative or regulatory actions taken to address global climate change or mandate renewable energy sources could substantially affect both the costs and operating characteristics of the Company’s fossil fuel generating plants and possibly natural gas distribution businesses. Further, any legislation would likely impact the Company’s generation resource planning decisions. At this time and in the absence of final legislation, compliance costs and other effects associated with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or obtaining renewable energy sources remain uncertain. The Company has gathered preliminary estimates of the costs to comply with a cap and trade approach to controlling greenhouse gas emissions. A preliminary investigation demonstrated costs to comply would be significant, first to operating expenses for the purchase of allowances, and later to capital expenditures as technology becomes available to control greenhouse gas emissions. However, these compliance cost estimates are very sensitive to highly uncertain assumptions, including allowance prices. Costs to purchase allowances that cap greenhouse gas emissions should be considered a cost of providing electricity, and as such, the Company believes recovery should be timely reflected in rates charged to customers. Approximately 22 percent of electric volumes sold in 2008 were delivered to municipal and other wholesale customers. As such, the Company has some flexibility to modify the level of these transactions to reduce overall emissions and reduce costs associated with complying with new environmental regulations. From time to time, Vectren is subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. From time to time, the Company, as well as its equity investees such as ProLiance, may be subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings including matters involving compliance with state and federal laws, regulations or other matters. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Vectren’s business, prospects, results of operations, or financial condition. Vectren’s electric operations are subject to various risks. The Company’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Such operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; and natural disasters. The impact of MISO participation is uncertain. Since February 2002 and with the IURC’s approval, the Company has been a member of the MISO. The MISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains operational control over SIGECO’s electric transmission facilities as well as that of other Midwest utilities. As a result of MISO’s operational control over much of the Midwestern electric transmission grid, including SIGECO’s transmission facilities, SIGECO’s continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. Given the nature of MISO’s policies regarding use of transmission facilities, as well as ongoing FERC initiatives, and a Day 3 ancillary services market (ASM), where MISO provides bid-based regulation and contingency operating reserve markets which began on January 6, 2009, it is difficult to predict near term operational impacts. The IURC has approved the Company’s participation in the ASM and has granted authority to defer costs associated with ASM. -16- Table of Contents The need to expend capital for improvements to the regional transmission system, both to SIGECO’s facilities as well as to those facilities of adjacent utilities, over the next several years is expected to be significant. The Company timely recovers its investment in certain new electric transmission projects that benefit the MISO infrastructure at a FERC approved rate of return. Wholesale power marketing activities may add volatility to earnings. Vectren’s regulated electric utility engages in wholesale power marketing activities that primarily involve the offering of utility-owned or contracted generation into the MISO hourly and real time markets. As part of these strategies, the Company may also execute energy contracts that are integrated with portfolio requirements around power supply and delivery. Margin earned from these activities above or below $10.5 million is shared evenly with customers. These earnings from wholesale marketing activities may vary based on fluctuating prices for electricity and the amount of electric generating capacity or purchased power available, beyond that needed to meet firm service requirements. If Vectren does not accurately forecast future commodities prices or if its hedging procedures do not operate as planned in certain nonutility businesses, the Company’s net income could be reduced or the Company may experience losses. The operations of ProLiance, as well as the Company’s nonutility gas retail supply and coal mining businesses, execute forward contracts and from time to time option contracts that commit them to purchase and sell natural gas and coal in the future, including forward contracts to purchase commodities to fulfill forecasted sales transactions that may or may not occur. If the value of these contracts changes in a direction or manner that is not anticipated, or if the forecasted sales transactions do not occur, Vectren may experience losses. To lower the financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, these nonutility businesses may execute contracts that hedge the value of commodity price risk and basis risks. As part of this strategy, Vectren may utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, and/or financial forwards, futures, swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, although almost all natural gas and coal positions are hedged, either with these contracts or with Vectren’s owned coal inventory and known reserves, Vectren does not hedge its entire exposure or its positions to market price volatility. To the extent Vectren’s forecasts of future commodities prices are inaccurate, its hedging procedures do not work as planned, its coal reserves cannot be accessed or it has unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices are likely to cause the Company’s net income to be volatile and may lower its net income. The performance of Vectren’s nonutility businesses is also subject to certain risks. Execution of gas marketing strategies by ProLiance and the Company’s nonutility gas retail supply operations as well as the execution of the Company’s coal mining and energy infrastructure services strategies, and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities in the nonutility business area is subject to a number of risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the effects of weather; failure of installed performance contracting products to operate as planned; failure to properly estimate the cost to construct projects; storage field and mining property development; increased coal mining industry regulation; potential legislation that may limit CO2 and other greenhouse gases emissions; creditworthiness of customers and joint venture partners; factors associated with physical energy trading activities, including price, basis, credit, liquidity, volatility, capacity, and interest rate risks; changes in federal, state or local legal requirements, such as changes in tax laws or rates; and changing market conditions. Vectren’s nonutility businesses support its regulated utilities pursuant to service contracts by providing natural gas supply services, coal, and energy infrastructure services. In most instances, Vectren’s ability to maintain these service contracts depends upon regulatory discretion and negotiation with interveners, and there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain future service contracts, or that existing arrangements will not be revisited. -17- Table of Contents The Company’s expectation of greater earnings from coal mining could be adversely affected by a number of factors. The market for Illinois Basin coal reflects limited supply and increased demand, which has resulted in substantially higher coal prices. Contracts reflecting these higher prices are in place on 70 percent of 2009 and 2010 planned production. As a result, coal mining operations are expected to significantly contribute to future earnings. This expectation is predicated on the ability to access coal at two new company-owned mines which are currently under development; to operate existing mines in accordance with Mine Safety and Health Administration guidelines and recent interpretations of those guidelines; and to manage production costs and other risks. Other risks, which could adversely impact these future earnings, include geologic, equipment, and operational risks; sales contract negotiations and interpretations; supplier and contract miner performance; the availability of miners, key equipment and commodities; availability of transportation; and the ability to access/replace coal reserves. Vectren’s nonutility group competes with larger, full-service energy providers, which may limit its ability to grow its business. Competitors for Vectren’s nonutility businesses include regional, national and global companies. Many of Vectren’s competitors are well-established and have larger and more developed networks and systems, greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. This competition, and the addition of any new competitors, could negatively impact the financial performance of the nonutility group and the Company’s ability to grow its nonutility businesses. Vectren has significant synfuel tax credits subject to IRS audit. The Company has an 8.3 percent ownership interest in Pace Carbon Synfuels, LP (Pace Carbon). Pace Carbon produced and sold coal-based synthetic fuel using Covol technology and, according to US tax law, its members received a tax credit for every ton of coal-based synthetic fuel sold. Under current tax laws, synfuel related tax credits and fees ended on December 31, 2007. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private letter rulings which concluded that the synthetic fuel produced at the Pace Carbon facilities should qualify for tax credits. The IRS has completed tax audits of Pace Carbon for the years 1998 through 2001 without challenging tax credit calculations. Generally, the statute of limitations for the IRS to audit a tax return is three years from filing. Therefore, tax credits utilized in 2005 – 2007 are still subject to IRS examination. However, avenues remain where the IRS could challenge tax credits for the years prior to 2005. As a partner of Pace Carbon, Vectren has reflected cumulative synfuel tax credits of approximately $101 million in its consolidated results, of which approximately $45 million were generated since 2004. To date, Vectren has been in a position to utilize all of the credits generated. Catastrophic events could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, ice storms, tornados, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Workforce risks could affect Vectren’s financial results. The Company is subject to various workforce risks, including but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; that it will be unable to react to a pandemic illness; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. -18- Table of Contents 