D. Risk Factors General If you are considering purchasing our shares or American Depositary Receipts, you should carefully read and think about all the information contained in this document, including the risk factors set out below, prior to making any investment decision. Risks Relating to Our Business The state of the political and economic environment, particularly in Greece, significantly affects our performance. The majority of our operations and loan portfolio are concentrated in Greece. For the financial year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 55.7% of our total income from continuing operations, and as of December 31, 2006, 73.9% of our loans and advances to customers, were derived from our operations in Greece. As a result, the state of the Greek economy significantly affects our financial performance as well as the market price and liquidity of the Bank’s shares. To an increasing extent, our performance is affected 11 by the economic conditions and levels of economic activity in other countries in which we operate, such as Bulgaria, Romania, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (“FYROM”) and especially Turkey, from which 12.4% of our total income and 15.2% of our loan portfolio were derived in 2006. Consequently, an economic slowdown, a deterioration of conditions in Greece or other adverse changes affecting the Greek economy or the economies of these other countries could result in, among other things, higher rates of credit defaults on loans or declines in new borrowing, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Moreover, the political environment both in Greece and in other countries in which we operate may be adversely affected by events outside our control, such as changes in government policies, EU Directives in the banking sector and other areas, political instability or military action affecting Europe and/or other areas abroad and taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting Greece and the countries in which we operate or may plan to expand. Operating in Turkey carries specific macroeconomic and political risks. As a result of our acquisition of Finansbank A.S. (“Finansbank”), we are subject to operating risks in Turkey, including the following: · Turkey is a parliamentary democracy, and, although stable, is not free from political uncertainty. In particular, Turkey is in the process of seeking integration into the EU, and on October 3, 2005, accession negotiations with the EU were opened. There can be no assurance, however, that Turkey will be able to meet the criteria applicable to become a member state of the EU or that the EU will maintain its current approach regarding the candidacy of Turkey. Failure of Turkey to become an EU member state could have a negative impact on the Turkish economy and Finansbank’s operations. · Political instability in the Middle East and military operations in neighboring Iraq have increased the political and economic risks in the region. The current situation in Iraq may contribute to further tension and may result in terrorist activities in Turkey. These risks may have an impact on the Turkish economy and our operations there. · Turkey has many characteristics of a developing economy. Over the past two decades, the Turkish economy has undergone a transformation from a highly protected and regulated system to a more free market economy. The Turkish economy has, in general, responded well to this transformation, showing an overall pattern of growth from 1992 to 2006. However, the Turkish economy has experienced a succession of financial crises, including those in 2000 and 2001, as well as macroeconomic imbalances, including substantial budget deficits, significant balance of payments deficits, high inflation rates and high real interest rates. In addition, Turkey has experienced hyperinflation until recently. There can be no assurance that Turkey will not face more financial crises, which could have a negative impact on Finansbank’s operations. · Historically, the Turkish currency has been subject to significant volatility against the euro and other currencies. For example, the Turkish Lira depreciated by 18% against the euro from May 8, 2006 to June 20, 2006. However, from our acquisition of Finansbank at August 18, 2006 to June 11, 2007 the Turkish Lira has appreciated by 4.6% against the euro. These fluctuations could have a negative impact on the value of our investment in Finansbank and on our overall profitability. · Relations between Greece and Turkey have gone through periods of tension. As a result of our acquisition of Finansbank, Finansbank may be adversely affected by negative perceptions of Greece that may be held by certain of Finansbank’s customers. A significant loss of customers could have a material adverse effect on the development of our business in Turkey and on our overall profitability. 12 · We believe the general level of macroeconomic and political risk to be higher in Turkey than in other countries whose economies and banking markets are more developed and that are already members of the EU. While we believe there is potential for substantial growth in the Turkish banking market, there is no guarantee that such growth will occur or that Finansbank will be able to benefit from that growth. Adverse macroeconomic and political events, which limit economic growth in Turkey or restrict the growth of the banking market, would adversely affect Finansbank’s business and could adversely affect the Bank’s business, results of operations or financial condition. We conduct significant international activities and are expanding in emerging markets. Apart from our operations in Greece and Turkey, we have built up substantial operations in Bulgaria, Romania, FYROM, Serbia and other developing economies. Our international operations are exposed to the risk of adverse political, governmental or economic developments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, most of the countries outside Greece in which we operate are emerging markets where we face particular operating risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations also expose us to foreign currency risk. A decline in the value of the currencies in which our international subsidiaries receive their income or hold their assets relative to the value of the euro may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are actively pursuing expansion of our international market position, principally through acquisitions in SEE, Eastern Europe and the Southeastern Mediterranean region. We are currently evaluating a number of acquisition candidates in these regions and, consequently, we anticipate that our operations and our shareholders will increasingly be exposed to risks associated with acquisitions generally, as well as specific risks relating to business operations in these emerging markets. Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. As with any bank, changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates we charge on our interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could reduce our net interest income. Since the majority of our loan portfolio effectively re-prices in five years or less, rising interest rates may also result in an increase in our impairment losses on loans and advances if customers cannot refinance in a higher interest-rate environment. Further, an increase in interest rates may reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect us through, among other things, increased pre-payments on our loan and mortgage portfolio and increased competition for deposits. Likewise, a decrease in interest rates may affect our ability to issue mortgage-backed securities, securitize parts of our balance sheet or otherwise issue debt securities. Our lending margins may decline. The Greek banking industry has historically enjoyed high loan margins compared to other EU member states. However, as Greece’s economy converges with those of other countries in the European Union, margins have been declining. In addition, the adoption of rules for the enhancement of transparency in the financial services market by the Bank of Greece and recent court judgments on consumer protection are expected to result in lower margins with respect to consumer loans and credits for banks operating in Greece. A further decline in lending margins would have a negative impact on our results from operations. 13 We face significant competition from Greek and foreign banks. Deregulation has led to increased competition in the Greek banking sector. In addition, consolidation among Greek banks has led to increased competition resulting from the increased efficiency and greater resources of these combined entities. We also face competition from foreign banks, some of which have resources significantly greater than our own. Notwithstanding our leading position in Greece in certain products and services, we may not be able to continue to compete successfully with domestic and international banks in the future. Changes in the competitive environment in Turkey may adversely affect Finansbank’s business. Increased competition from existing competitors or from new entrants to the Turkish market could limit Finansbank’s ability to grow or to maintain its market share and could cause downward pressure on margins, which could adversely affect the Group’s ability to meet its strategic objectives in Turkey. At the same time, convergence with the economies of existing EU member states could result in decreasing interest rate levels in Turkey, which could lead to a decline in Finansbank’s interest margins. Our ability to reduce staff in Greece is limited. Part of our strategy is to increase profitability by making our operations more efficient. Our ability to realize one component of this, reducing staff, is limited by Greek labor laws, our company collective agreement, current employment regulation and our desire to maintain good relations with our employees. As a result, we will continue to depend on voluntary redundancies and attrition to achieve staff reductions. We will continue to assess whether we will be able to reduce our staff. However, we may not always be successful in doing so. We could be exposed to significant future pension and post-retirement benefit liabilities. In common with other large companies in Greece that are, or were, in the public sector, the employees of the Bank and certain of our subsidiaries participate in employee-managed pension schemes. The Bank makes significant contributions to these schemes. In addition, the Bank and several of our subsidiaries offer other post-retirement benefit plans, including medical benefit plans. Our consolidated net liability under these plans at December 31, 2006 was €245.7 million, determined by reference to a number of critical assumptions that are subject to potential variation. Such variation may cause us to incur significantly increased liability in respect of these obligations. For more information on these assumptions and our current obligations under pension plans, see Note 38 to the U.S. GAAP financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, included in this Annual Report. Legislation passed in 1992 provides that state-controlled employers, as well as employers that had been controlled by the state in the past (including the Bank), are not liable for annual operating deficits of their company-specific main pension funds in excess of the amount of the annual operating deficit recorded in 1992. Under this legislation, the Bank is responsible for operating deficits of its Main Pension Fund up to €25.2 million per year. The Bank has not been required to make any relevant payment to the Main Pension Fund up to this date. However, we expect that the Main Pension Fund will experience operating deficits in the future and that the Bank may be required to make payments to this Fund to cover these deficits. In addition, it is currently unclear what effect new legislation and the potential merger of the Main Pension Fund into the main state sponsored fund (“IKA”), described below, could have on the Bank’s obligations with respect to these operating deficits. In recent years, the Greek Government has introduced legislation seeking to reform the Greek pension system. In 2002, the Greek Government passed legislation under which it provided that the plans that operate in the form of public-law entities, including the Bank’s employees’ Main Pension Fund, would merge with the main state sponsored Social Security Fund (“IKA”) by 2008. In 2005 and 2006, the Greek 14 Government passed further legislation (Law 3371/2005, as amended) permitting certain bank employee main pension schemes to merge into IKA earlier than in 2008, and permitting other bank employee auxiliary pension schemes to merge with the new Insurance Fund of Bank Employees (“ETAT”). The new law provides that, in connection with the merger of auxiliary schemes with ETAT, the relevant employer shall make a payment to ETAT solely in an amount to be determined by an independent economic study commissioned by the Ministry of Finance pursuant to this legislation. In April 2006, the Bank applied under Law 3371/2005, as amended, to merge its Auxiliary Pension Fund into ETAT, and to merge the Main Pension Fund with IKA earlier than 2008. It is possible that we may make a significant cash payment to ETAT in connection with the merger of the Bank’s employee pension schemes with ETAT. The foregoing developments, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and any future legislation regarding pensions and pension liabilities or other post-retirement benefit obligations, may increase the liability of the Bank or its subsidiaries with respect to pension and other post-retirement benefit plan contributions to cover actuarial or operating deficits of those plans. The Greek banking sector is subject to strikes. Most of our employees belong to a union and the Greek banking industry has been subject to strikes, such as in June 2005 when the Union of Greek Bank Employees went on strike for 23 days over pension reform legislation then under consideration by the Greek Parliament. Moreover, strikes over issues such as pensions and wages occur sporadically. Accordingly, labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s operations. Our accounting policies relating to the treatment of delinquent loans in Greece and in some of our non-Greek subsidiaries differ from those followed by banks in certain other countries. Pursuant to Greek law, the Bank ceases to accrue interest on commercial loans in Greece when they are delinquent for 180 days, and on consumer and credit card loans when they are delinquent for 100 days. This is longer than would be the case if such loans were extended in some European countries and in the United States, where loans are generally considered non-performing if they are delinquent for 90 days. Consequently, there is a risk our financial statements may understate our level of non-performing loans and overstate our interest income relative to banks in other countries. 15 Non-performing loans have had a negative impact on our operations and may continue to do so. Non-performing loans represented approximately 3.4% of our total loan portfolio as at December 31, 2006. As a result of certain tax and legal considerations, non-performing loans generally remain on our balance sheet significantly longer than for other banks in the EU. See Item 4.E, “Business Overview—Selected Statistical Data—The Group’s Treatment of Non-Performing Loans”. Our current credit approval and monitoring procedures focus on the borrower’s cash flow and ability to repay in an effort to improve the quality of our loan assets and mitigate future provisions for non-performing loans. However, we cannot assure you that these credit approval and monitoring procedures will reduce the amount of provisions for loans that become non-performing in the future. Future provisions for non-performing loans could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, a downturn in the global economy would potentially result in a higher proportion of non-performing loans. We are exposed to credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk and insurance risk. As a result of our activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks, among the most significant of which are credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk and insurance risk. Failure to control these could result in material adverse effects on our financial performance and reputation. · Credit Risk. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss relating to the failure of a borrower to honor its contractual obligations. Credit risk arises in lending activities and also in various other activities where we are exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as our trading, capital markets and settlement activities. Counterparty default can be caused by a number of reasons, which we may not be able to accurately assess at the time we undertake the relevant activity. Moreover, we cannot assure you if and when a complete and fully reliable database of non-defaulted loans will be available to us. The database that monitors defaulting customers across the banking system in Greece (“Teiresias”), reliably monitors defaults, but not aggregate amounts of non-defaulted loans outstanding to a debtor. Consequently, the Bank is subject to the risk that its counterparties may have borrowed unsustainably large amounts from other banks. While Teiresias is in the process of setting up a database for non-defaulted loans, this database is incomplete, and we cannot assure you if and when a reliable database of non-defaulted loans will be available to us. · Market Risk. Market risk includes, but is not limited to, interest rate, foreign exchange rate, bond price and equity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect our net interest margin. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and the value of our assets in foreign currencies and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. We have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which we are also exposed. However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our financial performance and business operations. · Liquidity Risk. The inability of any bank, including us, to anticipate and provide for unforeseen decreases or changes in funding sources could have consequences on such bank’s ability to meet its obligations when they fall due. · Operational Risk. Operational risk corresponds to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether deliberate, accidental or natural occurrences. Internal processes include, but are not limited to, employees and information systems. External events include floods, fires, earthquakes or terrorist attacks, fraud by employees or others, errors by 16 employees, failure to comply with regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules or equipment failures. · Insurance Risk. Insurance risk is the risk to earnings due to mismatches between expected and actual claims. Depending on the insurance product, this risk is influenced by macroeconomic changes, changes in customer behavior, changes in public health, pandemics and catastrophic events (earthquake, industrial disaster, terrorism, etc.). We may incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We maintain trading and investment positions in debt, currency, equity and other markets. These positions could be adversely affected by volatility in financial and other markets, creating a risk of substantial losses. Volatility can also lead to losses relating to a broad range of other trading and hedging products we use, including swaps, futures, options and structured products. For further information on market risk exposures in those portfolios, you should refer to Item 4.E, “Selected Statistical Data—Credit Quality—Risk Management” below. Our hedging may not prevent losses. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we use to hedge our exposure to various types of risk in our businesses is not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. Unexpected market developments therefore may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Moreover, we do not hedge all of our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. In addition, the manner in which gains and losses resulting from certain ineffective hedges are recorded may result in additional volatility in our reported earnings. An interruption in or a breach of security in our information systems may result in lost business and other losses. As most other banks do, we rely on communications and information systems provided by third parties to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan organization systems. We cannot provide assurances that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer data and an inability to service our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. State-related entities may have an important influence on the Bank. Although the Greek Government does not directly own any of our shares, it may exercise a degree of indirect influence on us, through certain state-related entities (primarily pension funds, most of whose boards of directors are appointed by the Greek Government), which on June 11, 2007, owned shares representing approximately 17.9% of our issued share capital. See Item 7.A, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—State Interests”. Our Articles of Association do not provide any special voting rights to any class of shares or shareholders and there is no law in Greece that gives control over the Bank to the Greek Government. However, if there is not a full voting participation by all of our shareholders at a given shareholders’ meeting, these state-related entities, despite holding a minority of our total shares, may have a voting majority at such meeting. For instance, this could allow them to influence the election of members of our Board of Directors. 17 Future acquisitions may result in unexpected losses. Typically, when we acquire a banking business, we acquire all of its liabilities as well as its assets. Our acquisition procedures may fail to identify all actual or potential liabilities of a company prior to its acquisition, and we may be unable to obtain sufficient indemnities to protect ourselves against such acquired liabilities. For example, the failure to identify and accurately determine the level of credit risk or market risk to which an acquired bank is exposed prior to its acquisition may lead to unexpected losses following the acquisition, which may have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Industry Regulation of the Greek banking industry is changing. Regulation of the banking industry in Greece has changed in recent years pursuant to changes in Greek law, largely to comply with applicable EU Directives. In addition, the Bank of Greece, the central bank in Greece, has in recent years introduced regulatory changes in the Greek banking sector. In January 1999, the Bank of Greece introduced new provisioning policies that require Greek banks to make provisions depending on the status and the type of a given loan and the number of days the loan has been in arrears. These provisioning policies were amended in January 2003 and January and November 2005 and generally require Greek banks, including us, to increase their provisions for capital adequacy purposes. We cannot predict what regulatory changes may be imposed in the future, either as a result of regulatory initiatives in the European Union, by the Bank of Greece or by U.S. securities regulators. If we are required to make additional provisions or increase our reserves, as may result from the proposed New Basel Capital Accord (discussed below) and other potential regulatory changes, this could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our capital adequacy requirements may change as a result of the New Basel Capital Accord. In 1988, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision adopted capital guidelines (which are referred to in this Annual Report as the “Basel guidelines”) based on the relationship between a bank’s capital and its credit risks. The Basel guidelines have been implemented by banking regulators in most industrialized countries, including Greece. The Basel guidelines are intended to strengthen the soundness of the international banking system and reduce competitive inequality among international banks by harmonizing the definition of capital and the basis for the evaluation of asset risks and by establishing a uniform target capital adequacy ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets. In October 2005, the Council of the European Union published the final proposal for the re-casting of Directive 2000/12/EC of March 20, 2000, relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions, and Directive 1993/6/EEC of March 15, 1993, on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions. The final Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which introduced the Basel II Capital Adequacy Framework (“the New Basel Capital Accord”), have been finalized and were published in June 2006. As a result of the adoption of these Directives by the Bank of Greece, the Bank may be required to maintain higher levels of capital, which could decrease our operational flexibility and increase our financing costs. Consequently, we cannot assure you that the New Basel Capital Accord will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 18 Risks Relating to the Markets Exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on the value of our shares. The market price of our shares traded on the ATHEX is denominated in euro. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and other currencies may affect the value of the Bank’s shares in the local currency of investors in the United States and other countries that have not adopted the euro as their currency. Additionally, cash dividends on our shares are paid in euro and, therefore, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations when converted to an investor’s local currency, including US dollars. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major exchanges. The principal trading market for our shares is the ATHEX. The ATHEX is less liquid than major stock markets in Western Europe and the United States. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty assessing the past performance of the shares based on our prior trading record on the ATHEX. In 2006, average daily trading value on the ATHEX was approximately €343 million, while in the first three months of 2007 it was approximately €460 million. In comparison, average daily trading value on the London Stock Exchange was approximately €23,772 million in 2006 and approximately €31,800 million in the first three months of 2007. As at December 31, 2006, the aggregate market value of all shares listed on the ATHEX was approximately € 158 billion. The market value of our shares listed on the ATHEX on that date was €16.6 billion, representing approximately 10.5 % of the capitalization of all companies listed on the ATHEX. We cannot make assurances about the future liquidity of the market for our shares. Our share price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our shares has been subject to volatility in the past, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · results of operations of our competitors; · the condition of the Greek economy and other economies in the Eurozone; · potential or actual sales of large amounts of the Bank’s shares into the market; · our competitors’ positions in the market; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · conditions and trends in the banking sector in Greece and elsewhere in Europe; and · the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the Greek and financial services sectors). The exercise of pre-emptive rights may not be available to US holders of the ordinary shares and ADRs. Under Greek law and our Articles of Association, prior to the issuance of any new shares, we must offer holders of our existing shares pre-emptive rights to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages. These pre-emptive rights are generally transferable during the rights trading period for the related offering and may be traded on the ATHEX. U.S. holders of the ordinary shares and ADRs may not be able to receive (and trade) or exercise pre-emptive rights for any such offering of shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is 19 effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement with respect to any future offering will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ordinary shares and ADRs to exercise their pre-emptive rights and any other factors we may consider appropriate at the time. If U.S. holders of the ordinary shares and ADRs are not able to receive (and trade) or exercise pre-emptive rights granted in respect of their ordinary shares in any rights offering by us then they might not receive the economic benefit of such rights. In addition, their proportional ownership interests in the Bank will be diluted. ITEM 