D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have entered into a distribution agreement with ECI Telecom Ltd. (“ECI”) under which we appointed ECI as our exclusive distributor in significant portions of the former Soviet Union, which are important markets for us. Accordingly, we are presently dependent upon ECI for the achievement of sales in those markets. In June 2005, we entered into a distribution agreement with ECI under which we appointed ECI as our exclusive distributor in the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, territories from which we expect, in the aggregate, to derive a significant portion of our revenues. In 2008, we derived a significant portion of our revenues from sales achieved through ECI in these territories. The agreement is subject to termination by either party upon three months’ notice. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon a material breach by the other party or in the event of liquidation or similar consequences of the other party. If ECI were to terminate this agreement or if it does not succeed in obtaining orders for our products and services, for whatever reason, our business and results of operations may be seriously harmed. We depend on several relatively large customers and the loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant decrease in revenue from any of these customers, could have a disproportionate impact on our revenue and income. A substantial portion of our revenue has come from relatively large purchases by a small number of customers. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 69% of our revenues in 2008, with sales to four customers in Eastern Europe accounting for 43% of our revenues, the top two of which each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 51.5% of our revenues in 2007, with sales to three customers in the Americas accounting for 19.8% of such revenues, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of our revenues . We expect to continue to depend on sales to a small number of customers but we do not have long-term commitments from any of our top customers to purchase any specific quantities of products. We expect that our largest customers will vary from period to period. If we lose one or more large customers and fail to add new customers, our results of operations could be seriously harmed. We maintain significant cooperation with distribution channels for the sale of our products and services. If our relationship with these distribution channels is for any reason impaired, our business and results of operations may suffer. We have agreements in place with distributors and system integrators to market and sell our products and services in addition to our direct sales force. We derive about one half of our revenues from these distribution and system integrators channels. When a sale is directed through a distribution channel and not directly by us, if the sales efforts of these channels are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. In addition, there can be no assurance that in the future our channel partners will not develop or market products or services that compete with our products. Furthermore, our financial results may be affected if our contracts with distribution channels were terminated, if our relationship with channel partners was to deteriorate or if the financial condition of our channel partners was to weaken. Volatility experienced by telecommunications service providers may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Current weakness in the U.S. and global markets can result in a decline of capital investment by telecommunications service providers, impact on our sales and may affect the pricing of our products. It may also affect our ability to keep our operating expenses in line with any reduction in revenues. This may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the effects of general global, economic and market conditions. The longer and deeper impact of the current global macroeconomic crisis is causing uncertainty in the telecommunications market. This has resulted and might further result in a decline in capital investment by telecommunications service providers. Such decline in capital expenditures has had and could further have a negative impact on our business by reducing the number and the value of new contracts we are able to sign and may harm our revenues and results of operation. Furthermore, since a substantial portion of our operating expenses consist of salaries, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses in line with any reduction in revenues or may elect not to do so for business reasons. We will need to continue to generate increased revenues and manage our costs to achieve profitability. Industry downturn may increase our inventories, decrease our revenues, result in additional pressure on the price of our products and prolong the time until we are paid, all of which would have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and on our cash flow from operations. Increased expense levels will harm our business if our revenues do not grow. A significant portion of our expenses are comprised of fixed costs such as payrolls, rent for facilities and vehicles expense, which we cannot decrease in the short term even if our revenues were to decline. Accordingly, if our revenues do not grow, it will be difficult for us to decrease costs at a rate that is commensurate with the decrease in revenues. This will result in an increase in operating loss or decrease in operating income in the short term. In an effort to bring fixed costs more in line with our lower than anticipate revenues, our management adopted at the end of 2008 a series of proactive efficiency measures including a reduction in management and employee salaries, the downsizing of our workforce, cost efficiencies in the professional service functions and cost efficiencies with respect to our other operating expenses. Such measures are expected to reduce our expenses in 2009. If, however, revenues decrease or do not meet expectations for a particular period, and we are not able to reduce our expenses in the short term, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 6 Because most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars but a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be seriously harmed by currency fluctuations and inflation. Furthermore, as we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency, but our revenues are sometimes generated in other currencies, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such other currencies may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have operations throughout the world, the majority of our revenue and approximately 50% of our operating costs in 2008 were denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, a significant portion of our expenses is in NIS. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the NIS and the U.S. dollar may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, throughout the course of 2008, the average exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS reflected devaluation of the U.S. dollar by almost seven percent, thereby adversely affecting our dollar-measured results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected if we are unable to hedge against currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. An increasing portion of our revenues is now denominated in other non-U.S. currencies, and in the future additional revenues may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such other currencies. Moreover, as currently our revenues are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause customers to default on payment. The payment cycle for our receivables may reduce the cash we have available to operate and expand our business. Our contracts may provide for payments under a variety of payment schedules. For example, we may receive a deposit prior to shipment, a partial payment upon delivery and final payment after 180 or 360 days from delivery. Also, we may collect payments due to specific project milestones, upon specific customization and development progress. In the last few years, and recently due to impact of the current global macroeconomic crisis, we are receiving an increased amount of requests from our customers for even longer payment terms and alternative payment models such as revenue sharing based compensation proposals. Such payment cycles and alternative payment models may adversely affect the cash resources available to operate and expand our business. The market for our products is highly competitive. Furthermore, because some of our competitors have much greater resources than we have or may have a lower cost structure than we have, it may be difficult for us to compete with them, as well as to achieve and maintain profitability. We may also face competition from our customers. Competition in our industry is intense, and we expect it to continue. To compete effectively, we have, at times, been required to grant substantial discounts on our products, especially as some of our competitors utilize aggressive pricing strategies. Lower prices and the loss of sales to our competitors would reduce our ability to generate revenue, which would harm our business. Some of the companies that compete with us have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are among the largest and most capitalized software and hardware companies in the world. Also, some of our competitors have located their research and development facilities in countries where labor costs for engineers and other experienced personnel are far lower than in Israel, where our research and development facilities are located. This has increased the pressure to reduce pricing on our products. In some situations, we may not be able to compete successfully because of these factors, and this may adversely affect our ability to achieve new sales. We may also face competition from our customers. Some of our customers are developing their own solutions internally or through strategic alliances. As a result, solutions developed by our customers may replace and/or compete with products that we currently sell to them or that we may seek to sell to them in the future. Consolidation of competitors may adversely affect our sales and operating results. In recent years, our industry has experienced consolidation of solution providers, including consolidation of some of our direct competitors. This may result in the creation of one or more competitors possessing more significant market share than we possess. Consolidated competitors may be able to achieve significant advantages over us in terms of economies of scale, and therefore, may be able to compete against us more effectively. Consolidation can also adversely affect our business and operating results for other reasons, such as operators’ preferring to transact with consolidated solution providers for various reasons, such as their larger customer base, and larger sales, marketing and support organizations. We have previously experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations, which resulted, and may continue to result in the future, in our failing to meet expectations and could cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. In recent years we have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, and we may likewise experience significant fluctuations in our annual results of operations. Factors which have contributed and may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations include among others: — changes in customer capital spending budgets and allocations throughout the year; — trends in customer purchasing; — the length of our sales process; — the size and timing of orders; — our relationships with, and sales through, our channel partners; — competitive market conditions, including the pricing actions of our customers; 7 — timing and success of new products and new technologies introduced by us or our competitors; — our ability to integrate the technology and operations of acquired businesses with our own business; — regional or global economic and political conditions; — changes in our operating expenses and extraordinary expenses; — impairment of goodwill and intangibles; — the percentage of sales for which we pay sales commissions; and — fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Unfavorable changes in the factors listed above, many of which are outside of our control, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, our operating results for 2008 were lower than initially anticipated primarily due to three factors: (i) the longer and deeper impact of the global macroeconomic crisis on the Company’s activities, which was at least partially reflected in a lengthening of our sale cycles; (ii) the delay in our recognition of revenues from a major project; and (iii) the impact of substantial currency exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may again be below our expectations, or the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which may cause our share price to drop. We could be subject to warranty claims, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. We typically provide one-year warranty programs with respect to our products. Our warranty generally provides for the repair or replacement of products with defects in materials or workmanship or that fail to meet agreed-upon specifications. Any significant product returns or warranty claims could adversely affect our results of operations. We offer sophisticated products that may contain software with undetected errors. In addition, new products may experience failures when first introduced, and both current and future products may experience failures as new versions are released. We rely to a large extent on our reputation among industry leaders in conducting our sales efforts. Such product returns or warranty claims and the associated negative publicity, could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and hurt our business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. In particular, we may not be effective in integrating our acquisitions or succeed in making additional acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue mergers and acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. For example, in April 2008 we acquired substantially all the assets of Compwise Ltd., an Israel-based company and a provider of business analytic solutions for telecommunication operators. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we acquired two sister companies engaged in the development and marketing of revenue assurance solutions. Also, during 2006 and 2008, we carried out due diligence processes for potential acquisition opportunities. Eventually, we decided not to complete these acquisitions. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business, technology or product may absorb significant management attention and involves large expenditure of funds that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and/or of investing in new technologies may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation, the failure of the acquired business to further our strategies, the inability to successfully integrate or commercialize acquired technologies or otherwise realize anticipated synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment will be realized. Future acquisitions or investments contemplated and/or consummated could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities as part of the consideration for such acquisitions or investments, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have limited experience with respect to operating acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or effective in integrating such acquisitions into our existing business. If the operation of the business of any future acquisitions disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Developments affecting telecommunication service providers, such as mergers, can adversely affect us. Developments in the telecommunications industry, such as the impact of general global economic conditions, continued industry consolidation, the formation of alliances among network operators and service providers, and changes in the regulatory environment have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our existing or potential customers. These conditions have reduced the high growth rates that the telecommunications industry had previously experienced, and have caused the market value, financial results and prospects, and capital spending levels of many telecommunications companies to decline or degrade. In recent years, the telecommunications industry has experienced significant financial pressures that have caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital-intensive projects and have led to numerous restructurings and bankruptcies. Recent telecommunications company mergers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as existing or potential customers may be purchased or two customers may combine operations in a manner that results in a decline in repeat sales by us, reduces the number of licenses we can sell to the combined entity or cause us to have to repeat significant pre-sale efforts in respect of one or more of the merger parties. 8 Due in part to the deepening global macroeconomic crisis, many of our customers require a lengthy, detailed and comprehensive sale cycle, which may impact the timing of our revenues and result in us expending significant resources on sales efforts. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of products and related services for telecommunications service providers. The purchase of our products may represent a relatively significant capital expenditure for our customers. As a result, our products generally undergo a lengthy evaluation and purchase process before we can sell them. In recent years, reflecting in part the burgeoning global macroeconomic crisis, our customers have been conducting a more stringent and detailed evaluation of our products, and decisions are subject to additional levels of internal review. As a result, the evaluation process has significantly lengthened. This evaluation process generally takes between six and 18 months. Besides the global macroeconomic climate, which invariably impacts (whether directly or collaterally) the speed of our customers’ approval process, the following specific factors, among others, affect the length of such process: — the time involved for our customers to determine and announce their specifications; — the time required for our customers to process approvals for purchasing decisions; — the complexity of the products involved; — the technological priorities and budgets of our customers; and — the need for our customers to obtain or comply with any required regulatory approvals. In 2008, partially due to the emergence of the current global macroeconomic crisis, our clients’ approval processes and our sales cycles lengthened further, and our revenues and overall economic results were adversely affected as a result. If customers continue to subject our products to lengthy evaluation processes, continue to delay project approval, delays lengthen further, or if such continued delays result in the eventual cancellation of any sale opportunities, it could harm our business and results of operations. We depend upon our Bulgarian subsidiary for the performance of certain of our European professional services and operations. Failure to manage and expand our Bulgarian activities may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have outsourced a portion of our professional services and operations in Europe to a subcontractor in Bulgaria. On April 1, 2008, our contract with this subcontractor was terminated and the employees of this subcontractor are now directly employed by ECtel Bulgaria EOOD, our newly established subsidiary. We intend to strengthen our position in Eastern Europe, among other regions, through the operations of our Bulgarian subsidiary. Accordingly, our future success in this region will depend in part on our ability to manage and expand our Bulgarian subsidiary’s activities. In addition, as Bulgaria joined the European Market on January 1, 2007, the cost of our Bulgarian operations increased and it is likely that such cost will increase further over time, as was the case with companies in other countries joining the European Market. We depend upon subcontracted outsourcers for the performance of certain of our European professional services and operations. The failure of these outsourcers to meet our quality or performance requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since November 2008, we have outsourced a portion of our professional services and operations in Europe to a subcontractor in the Ukraine. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue, expand and manage the use of outsourced subcontracting resources for various services and operations, even beyond our current utilization. There are certain risks entailed in these practices, including but not limited to: the continued availability of these resources is not assured; the potential for migration of some expertise to a contractor outside of our organization; and our policies relating to protection of intellectual property rights may be harder or not possible to institute, manage or enforce vis-à-vis a subcontractor organization. We depend on single suppliers for some of our product components, including key product components in our legacy probing devices. If any of these suppliers experiences delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity or is unwilling to continue providing these components, it could adversely affect our business and operating results. We utilize single suppliers for some of our product components, including critical components needed for some of our products. We cannot control the delivery schedule for these components. In the event that any of these suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, or fail to do so in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. Any disruption, or any other interruption of a supplier’s ability to provide components to us, could result in delays in making product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as suppliers discontinue their products, or modify them in manners incompatible with our current use, or use manufacturing processes and tools that cannot be easily migrated to other vendors, we could have significant delays in product availability, which would have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our inventory and alternative sources of supply would be sufficient to avoid a material interruption or delay in production and in availability of spare parts. ECI, our former major shareholder is the owner of certain intellectual property rights related to our legacy probing devices. While ECI currently permits our supplier to use its technology required for production of these components, we cannot assure that such permission will not be withheld by ECI in the future. To the extent ECI will withhold its permission, it has an obligation to supply these components to us under a components supply agreement executed between our Company and ECI in February 2004, which agreement has an initial period of seven years. In addition, in connection with our sale to Verint Systems Limited of our government surveillance business, we agreed to supply some of these components for our legacy probing devices to Verint for a period of seven years. Any problems with the supply of such components, which may not be under our control, that cause us to breach our obligations to Verint, could expose us to claims by Verint. Such claims could harm our financial condition. 9 Implementation of new technologies by telecom carriers may result in a decline in demand for our products. Technologies, such as Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”), are facilitating the use of cheaper communications media and new and reduced pricing schemes which are not entirely based on usage level and records, such as flat rates, by some telecom operators. Such operators may be less inclined to invest in high-end solutions like ours, which by their nature monitor the usage records. Moreover, since these technologies enable service providers to offer relatively low calling rates to subscribers, this may reduce the incentive to commit telecom fraud. This, in turn, would reduce the need among service providers to constantly monitor revenue related processes and thereby reduce the demand for anti-fraud solution like ours. This trend may harm our revenues and results of operation. Because the telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological and other changes, our success depends on our ability to continually develop technologically advanced products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. The telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances and frequent product introductions and enhancements. We believe that our future success will largely depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and to successfully develop and market products on a cost-effective and timely basis. The technologies applicable to our products include applications capable of analyzing and processing data based on accepted telephony standards and protocols. If other technological standards and protocols gain broad market acceptance, we will be required to redesign our existing products or design new products that are able to view and analyze networks based on these new standards and protocols. For example, the types of fraudulent schemes to which service providers are subject change with the emergence of new technologies, networks and other developments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing new applications or systems that will respond to technological change Furthermore, the market in which we operate is highly competitive and unless we continue to enhance the functionality of our products and add additional features, our competitiveness may be harmed. We do business with companies located in countries around the world, which subjects us to additional risks. If these risks materialize, our business will be materially adversely affected. Because of the global nature of our business, we are exposed to the risk of economic or political instability in countries where our customers are located, particularly in developing countries such as countries in Africa and in Central and South America. In addition, there are often longer sales and payment cycles in developing countries, as well as greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. We face additional risks from our international operations including: — difficulties of obtaining licenses, the imposition of tariffs and the effects of other trade barriers; — difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; — potentially adverse tax consequences; — laws and business practices favoring local competitors; — costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries; — compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; — political instability; — variance and unexpected changes in local laws and regulations; and — imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon our protection of our proprietary technology, including both software and hardware components of our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We have several registered patents and trademarks as well as patent and trademark applications covering some of our technology and are in the process of preparing and filing additional patent and trademark applications. We cannot assure you that any of these applications will be granted. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect us from the claims of others. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Moreover, competitors and potential competitors may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our product line or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology for these or any other reasons, our business may suffer. Because our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business will suffer if we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. Many participants in the telecommunications industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to pursue litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. All of our products rely on technology that could be the subject of existing patents or patent applications of third parties. We have agreed to indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future with respect to our current or future products. These claims may require us to enter into license arrangements or result in protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. Any necessary licenses may not be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop selling our products in some or all countries, and our business would be seriously harmed. 10 Our products contain certain hardware components. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels of these components to meet anticipated demand. If we cannot predict orders accurately, our inventory may become obsolete and our financial performance may be harmed. Our solutions consist of both software and hardware components. The timing and volume of our customers’ orders are generally difficult to forecast for each quarter, as a substantial majority of our sales of hardware components are booked and shipped in the same quarter pursuant to purchase orders. We purchase the hardware components of our solutions from a small number of manufacturers, some of which may not always timely fill our orders. We must therefore maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products increases the risk of inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs. A shift in demand could also result in inventory write-offs, which could harm our financial performance. We may be subject to European regulations that will require us to use components consisting of environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to telecommunications industry regulations published in territories in which we are selling our hardware products, requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, European telecommunications industry regulations require telecom equipment suppliers to eliminate the lead solders from their products by 2010. Compliance with European Community directives may require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of certain of our hardware products or find other complying alternatives. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for third-party components that comply with this directive. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could harm our ability to sell our products within the European Community and in any other countries that may adopt this directive, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals or cannot hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our business and future growth and success largely depend on the managerial and technical skills of members of our management. If one or more of the members of the senior management team are unable or unwilling to continue in our employ, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, motivate, and retain other highly-qualified personnel. There is competition in Israel for the services of highly-qualified technical and engineering personnel. There is also considerable competition for the services of experienced sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able either to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel if and when needed. We are dependent upon Verint to perform our remaining obligations under certain contracts with government customers on which we remain the named party. In connection with the sale to Verint of our government surveillance business, we remain the named party on a number of contracts which required additional performance, including for warranty and other remaining services. With respect to these contracts, the customers consented to the performance by Verint of all the remaining obligations of ECtel under the contracts. The customers also agreed to communicate directly with Verint in connection with the performance of the contracts by Verint. However, we still may be liable to the customer in the event that Verint does not perform as required under these agreements, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer if these customers pursue claims against us. In the event that we suffer damages as a result of Verint’s non-performance, we may pursue our indemnification rights against Verint. However, Verint may not have the ability to satisfy our claims. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal offices and manufacturing facilities and many of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, since September 2000. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel and Hamas, and significant hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will have no impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. In addition, our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers or directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, since we are incorporated and headquartered in Israel and upon our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in NIS, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in NIS at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in NIS ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, and therefore depress the price of our stock. The Israeli Companies Law – 1999 includes restrictions on mergers, such as special voting requirements, the ability of creditors to seek court intervention to delay or prevent a merger and mandatory waiting periods. In addition, under certain circumstances, the Companies Law requires that acquisitions be performed via tender offer. For more information, see “Item 10B–Memorandum and Articles of Association–Mergers and Acquisitions Under Israeli Law.” The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We are entitled to tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as approved enterprises. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions stipulated in applicable law and in our specific approvals, including making specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. From time to time, we submit requests for expansion of our approved enterprise programs or for new programs to be designated as approved enterprises. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of difficult economic conditions in Israel. In addition, in March 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for investments that qualify for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. In addition, if we fail for any reason to meet the conditions of an approved investment program, our future tax benefits under the Israeli law for capital investments will be materially reduced. In light of our carry forward losses, we are currently not in a taxable position in Israel. We received an approval in principle from the Investment Center with respect to the sale of our government surveillance business to Verint in March 2004. If the Investment Center declines, for any reason, to grant us the final approval, our tax benefits under Israeli law will be materially reduced, see “Item 10E–Taxation–Israeli Taxation.” The termination or reduction of these tax benefits could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Because we received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions, and certain of our large shareholders are required to undertake to observe such restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, or the Office of the Chief Scientist (OCS), for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. According to Israeli law, any products developed with grants from the OCS are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay the OCS up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay such grants at a quicker rate. Furthermore, the transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than 10% of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable would be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, and as a result the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Our ordinary shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. One of Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements is that the minimum bid price of a listed security must be at least $1.00. Nasdaq has temporarily suspended this requirement through July 19, 2009. Our ordinary shares have traded below $1.00 per share since November 2008. If Nasdaq reinstates the minimum bid price rule and we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement at that time, Nasdaq could delist our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Global Market. Such delisting would likely have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our ordinary shares and, as a result, the market price for our ordinary shares would likely become more volatile and decline significantly. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Companies such as ours, which operate in technology industries, are particularly vulnerable to class action litigation as a result of the volatility of their stock prices. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. On October 19, 2004, a class action complaint (the “Class Action Complaint”), Leumi Gemel Ltd. v. ECtel Ltd., et al., Case No. 8:04-CV-03380-RWT, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Named as defendants are ECtel Ltd., ECI Telecom Ltd., and certain of ECtel’s directors and officers. The Class Action Complaint alleges that the defendants violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, by making false and misleading statements in the Company’s SEC filings and press releases during a period beginning April 24, 2001, and lasting through April 2, 2003. The claims are purportedly brought on behalf of all persons who purchased our stock during that period. The plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages against the defendants, as well as attorneys’ fees and costs. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the class action complaint. At a hearing on this motion held on July 17, 2006, the court granted our motion to dismiss the class action complaint. Following the dismissal, the plaintiff filed a motion to further amend the class action complaint. We responded by requesting that the court deny the motion to amend. On March 6, 2007, the court denied the plaintiff’s motion to further amend the class action. Plaintiff filed an appeal of the district court’s orders with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. After briefing in the Fourth Circuit but before oral argument or any decision thereon, the parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve the litigation. The parties have executed a stipulation of settlement documenting their agreement. The District Court of Maryland held its hearing on preliminary approval of stipulation of settlement and granted preliminary approval. The hearing on the final approval of stipulation of settlement has been scheduled for July 27, 2009. 13 Our share price has decreased significantly during 2008 and could continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price has decreased significantly during 2008. Numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, have caused and may continue to cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: — shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts and by us; — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; — announcements concerning us, our affiliates, or our competitors; — the introduction of new telecommunications services; — changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; — failure to successfully execute our growth strategy through the acquisition of other businesses; — market conditions in our industry and the global economy in general; and — the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector). In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. U.S. holders of our ordinary shares may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a substantial risk that we are a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to our U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and could cause a reduction in the value of our ordinary shares. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if (after taking into account certain look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our corporate subsidiaries) either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for a taxable year (determined on a quarterly basis) produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be a passive asset, which produces passive income. The market capitalization approach has generally been used to determine the fair market value of the assets of a publicly traded corporation, though other valuations methods may available for these purposes. If we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules will apply to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, U.S. holders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules. U.S. holders should carefully read “Item 10E–Taxation–Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks (including the PFIC rules) related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. 