ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company with a limited operating history, which makes it more difficult to predict whether we will be able to successfully commercialize our technology and implement our business plan. Our auditors have included a “going concern” emphasis paragraph in their audit report. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history, and our principal technologies and products are not yet commercially proven. Accordingly, there is a limited operating history upon which to base an assumption that we will be able to successfully implement our business plan. In addition to this, our auditors have included a “going concern” emphasis paragraph in their audit report relating to our financial statements as of December 31, 2007, indicating that as a result of significant recurring losses, substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. 15 Our technologies are not fully developed, are commercially untested, and therefore, the successful development and commercialization of our technologies remain subject to significant uncertainty. Our activities, to date, have involved the research and development of our crude oil desulphurization and upgrading technologies and the construction of a test facility. We have not yet generated any material revenues since commencing these activities in January 1999. Commercial application of our technologies will require further investment, development and testing. We may be unable to complete the commercialization of our technologies on a timely basis, or at all. Development and commercialization of a new technology, such as our Sonocracking™ process, is inherently subject to significant risks. Accordingly, we cannot assure that our technology will perform in a commercial scale setting as indicated in initial laboratory or small scale testing or that we will be able to successfully commercialize our technology. Introducing and enhancing a new technology involves numerous technical challenges, substantial financial and personnel resources, and often takes many years to complete. We cannot be certain that we will be successful at commercializing our technology on a timely basis, or in accordance with milestones, if at all. In addition, we cannot be certain that, once our processing unit is made operational in a commercial setting, the unit will perform as expected. Our technology is complex and, despite further vigorous testing and quality control procedures, may contain undetected errors. Any inability to timely deliver a commercially viable unit could have a negative effect on our business, revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and have not generated material revenues to date, and we are unable to predict when or if we will generate material revenues on a sustained basis or achieve profitability. We have not generated any material revenues, and we have experienced significant operating losses in each period since we commenced our current line of business in January 1999. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $120 million. These losses are principally associated with the research and development of our Sonocracking™ units for desulphurization and upgrading crude oil and other petroleum products, research and development of ultrasound technologies, development of pre-production prototypes and related marketing activity, and we expect to continue to incur expenses in the future for development, commercialization and sales and marketing activities related to the commercialization of our technology. We cannot predict when or to what extent our technology or resulting products will begin to produce revenues on a sustained basis, or whether we will ever reach profitability. If we are unable to achieve significant levels of revenue on a sustained basis, our losses will continue. If this occurs, we may be compelled to significantly curtail our business activities or suspend or cease our operations. We may not have sufficient working capital in the future, and we may be unable to obtain additional capital, which could result in the curtailment, suspension or cessation of our business activity. If we obtain additional financing, you may suffer significant dilution. In the past we have financed our research and development activities primarily through debt and equity financings from our principal shareholder, Rudolf W. Gunnerman, and equity financings from third parties. Our existing capital resources will not be sufficient to fund our cash requirements for the next 12 months based upon current levels of expenditures and anticipated needs. We expect that additional working capital will be required in the future. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, as discussed in Note 1 to our financial statements. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to implement our business plan and raise additional funds. The extent and timing of our future capital requirements will depend upon several factors, including: 16 · Continued progress toward commercialization of our technologies; · Rate of progress and timing of product commercialization activities and arrangements, including the implementation of our venture with Fujairah Oil Technology; and · Our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with others for product development, commercialization, marketing, sales and manufacturing. Accordingly, our capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned, and we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Sources of additional capital, other than from future revenues (for which we presently have no commitments) include proceeds from the exercise of warrants issued to the investors in the March 2007 and November 2007 placements, funding through collaborative arrangements, licensing arrangements and debt and equity financings. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms when needed. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our technology, or respond to unanticipated requirements. If we are unable to secure such additional financing, we may have to curtail, suspend or cease all or a portion of our business activities. Further, if we issue equity securities, our shareholders may experience severe dilution of their ownership percentages, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Commercial activities by us in foreign countries could subject us to political and economic risks which could impair future potential sources of revenue or impose significant costs. We are currently engaged in activities outside the U.S., including the United Arab Emirates, Austria, Indonesia, Canada, South America and South Korea, and we expect to continue to do so in the future, either directly, or through partners, licensees or other third parties, in connection with the commercialization of our technologies. The transaction of business by us in a foreign country, either directly or through partners, licensees or other third parties, may subject us, either directly or indirectly, to a number of risks, depending upon the particular country. These risks may include, with respect to a particular foreign country: · Government activities that may result in the curtailment of contract rights; · Government activities that may restrict payments or limit the movement of funds outside the country; · Confiscation or nationalization of assets; · Confiscatory or other adverse foreign taxation regulations; · Acts of terrorism or other armed conflicts and civil unrest; · Currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; and · Trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the U.S. or a foreign country. Many of these risks may be particularly significant in some oil producing regions, such as the Middle East and South America. We may have difficulty managing our growth. We expect to experience significant growth if we are successful in our efforts to rollout our Sonocracking™ units in Fujairah, United Arab Emirates and other parts of the world. This growth exposes us to increased competition, greater operating, marketing and support costs and other risks associated with entry into new markets and the development of new products, and could place a strain on our operational, human and financial resources. To manage growth effectively, we must: 17 · Attract and retain qualified personnel; · Upgrade and expand our infrastructure so that it matches our level of activity; · Manage expansion into additional geographic areas; and · Continue to enhance and refine our operating and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we will not be successful in executing our business plan, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our technologies contemplates collaborations with third parties, making us dependent on them for our success. We do not possess all of the capabilities to fully commercialize our desulphurization and upgrading technologies on our own. Our success may depend upon partnerships and strategic alliances with third parties, such as our joint venture with Fujairah Oil Technology. Collaborative agreements involving the development or commercialization of technology such as ours generally pose such risks as: · Collaborators may not pursue further development or commercialization of products resulting from collaborations or may elect not to continue or renew research and development programs; · Collaborators may delay development activities, underfund development activities, stop or abandon development activities, repeat or conduct new testing or require changes to our technologies for testing; · Collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our future products; · The terms of our agreements with collaborators may not be favorable to us; · A collaborator may not commit enough resources, thereby delaying commercialization or limiting potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; · Collaborations may be terminated by the collaborator for any number of reasons, including failure of the technologies or products to perform in line with the collaborator’s objectives or expectations, and such termination could subject us to increased capital requirements if we elected to pursue further activities. We have very limited manufacturing, marketing and sales experience, which could result in delays to the implementation of our business plan. We have very limited manufacturing, marketing and product sales experience. We cannot ensure you that contract manufacturing services will be available in sufficient capacity to supply our product needs on a timely basis. If we decide to build or acquire commercial scale manufacturing capabilities, we will require additional management and technical personnel and additional capital. We rely on third parties to provide certain components for our products. If our vendors fail to deliver their products in a reliable, timely and cost-efficient manner, our business will suffer. We currently depend on relationships with third parties such as contract manufacturing companies and suppliers of components critical for the product we are developing in our business. If these providers do not produce these products on a timely basis, if the products do not meet our specifications and quality control standards, or if the products are otherwise flawed, we may have to delay product delivery, or recall or replace unacceptable products. In addition, such failures could damage our reputation and could adversely affect our operating results. As a result, we could lose potential customers and any revenues that we may have at that time may decline dramatically. 18 We are highly dependent on our key personnel to manage our business, and because of competition for qualified personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel. The loss of key personnel or the inability to retain new personnel could delay the implementation of our business plan. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued services of our senior management and other key employees, and our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced scientific, technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. None of our senior management or key personnel have long term employment agreements with us. We do not maintain key person insurance on any members of our management team or other personnel. The loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract additional qualified employees could delay the implementation of our business plan, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may experience increased compensation costs in order to attract and retain skilled employees. Because the market for products utilizing our technologies is still developing and is highly competitive, we may not be able to compete successfully in the highly competitive and evolving desulphurization and upgrading market. The market for products utilizing our technologies is still developing and there can be no assurance that our products will ever achieve market acceptance. Because we presently have no customers for our business, we must convince petroleum producers, refiners and distributors to utilize our products or license our technology. To the extent we do not achieve market penetration, it will be difficult for us to generate meaningful revenue or to achieve profitability. The success of our business is highly dependent on our patents and other proprietary intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect and enforce our patents and other intellectual property. Our commercial success will depend to a large degree on our ability to protect and maintain our proprietary technology and know-how and to obtain and enforce patents on our technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secrets law to protect our intellectual property. Although we have filed multiple patent applications for our technology, and we have seven issued patents in the U.S., our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued pursuant to our current or future patent applications or that patents issued pursuant to such applications will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Also, we cannot ensure you that the rights granted under any such patents will provide the competitive advantages we anticipate or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. Moreover, we cannot ensure you that third parties will not infringe, design around, or improve upon our proprietary technology. We also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventor's rights agreements with our employees and third parties. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. 19 We are a new entrant in our business and we face significant competition. We are a new entrant in the market for development and sale of upgrading and sulphur reduction technology to the oil industry. We face well-established and well-funded competition from a number of sources. Our competitors in this area include manufacturers of conventional refinery desulphurization equipment and major integrated oil companies and oil refineries. Most of these entities have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, sales and service resources than we do. Because of their experience and greater research and development capabilities, our competitors might succeed in developing and commercializing competing technologies or products which would render our technologies or products obsolete or non-competitive. Regulatory developments could have adverse consequences for our business. The regulatory environment that pertains to our business is complex, uncertain and changing rapidly. Although we anticipate that existing and proposed governmental mandates regulating the sulphur content of petroleum products will continue to provide an impetus for customers to utilize our Sonocracking™ technology for desulphurization, it is possible that the application of existing environmental legislation or regulations or the introduction of new legislation or regulations could substantially impact our ability to launch and promote our proprietary technologies, which could in turn negatively impact our business. Rules and regulations implementing federal, state and local laws relating to the environment will continue to affect our business, including laws and regulations which may apply to the use and operation of our Sonocracker™ units, and we cannot predict what additional environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to products or activities to which they have not been applied previously. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. To date, environmental regulation has not had a material adverse effect on our business, which is presently in the development stage. However, future activities may subject us to increased risk when as we seek to commercialize our units by reason of the installation and operation of these units at customer sites. We intend to address these risks by imposing contractual responsibility, whenever practicable, on third party users for maintaining necessary permits and complying with applicable environmental laws governing or related to the operation of our units. However, these measures may not fully protect us against environmental risks. Furthermore, although we may be entitled to contractual indemnification from third parties for environmental compliance liabilities, this would not preclude direct liability by us to governmental agencies or third parties under applicable federal and state environmental laws. We are presently unable to predict the nature or amount of additional costs or liabilities which may arise in the future related to environmental regulation. However, such future liabilities and costs could be material. 20 We may be sued for product liability, which could result in liabilities which exceed our available assets. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made with the use of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. We currently have no product liability insurance. When we attempt to obtain product liability insurance, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit the commercialization of products developed by us. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our available assets. We are the defendant in several lawsuits, in which an adverse judgment against us could result in liabilities which exceed our available assets. Details of the current status of outstanding litigation involving the Company are available herein, under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” An adverse judgment in any of these cases could result in material harm to our business or result in liabilities that exceed our available assets. Our stock price is volatile, which increases the risk of an investment in our common stock. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile, ranging from a sales price of $0.21 in October 2003, to a sales price of over $19.00 per share in January of 2006. The price has changed dramatically over short periods with decreases of more than 50% and increases of more than 100% percent in a single day. An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and, consequently, is subject to significant risk. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 