D. Risk Factors If you are considering purchasing our ordinary shares, preference shares or American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"), you should carefully read and consider all the information contained in this document, including the risk factors set out below, prior to making any investment decision. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the value and trading price of our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs may decline, resulting in a loss of all or a part of any investment in our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs. Furthermore, the risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk factors which are not currently known or are currently believed to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis Uncertainty resulting from the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis has had and is likely to continue to have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the financial year ended December 31, 2013, 41.2% of the Group's net interest income before provision for loan losses as of December 31, 2013, 68.1% of our loans, were derived from our domestic operations. In addition, following the completion of the PSI in March and April 2012 and the Hellenic Republic's debt buyback program in December 2012, our holdings of EUR 4,273 million of Greek government bonds and Greek treasury bills represented, as at December 31, 2013, 4.0% of our total assets and 22.0% of our trading and investment debt securities. Accordingly, the quality of our assets, our financial condition and our results of operations are heavily dependent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Greece. In its sixth year of recession, the Greek economy continued to face substantial macroeconomic pressures. Over the past four years, the Hellenic Republic has undertaken significant structural measures to restore competitiveness and promote economic growth in the country through the Program agreed with the IMF, the ECB and the EU (collectively, the "Troika") for implementation of fiscal adjustment policies and growth enhancing structural reforms. Pressures arising from the ongoing fiscal effort to achieve a large primary budget surplus in the Greek government (the "Government") budget including policy fatigue and potential emergence of social tensions, potential delays in Eurozone decisions to ensure Greek public debt sustainability and sufficient medium- to long-term financing for the country, compounded by remaining deep-rooted structural constraints, could slow or reverse the economic recovery and fuel additional uncertainty. More specifically: •Despite the successful completion of the debt buyback program in December 2012, the notable progress in fiscal deficit reduction and the adjustment in the labor market and external balance, the Greek economy continues to face substantial macroeconomic challenges. Uncertainty about debt sustainability and the ability for a timely transition to a new sustainable export-oriented model of economic growth, which will boost fiscal consolidation and improve public debt dynamics, remains high. 14 Table of Contents •The need to impose additional austerity measures in the form of additional corrective spending cuts to offset potential slippages in the implementation of the 2014 Government budget—in view of weaker-than-expected Government revenue performance for most of 2013 and a continued drop in social security system revenue—could delay the economic recovery, resulting in the weakening economic sentiment, declining liquidity, reduced private spending and a further decline in financial and real estate asset valuations. •Funding provided to the Hellenic Republic under the Program is insufficient to cover the Hellenic Republic's financing needs from the third quarter of 2015 onwards, and the shortfall could increase if privatization revenue fall short of expectations. In this respect, it is not certain whether funding will be increased by the EU and the IMF or whether there will be further modifications in Greek public debt to reduce further debt servicing costs as this depends on Greece's performance under the Program and potential agreement on new conditionality. In addition, the IMF is considered to have exhausted its statutory limits in providing financing to Greece. Moreover, the views currently expressed in Europe, as evidenced by last year's events in Cyprus, suggest that a broader spectrum of creditors could be bailed in to cover such financing needs, and the prospect of such a development could, in itself, be destabilizing for the Greek economy. •According to reports by the Troika, Greece has little, if any, margin to absorb additional adverse shocks or slippages in the implementation of the Program. In the event that policy implementation takes longer than expected or falls short of expectations, or the economy takes longer than expected to respond to the labor market and other structural competitiveness-enhancing reforms, or the fiscal impact of the recession is higher than estimated in subsequent years, the likely result would be a higher debt trajectory than that suggested by the post-private sector involvement analysis underlying the Program. •Failure to successfully implement the Program over its term to 2016 may lead to termination of financial support provided by the IMF and the EU, or may undermine a potential agreement for the provision of additional medium-term financing and debt relief to the Government in 2014. Such a development would create the conditions for a new credit event with respect to Hellenic Republic debt or lead to a default by the Hellenic Republic on its debt, which would include both marketable instruments and official sector loans from the Eurozone countries. •Even if the Hellenic Republic successfully implements the Program, Government debt as a percentage of GDP is projected to remain above 170% of GDP until 2015, according to EU projections in the recent (fourth) review of the Program, and it remains uncertain whether the Greek economy will grow sufficiently to ease the financing constraints of the Hellenic Republic without a new agreement with the EU and the IMF which would provide additional debt relief with direct official sector involvement, i.e., with a reduction in Greece's debt obligations to the IMF and the Eurozone. This relief could occur through new changes in the conditions of official sector loans or further restructuring of Greek government bonds held by the Eurosystem and a direct haircut on official sector loans or loans from the European Financial Stability Facility ("EFSF") or a combination of the above. Failure to agree on a credible way to restore long-term debt sustainability and cover possible additional needs (even if due to factors outside the control of the Hellenic Republic) of Greece for external financing in upcoming years may result in a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic debt occurring prior to the completion of the Program. •Further instability in the current coalition Government (elected on June 17, 2012), or a shrinkage of its parliamentary majority through the withdrawal of one of the two parties (following the withdrawal of the "Democratic Left" in June 2013) currently supporting the Program, could pose significant risks to the implementation of the Program. In addition, the 15 Table of Contents commitment by the member states of the Eurozone to provide long-term support to Greece on acceptable terms is subject to significant risks related not only to Greece's ability to avoid any additional slippages in the implementation of the Program but also to increasing public discontent in these countries regarding support to Greece. •The large losses experienced by private creditors as a result of the PSI exchange in conjunction with the high level of Greek sovereign debt, even after the PSI and successful completion of the debt buy-back in December 2012 (above 120% of GDP until 2020), render an improvement of market sentiment and a significant upward revision of sovereign ratings highly unlikely for the short to medium-term unless new decisions that provide significant long-term relief on Greek sovereign debt profile are taken by Eurozone member states. In this respect, valuations of Hellenic Republic assets (and thus privatization revenue budgeted for in the Program), as well as the continuing ability of Greece to access the international capital markets, remain subject to substantial uncertainty. •The recovery in economic sentiment in Greece and the marginal increase in the private deposit base of the Greek banking system (since the second half of 2012 to February 2014) could be undermined by slower progress in structural reforms and tensions in fiscal adjustment strategy. •The bail-in agreement between the Troika and Cyprus, reached on March 25, 2013, regarding financial assistance of EUR10 billion (57% of Cyprus's GDP), is expected to weigh heavily on the real and financial conditions of the Cypriot economy in coming years and could take an indirect toll on macroeconomic conditions in Greece. The recent economic turbulence and elevated uncertainty in Cyprus may have an impact on Greece mainly through the external trade and foreign direct investment channels (with Greece being the largest investor in Cyprus and Cypriot markets being a leading destination of Greek goods exports). Furthermore, the situation in Cyprus gives rise to a contagion risk of a prolonged banking crisis and deep recession in Cyprus. There is a possibility of elevated systemic turbulence originating from the management and resolution strategy of Eurogroup's decisions, with uninsured creditors/depositors and shareholders bearing an unprecedented amount of losses and the related progress towards genuine banking union being subject to considerable uncertainties and delays. For more information about the main elements of each reform and the substantial risks to the Program, see Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis" and "—Second Economic Adjustment Program, jointly supported by the IMF and the Member States of the Eurozone". The uncertainty relating to the implementation of the Program and sovereign debt reduction has directly affected the capital levels, liquidity and profitability of the financial system of the Hellenic Republic and consequently that of the Bank. Specifically: •PSI-related losses resulted in significant recapitalization of Greek banks in June 2013, which was satisfied out of resources made available under the Program (resulting in 84.4% of the Bank's ordinary share capital being held by the HFSF); •the buyback of Greek government bonds by the Hellenic Republic in December 2012 deprives Greek banks of future income and gains from a potential increase in the fair value of the bonds; •there is limited liquidity in the Greek banking system, reflecting an effective closing of private capital market financing since the end of 2009 and a sizeable contraction of the domestic deposit base since 2010 (33.2% in total in the period up to February 2014, with the exception of a mild recovery of 3.1% between July 2012 and February 2014, according to Bank of Greece data) and a heavy reliance on Eurosystem funding; and •high competition for, and thus cost of, customer deposits. 16 Table of Contents A failure of the Program to result in a marked improvement in the Greek economy would have significant adverse consequences on the Bank. If another credit event with respect to Hellenic Republic debt or an additional restructuring of Hellenic Republic debt were to occur, the Bank's regulatory capital would be severely affected due to its direct exposure to Hellenic Republic debt, as well as due to the indirect effects of the credit event on investor confidence, requiring the Bank to raise additional capital and thus diluting and/or eliminating existing shareholders' interests significantly. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Bank could raise all of the required additional capital on acceptable terms. Even if the Program is successfully implemented, the Greek economy may not achieve the sustained and robust growth that is necessary to ease the financial constraints of the country and markets. Notwithstanding the Program, the Greek economy will continue to be affected by the credit risk of other countries in the EU, the creditworthiness of commercial counterparties internationally and the repercussions arising from changes to the European institutional framework, which may contribute to continuing investor fears regarding Greece's capacity to honor its financial commitments (see "—There are risks associated with the Bank's need for additional capital and liquidity, which may arise from regulatory changes and increased asset impairment."). In addition, a continued depression in the Greek economy will have a significant material adverse effect on the Bank's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Recessionary pressures in Greece stemming from the Program have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities are dependent on the level of banking, finance and financial products and services we offer, as well as our customers' capacity to repay their liabilities. In particular, the levels of savings and credit demand are heavily dependent on customer confidence, employment trends and the availability and cost of funding. Following a cumulative output decline of 24.3% during the period 2009 to 2013, economic activity in 2014 is expected to increase by 0.6% year on year, according to estimates of the latest EU evaluation report of the Program. The protracted period of poor economic conditions in the Hellenic Republic has materially and adversely affected the liquidity, business activity and financial conditions of our borrowers, which in turn led to further increases in our non-accruing loan ratios, impairment charges on our loans and other financial assets and decreased demand for borrowings in general and increasing deposit outflows. Specifically, our non-accruing loan ratio in Greece has increased from 21.4% at December 31, 2012 to 26.7% at December 31, 2013. Loans to businesses and households declined in 2013, and although levels are expected to start stabilizing in 2014, they may decline further. Moreover, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. In the context of continued market turmoil, worsening macroeconomic conditions and increasing unemployment, coupled with declining consumer spending and business investment and the worsening credit profile of our corporate and retail borrowers, the value of assets collateralizing our secured loans, including houses and other real estate, could result in further significant declines in value. Such decline could result in impairment of the value of our loan assets or an increase in the level of past due loans, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Finally, if the Program is not implemented successfully (especially with respect to the structural reform agenda) or if additional austerity measures beyond those agreed to in the Program are required to counterbalance potential deviations from the Program's targets, economic activity may register a 17 Table of Contents weaker than expected performance in 2014, which will result in a delayed recovery and a further adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. There are risks associated with the Bank's need for additional capital and liquidity, which may arise from regulatory changes and increased asset impairment. The Bank and the Group are required by regulators in the Hellenic Republic and other countries in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital. To the extent the Group has regulated activities elsewhere in the European Economic Area (the "EEA"), it will remain subject to the minimum capital requirements prescribed by the regulatory authority in the Hellenic Republic, except in jurisdictions where it has regulated subsidiaries, which will be subject to the capital requirements prescribed by local regulatory authorities. In jurisdictions where it has branches, including within the EEA, the Bank is also subject to regulatory capital and liquidity requirements of such jurisdictions. The Bank, its regulated subsidiaries and its branches may be subject to the risk of having insufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital and/or liquidity requirements. In addition, those minimum regulatory capital requirements are increasing and may increase further in the future, or the methods of calculating capital resources may change. Likewise, liquidity requirements may have come under heightened scrutiny, and may place additional stress on the Group's liquidity demands in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Group sustained significant decreases in its regulatory capital in 2011 and 2012. The Group participated in the PSI and as a result, the Group recognized impairment losses on its Greek government bond portfolio and loans of EUR 10,091 million in 2011 and impairment losses on its Greek government bond portfolio of EUR 415 million in 2012. Furthermore, as a result of economic conditions in the Hellenic Republic, the Group also impaired its non-PSI exposure to the Hellenic Republic by an amount of EUR 673 million and EUR 636 million in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The impairments had an adverse effect on the Group's capital position, resulting in losses of EUR 14.5 billion and EUR 2.5 billion in 2011 and 2012, respectively. As a result, the Group's capital adequacy ratio fell below the minimum threshold of 8% (negative 6.1% as at December 31, 2012) and, consequently, the Bank requested access to capital from the HFSF. As at March 31, 2013, Act 13/28.3.2013 of the Executive Committee of the Bank of Greece established new additional limits of 9% and 6% for the Core Tier I ("CT1") ratio and Common Equity Tier I ratio, respectively, for the Group and the Bank and introduced a cap of 20% of CT1 on the recognition of DTAs. As at December 31, 2013, Act 36/23.12.2013 of the Executive Committee of the Bank of Greece, removed the cap on the recognition of DTA up to 20% of the CT1, which is reflected in the CT1 ratio as at December 31, 2013. As at December 31, 2013, the Group's CT1 ratio had increased to 10.3% (compared to 7.8% as at December 31, 2012, adjusted based on Act 13/28.3.2013 of the Executive Committee of the Bank of Greece) due to the 2013 profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders of EUR 809 million (in accordance with IFRS), and certain actions completed by management, such as the disposal of the Bank's 66.0% interest out of the 100% held in NBG Pangaea REIC, liability management exercises, deleveraging and de-risking and the buy-back of a portion of the non-voting redeemable preference shares. If the Group does not satisfy the minimum capital ratio requirements in the future, it may be subject to the measures that the Bank of Greece can take, pursuant to Greek Law 3601/2007, including the Bank of Greece appointing a commissioner to the Bank (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). If the regulations governing the use of DTAs as part of our regulatory capital change, whether in recognizing DTAs as part of our capital base or limiting such use of DTAs in calculating our capital base, this may affect our capital base and consequently our capital ratios. Moreover, prior to taking over its supervisory and regulatory authority over Eurozone banks in November 2014, the ECB is conducting a comprehensive assessment of the largest European banks, including the Bank, comprising an asset quality review and stress tests in order to enhance the 18 Table of Contents transparency of their balance sheets. The comprehensive assessment is due to be completed by October 2014. The process comprises three levels: the first two consist of the supervisory risk assessment and asset quality review while the third one, which will be performed with the cooperation of the European Banking Authority ("EBA"), will include a stress test under the baseline and adverse scenarios. The EBA announced the capital requirements for both baseline and adverse scenarios amounting to 8% and 5.5%, respectively, of CET 1 capital of the banks calculated under CRD IV rules. The results of this EBA stress test may lead to additional capital needs for the Bank. Further deterioration of market conditions, in Greece and internationally, may adversely affect the quality of our loan and investment portfolio and lead to larger impairments in the future taking into account the loan portfolio. The potential deterioration in the credit quality of our assets may exceed expectations and generate an additional regulatory capital requirement. In addition, the Bank and the Bank of Greece, in connection with the 2014 Stress Tests for the Bank, assumed in the calculation of the Bank's capital, a capital contribution of approximately EUR 290 million by the HFSF for the capital needs resulting from the acquisition by the Bank in 2013 of FBB and Probank. In case the HFSF does not provide such capital contribution, because of a change in the law or otherwise, the Bank will need to also cover such capital shortfall. Any failure by us to maintain minimum regulatory capital ratios could result in administrative actions or other sanctions, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. See Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece" for further details. If we are required to strengthen our capital position, it may not be possible for the Bank to raise additional capital from the financial markets or to dispose of marketable assets. That could potentially lead to further mandatory capital injections from the HFSF pursuant to the provisions of Greek Law 3864/2010 as recently amended by Greek Law 4254/2014, which could dilute or/and eliminate the interests of the ordinary shareholders, increasing the likelihood of HFSF effectively exercising full control over the Bank. Effective management of the Group's regulatory capital is critical to the ability to operate our businesses, to grow organically and to pursue the Group's strategy. Any change that limits the Group's ability to manage its balance sheet and regulatory capital resources effectively, including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, changes in its asset composition, delays in the disposal of certain assets or an inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions or otherwise to access funding sources could have a material adverse impact on the Group's financial condition and regulatory capital position. We may not successfully complete all elements of our capital plan, which may lead to the application of the new "bail-in" rules for our shareholders and the acquisition of full voting rights by the HFSF. The results of the 2014 Stress Tests, which were a requirement under the Program, were announced on March 6, 2014. The key drivers of the capital requirements were credit loss projections on total loans granted in Greece and abroad and estimated internal capital generation, which is pre-provision income and capital actions of the banks, based on what the Bank of Greece characterized as a conservative adjustment of restructuring plans submitted by the Greek banks to the Bank of Greece, as well as a cap of 20% of CT1 on the recognition of DTAs, which is reflected in the CT1 ratio used by the Bank of Greece as at June 30, 2013 in the 2014 Stress Tests. The Bank of Greece used the results of the independent diagnostic study conducted by BlackRock on Greek banks' loan portfolios in Greece and abroad. For the Bank, the Bank of Greece determined a capital shortfall of EUR 2.2 billion under the baseline scenario (with a target CT1 ratio of 8%) and EUR 2.5 billion under the adverse scenario (with a target CT1 ratio of 5.5%). The Bank presented its capital plan to the Bank of Greece and this plan was approved by the Bank of Greece on April 11, 2014. Under the capital plan, the Bank intends to meet the capital shortfall determined by the Bank of Greece by the share capital increase announced on April 16, 2014 and completed on May 13, 2014 under which 19 Table of Contents EUR 2.5 billion was raised and certain capital actions amounting to EUR 1,040 million, including the sale of non-core businesses and loans de-risking. See "Recent Developments" for further detail relating to the Bank's capital plan. However, we may not be successful in completing all the capital actions in the capital plan. If the Bank fails to cover this capital shortfall then under the recently amended recapitalization framework (pursuant to Greek Law 4254/2014 and Cabinet Act 11/2014), the requisite capital will be provided by the HFSF solely after the implementation of burden sharing measures in the event the Bank is not successful in obtaining the required capital from private investors through a subsequent capital raising process. These "bail-in rules" as currently stipulated in Greek Law 4254/2014 could be enforced against, firstly, holders of common shares (including the shares being offered in the 2014 capital increase), then subordinated lenders and, lastly, holders of the bank's capital instruments, resulting in losses to and/or elimination of the interests of these classes of investors. In addition, in the context of such a recapitalization by the HFSF, the HFSF will acquire full voting rights and thus effectively exercise full control over the Bank. Repayment of the EUR 1,350 million Greek State Preference Shares is subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Potential repayment of the EUR 1,350 million Greek State Preference Shares issued as a result of our participation in Pillar I of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, while not a part of our capital plan, would strengthen our flexibility in managing our capital, as these shares are not recognized as CT1 on a fully-loaded Basel III basis. Any repayment of the Greek State Preference Shares is subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Greece (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan"). Accordingly, we may not be able to realize one benefit of the capital raising announced on April 16, 2014 and completed in May 2014, if the Bank of Greece does not grant us the required consent for such repayment. Furthermore, if we do not complete all the capital actions, we may not have sufficient capital to repay the Greek State Preference Shares. Lastly, to the extent we do not repay the Greek State Preference Shares, a possible conversion of the Greek State Preference Shares into Ordinary Shares may also significantly alter the type and composition of our shareholder base. We are currently restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB and the Bank of Greece for funding, which may be affected by changes in ECB and the Bank of Greece rules relating to the eligibility of collateral used for funding such as Greek government bonds and guarantees. The ongoing economic crisis has adversely affected the Bank's credit risk profile, delayed its return to the markets for funding, and increased the cost of such funding and the need for additional collateral requirements in repo contracts and other secured funding arrangements, including those with the ECB and the Bank of Greece. Although the Group on April 30, 2014 issued a EUR 750 million senior unsecured bond, maturing in 2019, bearing an interest rate of 4.375% and had a yield of 4.5% at the time of pricing, concerns relating to the ongoing impact of these conditions may further delay our ability to obtain funding in the private capital markets in the medium term. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access of the Bank to the capital markets for funding because of concerns by counterparty banks and other lenders, particularly for unsecured funding and funding from the short-term inter-bank market. Until recently, these markets have been effectively closed to all Greek banks since the end of 2009. As a result, maturing inter-bank liabilities have not been renewed, or have been renewed only at higher costs. In addition, deposit outflows beginning in late 2009 continue to put pressure on the liquidity position of many Greek banks. Reflecting the loss of access to market funding as well as the sharp decline in deposits, our net ECB funding and funding from the Bank of Greece, through its Emergency Liquidity Assistance 20 Table of Contents ("ELA") facility, which has less strict collateral rules but higher cost of funds, increased considerably as a result of the crisis although it declined in 2013. As at December 31, 2013, our ECB funding amounted to EUR 20.7 billion, compared to EUR 30.9 billion as at December 31, 2012, while our ELA funding was reduced to zero, with the financial instruments pledged to the ECB of a nominal value amounting to EUR 27.0 billion (see Note 19 to the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements for the analysis of instruments pledged). As at December 31, 2013, financial instruments with nominal value of EUR 29.7 billion were available for further liquidity. The liquidity we receive from the ECB or the Bank of Greece may be adversely affected by changes in ECB and Bank of Greece rules. The amount of funding available from the ECB or the Bank of Greece is tied to the value of the collateral we provide, including the market value of our holdings of Greek government bonds, which may also decline. If the value of our assets declines, then the amount of funding we can obtain from the ECB or the Bank of Greece will be correspondingly limited. In addition, if the ECB or the Bank of Greece were to revise their collateral standards or increase the rating requirements for collateral securities such that these instruments were not eligible to serve as collateral with the ECB or the Bank of Greece, the Bank's funding costs could increase and its access to liquidity could be limited. The ECB has placed time limitations (the end of February 2015) on the use of Government-guaranteed securities as eligible collateral. In addition, we use our covered bonds as collateral with the ECB or the Bank of Greece. Our covered bonds may also become ineligible for use as collateral in the future, as a result of changes in ECB or the Bank of Greece rules or further credit ratings downgrades. A further downgrade or withdrawal of Greek sovereign ratings would also likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to access current levels of funding from the ECB, the Bank of Greece or other source. A loss of deposits and a prolonged need for additional Eurosystem funding may result in the exhaustion of collateral eligible for funding from the Eurosystem and may adversely affect our liquidity. An accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits could cause an increase in our costs of funding and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity prospects. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been customer deposits. Since we rely on customer deposits for the majority of our funding, if our depositors withdraw their funds at a rate faster than the rate at which borrowers repay their loans, or if we are unable to obtain the necessary liquidity by other means, we may be unable to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring significantly higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain of our assets, or without increasing access to the ECB and the Bank of Greece under their exceptional terms. As at December 31, 2013 there was an increase in the Group's domestic deposits excluding interbank deposits of 11.8% compared to 2012. However, as at December 31, 2012, the Group's domestic deposits excluding interbank deposits decreased by 6.6% compared to December 31, 2011 and 23.1% compared to December 31, 2010. The ongoing availability of customer deposits to fund the Bank's loan portfolio is subject to potential changes in certain factors outside the Bank's control, such as depositors' concerns relating to the economy in general, the financial services industry or the Bank specifically, significant further deterioration in economic conditions in Greece reducing the availability of funds for deposits and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees. In addition, the risk of implementation of changes in the framework for supporting credit institutions by requiring the participation of their respective shareholders, creditors and unsecured depositors (the "bail-in" measures) and/or initiatives for taxation of deposits may also reduce the availability of deposits. Any of these factors separately or in combination could lead to a sustained reduction in the Bank's ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms in the future, which would impact the Bank's ability to fund its operation and meet its minimum liquidity requirements and have a material adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. Unusually high levels of withdrawals could have the result that the 21 Table of Contents Bank or another member of the Group may not be in a position to continue to operate without additional funding support, which it may be unable to secure. Negative results in the Bank's stress testing may lead to further capital increases or loss of public confidence in the Bank. Stress tests analyzing the European banking sector have been, and we anticipate that they will continue to be, published by national and supranational regulatory authorities. For example, prior to assuming responsibility for the single supervision mechanism ("SSM"), the ECB will conduct asset quality reviews and stress tests of the largest European banks, including the Bank, by October 2014. At present, it is not clear how the EBA stress tests will affect the Bank's capital. Loss of confidence in the banking sector following the announcement of stress tests regarding the Bank or the Greek banking system as a whole, or a market perception that any such tests are not rigorous enough, could also have a negative effect on the Bank's cost of funding and may thus have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, any future stress tests may result in a requirement for the Bank to raise additional capital which, if injected by the HFSF or other investors may result in a significant dilution and/or elimination of existing shareholders' interests. Deteriorating asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions may adversely affect our future earnings and our capital adequacy. The global economic slowdown and economic crisis in Greece have resulted in an increase in non-accruing loans and significant changes in the fair values of our financial assets. A substantial portion of our loans to corporate and individual borrowers are secured by collateral such as real estate, securities, vessels, term deposits and receivables. In particular, as mortgage loans are one of our principal assets, we are currently highly exposed to developments in real estate markets, especially in Greece. From 2002 to 2007, demand for housing and mortgage financing in Greece increased significantly driven by, among other things, economic growth, declining unemployment rates, demographic and social trends and historically low interest rates in the Eurozone. In late 2007, the housing market began to adjust in Greece as a result of excess supply, higher interest rates and an accelerated decline in household disposable income. Construction activity started to contract sharply since 2009. The adjustment in residential valuations started in 2009 and continued at an accelerating pace in the period 2010 to 2013 (with prices falling by 34% cumulatively in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared their peak in 2008, according to the "Bulletin of Conjunctural Indicators" published by the Bank of Greece, January to February 2014). The pace of decline of house prices is expected to slow in 2014 as the contraction of disposable income will continue at a significantly lower rate but the high stock of unsold houses, weak credit flows and a high unemployment rate 27.3% in 2013 (according to IMF World Economic Outlook staff estimates, January 2014), will delay market stabilization further, with mortgage delinquencies registering a further increase. A continued decline in the Greek economy, or a deterioration of economic conditions in any industry in which our borrowers operate or in the market of the collateral, may result in the value of collateral falling below the outstanding principal balance for some loans, particularly those disbursed in the years prior to the crisis. A decline in the value of collateral, or our inability to obtain additional collateral, may require us to establish additional allowance for loan losses. In addition, our failure to recover the expected value of collateral in the case of foreclosure, or our inability to initiate foreclosure proceedings due to domestic legislation, may expose us to losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, since July 1, 2010, pursuant to then- applicable framework, auctions initiated by banks or their assignees for satisfaction of claims not exceeding EUR 200,000 were suspended until December 31, 2013. Under Article 2 of Greek law 4224/2013 which amended the above mentioned restrictions, auctions are suspended from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 for real estate used as the main residence of the debtors with an 22 Table of Contents objective value of up to EUR 200,000, and current law prohibits enforcement if the following criteria are met cumulatively: (a) the debtor's family's annual declared net income is lower than EUR 35,000 and (b) the total value of the debtors' assets and property does not exceed the amount of EUR 270,000, of which the total value of the debtor's deposits in Greece and abroad as at November 20, 2013 does not exceed the amount of EUR 15,000. See Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—Constraints on the Use of Capital". In addition, an increase in financial market volatility or adverse changes in the marketability of our assets could impair our ability to value certain of our assets and exposures. The value ultimately realized by us will depend on their fair value determined at that time and may be materially different from their current value. Any decrease in the value of such assets and exposures could require us to realize additional impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our capital adequacy. Our wholesale borrowing costs and access to liquidity and capital may be negatively affected by a series of downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating. Since 2009, the Hellenic Republic has undergone a series of credit rating downgrades and, in 2010, moved to a below-investment-grade rating. The credit rating of the Hellenic Republic was lowered by all three major credit rating agencies to levels just above default status following the activation of collective action clauses in Greek government bonds subject to Greek law in February 2012. Specifically, the Hellenic Republic's credit rating was lowered to Selective Default-SD by Standard & Poor's ("S&P") (February 27, 2012), to Restricted Default-RD by Fitch Ratings Ltd. ("Fitch") (March 9, 2012) and to C by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. ("Moody's") (March 2, 2012). Following the conclusion of the exchange of Greek government bonds under Greek law, Fitch raised its rating to B- (March 13, 2012) and S&P raised its rating to CC (May 2, 2012). Subsequently, on May 17, 2012, Fitch lowered the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to CCC due to the upcoming general elections. On March 21, 2014, S&P affirmed Greece's sovereign credit rating of B-/B and gave it a stable outlook. In December 2012, S&P downgraded the Hellenic Republic to Selective Default-SD, following the invitation to eligible holders of new Greek government bonds issued under the PSI to participate in the buyback program. However, on December 18, 2012, following the completion of the auction process relating to the buyback, S&P upgraded the long-term credit rating of the Hellenic Republic by six notches to B- and the short-term credit rating to B with stable outlook, stating that this upgrade is based on the strong commitment of the Government to achieve the fiscal adjustment. On May 14, 2013, Fitch upgraded the Hellenic Republic's rating to B-. On November 29, 2013, Moody's upgraded the Hellenic Republic's credit rating to Caa3 due to Greece's improved fiscal outlook. A further downgrade of the Hellenic Republic's rating may occur in the event of a failure to implement the Program or if the Program fails to produce the intended results. Accordingly, the cost of risk for the Hellenic Republic would increase further, with negative effects on the cost of risk for Greek banks, including the Bank, their and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating could result in a corresponding downgrade in the Bank's credit rating and, as a result, increase wholesale borrowing costs and our access to liquidity. The Bank does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders and may not be able to pay dividends in the future. In accordance with the provisions of Greek Law 3723/2008, in conjunction with Greek Laws 4063/2012, 3965/2011, 3844/2010 and 3756/2009, the Bank did not pay any dividends to its ordinary shareholders in 2013 in respect of the 2012 financial year, nor in 2012 and 2011 in respect of the 2011 and 2010 financial years, respectively. Further, the Bank will not be paying an ordinary share dividend with respect to the 2013 financial year. 23 Table of Contents In general, as a result of our participation in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, our dividends are subject to a maximum of 35% of the Bank's distributable profits (on an unconsolidated basis) for as long as the Bank participates in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, and any decisions regarding distribution of dividends and remuneration can be vetoed by the Hellenic Republic representative who sits on our Board of Directors. In addition, as long as the Bank participates in the recapitalization program pursuant to Greek Law 3864/2010, the HFSF's representative who sits on the Bank's Board of Directors has the power to veto any decision of the Board of Directors of the Bank regarding the distribution of dividends and remunerations to the Chairman, Chief executive Officer, other Board members, General Managers and their deputies. Pursuant to the commitments undertaken by the Hellenic Republic to the European Commission due to the provision of state-aid to Greek credit institutions, the Bank is prohibited from distributing dividends or paying coupons on its own fund instruments or releasing reserves to put itself in such a position until the end of the restructuring period, unless such payment fulfills legal obligation of the Bank or the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission grants a relevant exception. In June 2008, we issued 25 million non-cumulative, non-voting redeemable preference shares at an issue price of USD 625 million, which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"). The Bank's Board of Directors at its meeting of July 18, 2013 adopted the cancellation of 12,360,169 of the aforementioned preference shares, following their successful buy-back. Accordingly, the Bank has 12,639,831 U.S. Preference Shares. If the Bank has sufficient distributable funds, each U.S Preference Share is entitled to USD 2.25 per share dividend per annum paid in cash. Payments of dividends U.S. Preference Shares take preference over distributable profits otherwise available to our ordinary shareholders. We have not paid any dividends on the U.S. Preference Shares since March 2011 and will not proceed to such payment in respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2013 in accordance with the Bank's Articles of Association, and the provisions of article 44a in conjunction with articles 42c and 43 of the Greek Company Law 2190/1920, which prohibit the payment of dividends in the absence of sufficient distributable funds. In addition, under Greek Law, banks participating in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan could distribute dividends to ordinary shareholders in respect of financial years ended December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2012, only in the form of ordinary shares excluding treasury shares. There is no law imposing a similar restriction on the payment of dividends for the financial year ended December 31, 2013, such restrictions may be imposed in the future, as they have been in past years. Our participation in the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan also includes the issuance of Greek State Preference Shares (EUR 350 million in January 2009 and EUR 1,000 million in December 2011). Greek Law 4093/2012 provides that the fixed return of 10% on the Greek State Preference Shares in accordance with Greek Law 3723/2008, is payable in any case, notwithstanding the provisions of Greek Law 2190/1920 (with the exception of article 44a which prohibits the payment of dividends in the absence of sufficient distributable funds) the payment of the fixed return will lower the CT1 ratio of the Bank below the minimum required and the restrictions of article 44a of Greek Company Law 2190/1920 apply, as was the case for the Bank for the year ended December 31, 2013. The Bank will consider using part of the proceeds from the issuance and sale of the new shares in the context of the capital increased announced on April 16, 2014 and completed in May 2014, to repay, subject to prior approval by the Bank of Greece, the Greek State Preference Shares. If the required approval is not obtained and the Greek State Preference Shares are not repaid, the Greek State Preference Shares will remain outstanding, a gradual cumulative increase of 2% per year on the 10% fixed return will be paid by the Bank and the restrictions on the payment of dividends set forth above will continue to apply. For further information on the terms of the Greek State Preference Shares, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece". 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Recapitalization and Receipt of State Aid As a recipient of state aid, the Bank's operational autonomy is constrained. The recapitalization of the Greek banks placed the Bank under European state aid rules. Under such rules, the Bank's operations are restricted so that the state aid provided does not lead to the distortion of competition. Pursuant to commitments undertaken by the Hellenic Republic vis-à-vis, the European Commission due to the provision of state aid to Greek banks, the Bank is prohibited from distributing dividends or paying coupons on own funds instruments or releasing reserves to put itself in such a position until the end of the restructuring period, unless such payment fulfills legal obligation of the Bank or the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission grants a relevant exception. Apart from the above, the Bank is not permitted to acquire any stake in any undertaking, unless the purchase price falls below certain thresholds or the acquisition takes place in the ordinary course of business or is required to take place under laws regarding the consolidation of the Greek banking sector. There are also restrictions on the lending practices that the Bank follows and risk monitoring requirements that the Bank must fulfill. The commitments of the Hellenic Republic towards the European Commission provide for, among others, the appointment of a Monitoring Trustee for each bank under restructuring. The Monitoring Trustee acts on behalf of the European Commission and aims to ensure the compliance of the Bank with the such commitments and oversees the implementation of restructuring plans and the Bank's compliance with the applicable state aid rules (See Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece-Other Laws and Regulations Governing Banks in Greece"). Grant Thornton was appointed as the Bank's Monitoring Trustee on January 16, 2013. The Monitoring Trustee's powers affect Management's discretion by imposing further supervision on the Bank, which may affect business decisions and development strategies and limit the operational flexibility of the Group. The state aid received by the Bank in the previous years was only temporarily approved by the European Commission and is subject to further investigation under state aid rules The Group participated in the PSI and, as a result, recorded impairment losses on its Greek government bond portfolio and loans of EUR 10,091 million in 2011 and impairment losses on its Greek government bond portfolio of EUR 415 million in 2012. These losses adversely affected the capital position of the Group and, as a result, the Group's total capital adequacy ratio fell below the minimum 8.0% threshold (-2.6% as at December 31, 2011) and the Bank was compelled to seek support from the HFSF. On April 20, 2012, the HFSF provided the Bank with a commitment letter to participate in the share capital increase of the Bank in 2013. On May 28, 2012, the Bank entered into a presubscription agreement, as amended and codified on December 21, 2012 (the "Presubscription Agreement"), which replaced the commitment letter and through which the HFSF advanced to the Bank, bonds of EUR 7,430 million and EUR 2,326 million as pre-funding against the total amount of recapitalization required by the Bank. As at December 31, 2012, we had received from the HFSF total funds of EUR 9,756 million (in the form of bonds issued by the EFSF). On July 27, 2012, the European Commission temporarily approved the state aid received by several Greek banks, including the Bank, for the recapitalization with a commitment letter from the HFSF and an advance payment. In addition, the European Commission preliminarily assessed the required criteria required under EU state aid rules, such as the appropriateness, necessity and proportionality of such criteria. Consequently, the European Commission launched a formal investigation of such criteria in order to conduct a more detailed assessment and allow third parties to submit comments. 25 Table of Contents In June 2013, the Bank completed its share capital increase, raising EUR 9,756 million. Following the participation of the HFSF into the Bank's share capital, the Bank and the HFSF entered into the Relationship Framework Agreement, which governs the relationship between the Bank and the HFSF and which replaced the Presubscription Agreement, save for certain provisions which survived termination (for more information on the Presubscription Agreement and the Relationship Framework Agreement, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Financial Stability Fund—The Greek Recapitalization Framework—Provision of Capital Support by the HFSF—The Relationship Framework Agreement and Advance Payment of HFSF Participation in the share capital increase of a bank"). The amount finally contributed by the HFSF following completion of the 2013 share capital increase was EUR 8,677 million as at December 31, 2013. With the Greek State Preference Shares, the total amount of state aid received by the Bank, in forms other than guarantees and liquidity assistance, was EUR 10,027 million as at December 31, 2013. Approval of aid from the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission requires approval of an amended restructuring plan, which further constrains the operational autonomy of the Bank. On October 31, 2012 the Hellenic Republic submitted (through the Ministry of Finance) a restructuring plan for the Bank to the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission in accordance with Greek Law 3864/2010. As a consequence of subsequent mergers and acquisitions and structural changes that took place in the Greek banking sector and our 2013 share capital increase, the submitted restructuring plan was deemed to no longer be adequately representative of the Bank's current situation. As a result, the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission requested re-submission of the restructuring plan. The updated plan is expected to be submitted in 2014 following the completion of the recent share capital increase which was completed on May 13, 2014, once the contemplated commitments are finalized between the Hellenic Republic and the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission. Any such commitments will be specified once we conclude our discussions with the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission. There is no approved restructuring plan in effect.The implementation of any measures agreed with the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission in connection with a resubmitted restructuring plan may significantly affect our business activity, operating results and financial position. At the end of its formal investigation, the European Commission may conclude that the aid provided by the HFSF to the Bank: •is in compliance with the applicable state aid rules and therefore should be approved ("positive decision"). This positive decision could be subject to other requirements (in addition to those already included in the Bank's restructuring plan) which will be proposed by the Hellenic Republic; or •is not in compliance with the applicable state aid rules, which would result in a request for the return to the HFSF of all or part of the aid provided by the HFSF to the Bank ("negative decision"). A negative decision or a positive decision, subject to excessive additional requirements on our capital restructuring, may significantly affect the Group's capital ratios and restrict access to Eurosystem funding. In view of progress in preparation of the restructuring plan and based on the communication between the Bank, the HFSF and the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission, the Bank intends to undertake to the European Commission to dispose of certain of the Bank's assets or subsidiaries. See Item 4.A, "History and Development of the Company—Restructuring Plan to be Submitted and Agreed with the Directorate General for Competition" for further detail of our commitments, including certain disposals. The implementation of these measures by the Bank may have 26 Table of Contents a significant impact on its business activity, operating results and financial position. Furthermore, the timing of their implementation may be to the detriment of shareholders. For example, such disposals may be undertaken by the Bank at unattractive valuations or during unfavorable market conditions. Failure of the Bank to meet the material terms specified in the restructuring plan to be approved or to implement the restructuring plan may result, depending on the magnitude or nature of the failure, in the European Commission initiating an investigation into the misuse of the aid, which may result in the partial or entire recovery of state aid and/or the imposition of additional conditions, in line with previous requests to banks in the European Union that have received state aid. In addition, it may result in the HFSF exercising full voting rights in respect of its shares in the Bank (see "—The HFSF as shareholder has certain rights in relation to the operation of the Bank and in the future the HFSF could obtain full voting rights in respect of its shareholding in the Bank"). The HFSF as shareholder has certain rights in relation to the operation of the Bank and in the future the HFSF could obtain full voting rights in respect of its shareholding in the Bank. Under the initial terms of the Presubscription Agreement and as currently set forth in the Relationship Framework Agreement governing the relations between the Bank and HFSF, the HFSF as shareholder has certain rights in relation to the operation of the Bank. Although the Relationship Framework Agreement provides that the Bank's decision making bodies will continue to determine independently, among other things, the Bank's commercial strategy and policy, the monitoring and veto powers held by the HFSF representative appointed to the Bank's Board of Directors (appointed since June 2012 under Greek Law 3864/2010) restrict the discretion of the Bank's management. Pursuant to the provisions of Greek Law 3864/2010, the HFSF's appointed representative has the power to: (a) veto key corporate decisions of a credit institution's board of directors related to (i) dividend distributions, the remuneration policy relating to the chairman, managing directors and the other Board members, general managers and deputies; (ii) any other matter which may set at risk the rights of depositors or have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, solvency and/or, in general, on the prudent and orderly operation of the credit institution, including its business strategy and asset/liability management); and (iii) decisions referring to matters for which the restriction in the voting rights of the shares held does not apply and which significantly affect the HFSF's shareholding in the credit institution; (b) request an adjournment of a Board meeting for three business days in order to receive instructions from the HFSF Executive Committee, following consultation with the Bank of Greece; (c) call a board meeting; (d) approve the appointment of the chief financial officer; (e) call a general shareholders' meeting for a credit institution within the shortened deadlines provided for in Greek Law 3864/2010; and (f) have free access to all books and records of the credit institution. Accordingly, as a result of the Bank's participation in the recapitalization program, the HFSF will be able to exercise significant influence over the operations of the Bank. In addition to the provisions of Greek Law 3864/2010, and pursuant to the Relationship Framework Agreement, the HFSF has a series of information rights with respect to matters pertaining to the Bank. Additionally, the HFSF may appoint at least one member to each of the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee. Finally, the Bank is obliged to obtain the prior approval of the HFSF on a number of material issues. Consequently, there is a risk that the HFSF may exercise the rights it has to exert influence over the Bank and may disagree with certain of the Bank's decisions relating to dividend distributions, benefits policies and other commercial and management decisions which will ultimately limit the Group's operational flexibility. In addition, the HFSF could obtain full voting rights in the future and as a consequence the Group may be controlled by the HFSF. Pursuant to Article 7a of Law 3864/2010, the HFSF may obtain full voting rights if it is ascertained, by a decision of the General Council of the HFSF, that our 27 Table of Contents material obligations either provided in the restructuring plan, or promoting its implementation, or outlined in the Relationship Framework Agreement between the Bank and the HFSF, are not met. Furthermore, we will be required within the following months to submit an updated restructuring plan to the Directorate General for Competition of the European Commission as discussed under "—The state aid received by the Bank in the previous years was only temporarily approved by the European Commission and is subject to further investigation under state aid rules". The HFSF may include certain additional or revised terms and conditions to the ones that we are currently aware of and which cannot be assessed by us in advance (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Financial Stability Fund" and "—Recapitalization Framework"). If in the future we do not meet our obligations under the restructuring plan, the HFSF could obtain full voting rights in respect of its shares in the Bank. The Hellenic Republic has the ability to exercise and currently exercises significant influence on the Bank in certain areas. The Hellenic Republic directly owns all 270 million Greek State Preference Shares issued under the Pillar I capital facility of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan (Greek Law 3723/2008) (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Bank Support Plan"). The direct stake of the Hellenic Republic in NBG as described above, provides the Hellenic Republic, among other things, with voting rights at the General Meeting of Preferred Shareholders, the appointment of a representative on the Board of Directors of the Bank who has the ability to veto decisions relating to strategic issues or decisions that could have a material impact on the legal or financial status of the Bank and for which the approval of the General Meeting is required, or decisions referring to the distribution of dividends and the remuneration of NBG's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the remaining members of the Board of Directors, the General Managers and their deputies under the relevant decision of the Ministry of Finance, or, in case of decisions that the representative considers detrimental to the interests of the depositors or that may materially affect the Bank's solvency and operation. Furthermore, the representative of the Hellenic Republic has the right to attend the Ordinary Shareholders' General Meeting and to exercise, during deliberation and decision-taking, a veto over the abovementioned issues and has free access to the Bank's books and records, restructuring reports, plans for medium-term financing needs, as well as data relating to the level of funding of the economy. There is an additional risk that the Hellenic Republic may exercise the rights it has to exert influence over the Bank and may disagree with certain decisions of the Group relating to dividend distributions, benefits policies and other commercial and management decisions which will ultimately limit the operational flexibility of the Group. We may consider using part of the proceeds from the issuance and sale of the shares subscribed in the May 2014 capital increase to repay, subject to prior approval by the Bank of Greece, the Greek State Preference Shares. If the required approval is not obtained and the Greek State Preference Shares are not repaid, the Greek State Preference Shares will remain outstanding and the Hellenic Republic will continue to have the ability to exercise significant influence over the Bank, as indicated above, a right which is in addition to those rights of the HFSF (see "—The HFSF as shareholder has certain rights in relation to the operation of the Bank and in the future the HFSF could obtain full voting rights in respect of its shareholding in the Bank"). If economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate, or if the financial position of the Group deteriorates, further government or inter-governmental intervention may take place. Any further government or inter-governmental intervention, including that of the HFSF, may have a material adverse effect on the interests of other holders of our securities, results of operations and financial condition and may dilute and/or eliminate the interests of the shareholders of the Bank. 28 Table of Contents Furthermore, the Hellenic Republic and the HFSF also have interests in other Greek financial institutions and an interest in the health of the Greek banking industry and other industries generally, and those interests may not always be aligned with the commercial interests of the Group or its shareholders. Risks Relating to Volatility in the Global Financial Markets We are vulnerable to the ongoing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. Following a lengthy period of recession in many economies around the world, including Europe, following the financial crisis, global economic growth has returned, although at a relatively modest pace. Most of the economies with which Greece has strong export links, including a number of EU economies, continue to face significant economic headwinds. Activity remains dependent on highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and is subject to downside risks, as room for offset measures has sharply diminished and fiscal fragilities have come to the fore. Policymakers in many advanced economies have publicly acknowledged the need to urgently adopt credible strategies to contain public debt and excessive fiscal deficits and later bring them down to more sustainable levels. The implementation of these policies may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In financial markets, concerns surfaced in a progressive widening of intra-Eurozone government bond and sovereign credit default swap ("CDS") spreads for several Eurozone issuers with large fiscal imbalances. Against a background of increasing unease over the macro-financial implications of sizeable fiscal imbalances, investors have reduced their investment in these countries. Continued reduction in investment flows may retard economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our ability to fund our operations. Results of operations, both in Greece and abroad, in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of global nature, including: political and regulatory risks and the condition of public finances; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values; the availability and cost of funding; inflation, the stability and solvency of financial institutions and other companies; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of the above factors. Adverse developments could be triggered by any further significant deterioration of global economic conditions, including the credit profile of other EU countries such as Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus, Spain or international banks, as well as further deterioration in the Greek economy. Any of these events may give rise to concerns regarding the ability of the Hellenic Republic to meet its funding needs. These developments could: •further directly impact the carrying amount of our portfolio of Government debt; •further directly impact the impairment losses for receivables relating to the Hellenic Republic; •severely affect our ability to raise capital and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements; and •severely limit our ability to access liquidity. We are exposed to risks potentially faced by other financial institutions. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Sovereign credit pressures may weigh on Greek financial institutions, limiting their funding operations and weakening their capital adequacy by reducing the market value of their sovereign and other fixed 29 Table of Contents income holdings. These liquidity concerns have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, inter-institutional financial transactions, in general. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. Given the high level of interdependence between financial institutions, we are and will continue to be subject to the risk of deterioration of the commercial and financial soundness, or perceived soundness, of other financial services institutions. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient for us to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital position. Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of public companies in the United States are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (or "PCAOB") inspections that assess their compliance with United States Law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain EU countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such EU countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB conducted inspections in Greece in 2008 and evaluated our auditor's performance of audits of SEC registrants and our auditor's quality controls. Currently, however, the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections in Greece until a cooperation agreement between the PCAOB and the Greek Accounting & Auditing Standards Oversight Board is reached. Accordingly, as would not be the case for most public companies in the United States, should the PCAOB again wish to conduct an inspection, it is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most public companies in the United States, our shareholders would be deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We maintain trading and investment positions in debt, currency, equity and other markets. These positions could be adversely affected by continuing volatility in financial and other markets and the Greek sovereign debt crisis, creating a risk of substantial losses. Significant decline in perceived or actual values of the Group's assets has resulted from previous market events. Continuing volatility and further dislocation affecting certain financial markets and asset classes could further impact the Group's results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In the future these factors could have an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in the Group's available-for-sale, trading portfolios and financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected. In addition, any further deterioration in the performance of the assets in the Group's investment securities portfolios could lead to additional impairment losses, including our holdings of Greek government bonds. The investment securities portfolios accounted for 15.7% of the Group's total assets as at December 31, 2013. Volatility can also lead to losses relating to a broad range of other trading securities and derivatives held, including swaps, futures, options and structured products. For further information on market risk exposures in those portfolios, you should refer to Item 11, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk". 30 Table of Contents The increase of non-accruing loans may have a negative impact on the Group's operations in the future. Non-accruing loans represented 26.7% of our loan portfolio as at December 31, 2013, while the same ratio for our Greek operations was 32.2% (see Item 4.E, "Selected Statistical Data—Credit Quality and Risk Management—Allowance for Loan Losses—Methodology" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations"). The effect of the economic crisis in Greece and adverse macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate may result in further adverse effects on the credit quality of our borrowers, with increasing delinquencies and defaults. In accordance with Greek Law 3869/2010, individuals who are in a state of permanent inability to pay their debts not attributable to willful misconduct, have the ability to adjust their debts and may be released from a portion of such debts through filing of an application to the competent court (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). As at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 40,369 and 25,003 customers, had applied to the court under the provisions of Greek Law 3869/2010,with combined outstanding balances of EUR 1,838 million and EUR 839 million, respectively. In addition, collateral collections are more difficult in a period of economic recession and in view of currently existing legislation relating to the valuation of collateral in enforcement proceedings for real estate used as the main residence of the debtors, with an objective value of up to EUR 200,000 where current law prohibits enforcement if the following criteria are met cumulatively : (a) the debtor's family's annual declared net income is lower than EUR 35,000 and (b) the total value of the debtors' assets and property does not exceed the amount of EUR 270,000 of which the total value of the debtor's deposits in Greece and abroad as at November 20, 2013 does not exceed the amount of EUR 15,000. See Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—Constraints on the Use of Capital—Restrictions on Enforcement of Granted Collateral". Future provisions for non-accruing loans could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. There can be no assurance that further events will not alter the interest rate environment in Greece and the other markets in which the Group operates. Cost of funding is especially at risk for the Bank due to increased Eurosystem funding and the tight liquidity conditions in the domestic deposit market. As with any bank, changes in market interest rates may affect the interest rates we charge on our interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could reduce our net interest income. Since the majority of our loan portfolio effectively re-prices within a year, rising interest rates may also result in an increase in our allowance for loan losses if customers cannot refinance in a higher interest rate environment. Further, an increase in interest rates may reduce our clients' capacity to repay in the current economic circumstances. We face significant competition from Greek and foreign banks. The general scarcity of wholesale funding since the onset of the economic crisis has led to a significant increase in competition for retail deposits in Greece. We also face competition from foreign banks in our banking operations outside of Greece, some of which may have resources greater than our own. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with domestic and international banks in the future. These competitive pressures on the Group may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Laws regarding the bankruptcy of individuals and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece, Turkey and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to receive payments on past due loans. Laws regarding the bankruptcy of individuals who are not merchants (including Greek Law 3869/2010, regarding the debt arrangement of debts for over-indebted individuals) and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights generally vary significantly within the region in which the Group operates. In some countries, the laws offer significantly less protection for creditors than the bankruptcy regimes in Western Europe and the United States. If the current economic crisis persists or worsens, bankruptcies could intensify, or applicable bankruptcy protection laws and regulations may change to limit the impact of the recession on corporate and retail borrowers. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in consumer protection laws might limit the fees that the Group may charge in certain banking transactions. Changes in consumer protection laws in Greece, Turkey and other jurisdictions where the Group operates could limit the fees that banks may charge for certain products and services such as mortgages, unsecured loans and credit cards. If introduced, such laws could reduce the Group's profit for the period, though the amount of any such reduction cannot be estimated at this time. There can be no assurance that such effects will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to increasingly complex regulation which may increase our regulatory and capital requirements. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each jurisdiction in which it operates. All of these regulatory requirements have been changing and are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, following the unprecedented levels of Government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions, as a result of the financial crisis. In response to the global financial crisis, national governments as well as supranational groups, such as the EU, have been implementing significant changes to the existing regulatory frameworks, including those pertaining to capital adequacy, liquidity and scope of banks' operations (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). In June 2013, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted a new legislative package (known as CRD IV), which incorporate the amendments that have been proposed by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision in December 2010 (known as Basel III). Although the new regulations have been directly applicable to all EU Member States since January 1, 2014, changes under CRD IV will be implemented gradually, mainly between 2014 to 2019 (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece-Capital Adequacy Framework"). Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the impact on the Group of the full implementation of CRD IV and its transposition into Greek law, changes arising from the transposition may lead to an increase in our capital requirements and capital costs. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory framework (including requirements imposed by virtue of our participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives, such as the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan), we will face greater regulation in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey, SEE and the United States. Current and future regulatory requirements may be different across each of these locations and even requirements with EEA-wide application may be implemented or applied differently in different jurisdictions. Compliance with these new requirements may increase our regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and may increase our costs and disclosure requirements, restrict certain types of transactions, affect our strategy and limit or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on 32 Table of Contents certain loan and other products, any of which could lower the return on the Group's investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The new regulatory framework may have significant scope and may have unintended consequences for the global financial system, the Greek financial system or our business, including increasing competition, increasing general uncertainty in the markets or favoring or disfavoring certain lines of business. In addition, changes in law to address tax compliance issues such as compliance with the U.S Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act ("FATCA") may increase our compliance costs. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes on our business, financial condition, cash flows or future prospects. The Group may be subject to the provisions of the Recovery and Resolution Directive in the future. On May 6, 2014 the Council of the European Union adopted a directive providing for the establishment of an EU-wide framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms (the "Recovery and Resolution Directive" or "RRD"). The powers provided to authorities in the RRD are divided into three categories: (a) preparatory steps and plans to minimize the risks of potential problems (preparation and prevention); (b) in the event of incipient problems, powers to arrest a bank's deteriorating situation at an early stage so as to avoid insolvency (early intervention); and (c) if insolvency of an institution presents a concern as regards the general public interest, a clear means to reorganize or wind down the bank in an orderly fashion while preserving its critical functions and limiting to the maximum extent any exposure of taxpayers to losses in insolvency (resolution). The RRD currently contains four resolution tools and powers: (a) sale of business, which enables resolution authorities to the sale of the institution or the whole or part of its business on commercial terms without requiring the consent of the shareholders or complying with the procedural requirements that would otherwise apply; (b) bridge institution, which enables resolution authorities to transfer of all or part of the business of an institution to a "bridge bank" (a publicly controlled entity); (c) asset separation, which enables resolution authorities to transfer impaired or problem assets to an asset management vehicle to allow them to be managed and worked out over time; and (d) bail-in, which gives resolution authorities the power to write down the claims of senior unsecured creditors of a failing institution and subordinated creditors and to convert unsecured debt claims to equity (subject to certain parameters as to which liabilities would be eligible for the bail-in tool). Except for the senior debt bail-in (which is expected to be implemented by January 1, 2016), it is currently contemplated that the measures set out in the RRD (including the power of authorities to unite all non-common Tier I and Tier II capital) will be implemented in EU Member States with effect from January 1, 2015. The powers set out in the RRD will impact how credit institutions and investment firms are managed as well as, in certain circumstances, the rights of creditors. As such, it is too early to anticipate the full impact of the RRD, and there can be no assurance that, once it is implemented, shareholders and potential investors will not be adversely affected by actions taken under it. In addition, there can be no assurance that, once the RRD is implemented, its application will not have a significant impact on the Group's results of operations, business, assets, cash flows and financial condition, as well as on funding activities carried out by the Group and the products and services offered by the Group. The Group may be subject to a proposed EU regulation on mandatory separation of certain banking activities. On January 29, 2014, the European Commission adopted a proposal for a new regulation following the recommendations released on October 31, 2012 by the High Level Expert Group (the "Liikanen Group") on the mandatory separation of certain banking activities. The proposed regulation, which remains subject to change, contains new rules to stop the biggest and most complex banks from engaging in the activity of proprietary trading. The new rules would also give supervisors the power to 33 Table of Contents require those banks to separate certain trading activities from their deposit-taking business if the pursuit of such activities compromises financial stability. Alongside this proposal, the Commission has adopted accompanying measures aimed at increasing transparency of certain transactions in the shadow banking sector. The proposed regulation will apply to European banks that will eventually be designated as global systemically important banks ("G-SIBs") or that exceed the following thresholds for three consecutive years: (a) total assets are equal or exceed EUR 30 billion; or (b) total trading assets and liabilities are equal or exceed EUR 70 billion or 10% of their total assets. The banks that meet either one of the aforementioned conditions will be automatically banned from engaging in proprietary trading, defined narrowly as activities with no hedging purposes or no connection with customer needs. In addition, such banks will also be prohibited from investing in or holding shares in hedge funds, or entities that engage in proprietary trading or sponsor hedge funds. Other trading and investment banking activities—including market-making, lending to venture capital and private equity funds, investment and sponsorship of complex securitization, sales and trading of derivatives—are not subject to the ban, however they might be subject to separation. The proprietary trading prohibition would apply as of January 1, 2017 and the effective separation of other trading activities would apply as of July 1, 2018. Should a mandatory separation be imposed, additional costs at Group level are not ruled out, in terms of higher funding costs, additional capital requirements and operational costs due to the separation and lack of diversification benefits. Due to a relatively limited trading activity, Greek banks could be penalized and put at a relative disadvantage in comparison with their main European competitors. As a result, the proposal could lead to the creation of an oligopoly where only the biggest players will be able to support the separation of the trading activities and the costs that will be incurred. An additional layer of complexity, leading to uncertainty, is the high risk of diverging approaches throughout Europe on this issue. The Group may be affected by the ECB Single Supervisory Mechanism. On October 15, 2013, the Council of the European Union adopted regulations establishing a single supervisory mechanism (the "ECB Single Supervisory Mechanism") for Eurozone banks and other credit institutions, which will give the ECB, in conjunction with the national regulatory authorities of the Eurozone states, direct supervisory responsibility over "banks of systemic importance" in the Eurozone. Banks of systemic importance include, among others, any Eurozone bank that has: (i) assets greater than EUR 30 billion; (ii) assets constituting at least 20% of its home country's gross domestic product; or (iii) requested or received direct public financial assistance from the EFSF or the European Stability Mechanism. The ECB will also have the right to impose pecuniary sanctions and set binding regulatory standards. We will be a bank of systemic importance in the Eurozone. Prior to October 2014, the EBA will conduct a series of tests on the financial and liquidity condition of selected banks, including the Bank, including stress tests and asset quality tests, and will ensure that, once the ECB begins exercising its supervisory powers in October 2014, regular stress-tests will continue to be carried out to assess the resilience of European banks. National regulatory authorities will continue to be responsible for supervisory matters not conferred on the ECB, such as consumer protection, money laundering, payment services, and branches of third country banks. The ECB, on the other hand, will be exclusively responsible for prudential supervision, which includes, among others, the power to: (i) authorize and withdraw authorization from all "banks of systemic importance" in the Eurozone; (ii) assess acquisition and disposal of holdings in other banks; (iii) ensure compliance with all prudential requirements laid down in general EU banking rules; (iv) set, where necessary, higher prudential requirements for certain banks to protect financial stability under the conditions provided by EU law; (v) impose robust corporate governance practices 34 Table of Contents and internal capital adequacy assessment controls; and (vi) intervene at the early stages when risks to the viability of a bank exist, in coordination with the relevant resolution authorities. In order to foster consistency and efficiency of supervisory practices across the Eurozone, the EBA is continuing to develop a single supervisory handbook applicable to EU Member States (the "EBA Rulebook"). However, the EBA Rulebook has not yet been finalized. The CRD IV Regulation contains specific mandates for the EBA to develop draft regulatory or implementing technical standards as well as guidelines and reports related to liquidity, in order to enhance regulatory harmonization in Europe through the Single Rule Book. Specifically, the CRD IV Regulation tasks the EBA with advising on appropriate uniform definitions of liquid assets for the Liquidity Coverage Ratio buffer. In addition, the CRD IV Regulation states that the EBA shall report to the Commission on the operational requirements for the holdings of liquid assets. Furthermore, the CRD IV Regulation also tasks the EBA with advising on the impact of the LCR, on the business and risk profile of institutions established in the European Union, on the stability of financial markets, on the economy and on the stability of the supply of bank lending. The above topics were addressed by the EBA in two reports published in December 2013: (i) the impact assessment for liquidity coverage requirements and (ii) appropriate uniform definitions of extremely high quality assets and high quality liquid assets and on operational requirements for liquid assets. These two reports provide specific recommendations to the European Commission for the purpose of the forthcoming delegated act in June 2014. There is therefore some uncertainty as to the final form of these delegated acts. Also, the Basel Committee's oversight body issued in January 2013 additional contributions to the "Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio Agreement and Liquidity Risk Monitoring Tools", defining certain specific aspects in relation to the interaction between the Liquidity Coverage Ratio and the use of the Central Bank Committed Liquidity Facility. The Group may be affected by a proposed EU Financial Transactions Tax. On February 14, 2013 the European Commission published a legislative proposal on a new Financial Transactions Tax (the "FTT"). The proposal followed the Council's authorization to proceed with the adoption of the FTT through enhanced cooperation, i.e., adoption limited to 11 countries, including Greece. Although implementation was originally envisaged for January 1, 2014, the process has been delayed. Given the concerns voiced by both the financial sector and business associations, it is unclear how the FTT will proceed and when it will be implemented. If adopted, the impact on the 'real economy' of the FTT as currently envisaged—especially for corporations—could be severe as many financial transactions are made on behalf of businesses that would bear the additional costs of the tax. For example, a transaction tax would raise the cost of the sale and purchase of corporate bonds in a time where it is widely acknowledged that access to capital markets by corporate issuers has to be incentivized. The loss of senior management may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. Our current senior management team includes a number of executives we believe contribute significant experience and expertise to our management in the banking sectors in which we operate. The continued performance of our business and our ability to execute our business strategy will depend, in large part, on the efforts of our senior management. For instance, a change of government in the Hellenic Republic, or a situation of effective control by the HFSF could lead to the departure of certain senior managers. If a substantial portion of our senior management leaves us, our business may be materially adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents We may be unable to recruit or retain experienced and/or qualified personnel. Our competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified and experienced banking and management personnel. Competition in the Greek, Turkish and other SEE banking industries for personnel with relevant expertise is intense due to the relatively limited availability of qualified individuals. To recruit qualified and experienced employees and to minimize the possibility of their departure, we provide compensation packages consistent with evolving standards in the relevant labor markets. Under the terms of the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan, as currently applicable, the Bank is prohibited from paying bonuses to the members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and any general managers or their deputies. In any case, remuneration of the abovementioned personnel should not exceed the Bank of Greece Governor's remuneration. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis and regulatory restrictions on bonus payments, we are limiting or restricting the bonuses we pay our personnel, which may inhibit the retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel. The inability to recruit and retain qualified and experienced personnel in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE, or manage our current personnel successfully, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. This risk has increased in view of the current economic situation in Greece. We, like any other credit institution, are exposed to the risk of fraud and illegal activities of any form, which, if not dealt with in a timely manner and successfully, could have negative effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to rules and regulations related to combating money laundering and terrorism financing in the jurisdictions where we operate. Compliance with anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing rules entails significant cost and effort. Non-compliance with these rules may have serious consequences, including adverse legal and reputational consequences. Although we believe that our current anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing policies and procedures are adequate to ensure compliance with applicable legislation, we cannot guarantee that they will comply at all times with all rules applicable to money laundering and terrorism financing as extended to the whole Group and applied to its staff in all circumstances. A possible violation, or even any suspicion of a violation of these rules, may have serious adverse legal and financial impacts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We could be exposed to significant future pension and post-employment benefit liabilities. The employees of the Bank and certain of our subsidiaries participate in employee-managed pension schemes. The Bank and certain of our subsidiaries make significant contributions to these schemes. In addition, the Bank and several of our subsidiaries offer other post-employment benefit plans, including medical benefit plans. Our consolidated net liability under these plans as at December 31, 2013 was EUR 530.0 million, determined by reference to a number of critical assumptions. These include assumptions about movements in interest rates which may not be realized. Potential variation may cause us to incur significantly increased liability in respect of these obligations. For more information on our current obligations under pension plans and the assumptions by reference to which they are determined, please refer to Item 6.D, "Employees" and Note 40 of the U.S. GAAP Financial Statements. Any amendment in legislation regarding pensions and pension liabilities or other post-employment benefit obligations, including those under the Program, may increase the liability of the Bank or its subsidiaries with respect to pension and other post-employment benefit plan contributions to cover actuarial or operating deficits of those plans. 36 Table of Contents The Greek banking sector is subject to strikes, which may adversely affect the Group's operations. Most of the Bank's employees belong to a union and the Greek banking industry has been subject to strikes over the issues of pensions and wages. Bank employees throughout the Hellenic Republic went on strike for 12 days in 2013. In 2014, Bank employees have gone on strike one day (through April 14, 2014), largely to express their opposition to the new austerity measures implemented in light of the Program. Greek bank unions in general participate in general strikes which have increased. Prolonged labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations in the Hellenic Republic, either directly or indirectly, for example by affecting the willingness or ability of the Government to pass the reforms necessary to successfully implement the Program. The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgments and estimates that may change over time or may not be accurate. In establishing the fair value of certain financial instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilize observable financial market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilized by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in financial market conditions. In such circumstances, the Group's internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgments and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgments and estimates the Group is often required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows. Such assumptions, judgments and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Group's earnings and financial condition. Also, market volatility and illiquidity such as experienced over the past several years can challenge the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the Group's financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. We are exposed to credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. As a result of our activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. Among the most significant of these risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. Failure to control these risks could result in material adverse effects on our financial performance and reputation. •Credit Risk. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss relating to the failure of a borrower to honor its contractual obligations against the Group. It arises in lending activities as well as in various other activities where we are exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as our trading, capital markets and settlement activities. The risk of counterparty default is the largest single risk we face. •Market Risk. Market risk arises due to the uncertainty regarding the changes in market prices and rates (including interest rates, equity and bond prices and foreign exchange rates) and their levels of volatility. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect our net interest margin. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets or financial conditions generally may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. We have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which our portfolios are also exposed. However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to 37 Table of Contents anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our financial performance and business operations. See "—We are exposed to foreign exchange risk, and a possible devaluation of any of the currencies in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our assets, including our loan portfolio, and our results of operations" and "—Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences". •Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is defined as the current or prospective risk to earnings and capital arising from an entity's inability to meet its liabilities when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. It reflects the potential mismatch of payment obligations to incoming payments, taking into account unexpected delays in repayments (term liquidity risk) or unexpectedly high payment outflows (withdrawal/call risk). Liquidity risk involves both the risk of unexpected increases in the cost of funding a portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner on reasonable terms. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access to markets for the Bank, which currently relies almost entirely on the ECB and the Bank of Greece (see "—Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis—We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB and the Bank of Greece for funding, which may be affected by changes in ECB and Bank of Greece rules relating to the eligibility of collateral used for funding such as Greek government bonds and guarantees", Item 5.B "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Item 11 "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk"). •Operational Risk. Operational risk corresponds to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether deliberate, accidental or natural occurrences. Internal events include, but are not limited to, fraud by employees, clerical and record keeping errors and information systems malfunctions or manipulations. External events include floods, fires, earthquakes, riots or terrorist attacks, fraud by outsiders and equipment failures. Finally, we may also fail to comply with regulatory requirements or conduct of business rules. •Insurance Risk. The principal risk that the Group may face under its insurance policies is that the actual claims and benefit payments, or the timing thereof, differ from expectations. This could occur because the frequency or severity of claims is greater than estimated. Depending on the insurance product, this risk is influenced by macroeconomic changes, changes in customer behavior, changes in public health, pandemics and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, industrial disasters, fires, riots or terrorism. Although Management believes that its risk management and risk mitigation policies are adequate, our risk management processes may not prevent all instances of fraud or otherwise allow us to mitigate or fully manage the above risks. In addition, continuing volatility as a result of market forces out of our control could cause the Bank's liquidity position to deteriorate. Such deterioration would increase funding costs and limit the Bank's capacity to increase its credit portfolio and the total amount of its assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk, and a possible devaluation of any of the currencies in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our assets, including our loan portfolio, and our results of operations. Certain loans granted by the Group are denominated in currencies other than euro. A devaluation of any such currencies in which we operate or in which we have loan exposure may require us to take an impairment charge. Further, the Group may incur credit losses as certain borrowers may be exposed to interest payments on loans in foreign currencies while having income in local currencies. 38 Table of Contents Any significant devaluation in any currency in which we have loan exposure would make it more difficult for our customers to repay their loans, and the credit risk associated with such customers and default rates could increase. In addition, any significant movements in any currency in which we operate, particularly the Turkish Lira, could cause adverse foreign exchange effects on our financial statements particularly affecting our reported results and adversely affecting our balance sheet. Our results of operations and financial position, reported in euro, would also be adversely affected by the relative weakness of the currency of any other country in which we operate compared to the euro. Conversely, a devaluation of the euro against other currencies in which loans are made to customers would result in an increase in our loan portfolio, resulting in growth in risk-weighted assets and a negative impact on capital ratios. Exchange rate movements could have a significant effect on our balance sheet positions and, over the long term, our results of operations, which are stated in euro. Our economic hedging may not prevent losses. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we use to economically hedge our exposure to market risk is not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. Unexpected market developments therefore may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Moreover, we do not economically hedge all of our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we are exposed to TL fluctuations and do not always economically hedge this exposure. We have not hedged the sovereign credit risk of the Hellenic Republic. The Group's operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, vulnerable to an increasing risk of continually evolving cyber-security or other technological risks which could result in the disclosure of confidential client or customer information, damage to the Group's reputation, additional costs to the Group, regulatory penalties and financial losses. A significant portion of the Group's operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a minute-by-minute basis. The Group stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. These activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber attacks, the nature of which is continually evolving. The Group's computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to the Group's reputation with its clients and the market, additional costs to the Group (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both the Group and its clients. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Group (such as the lack of availability of the Group's online banking systems), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. Given the volume of transactions at the Group, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these costs and consequences. In addition, third parties with which the Group does business under stringent contractual agreements, may also be sources of cyber security or other technological risks. The Group outsources a limited number of supporting functions, such as printing of customer credit card statements, which 39 Table of Contents results in the storage and processing of customer information. Although the Group adopts a range of actions to eliminate the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as not allowing third-party access to the production systems and operating a highly controlled IT environment, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents could occur, resulting in similar costs and consequences to the Group as those discussed above. While the Group maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks such as fraud and financial crime, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Our loan portfolio may continue to contract. In the current economic environment, our Greek loan portfolio may continue to decline, and our foreign loan portfolio may not grow at historic rates or may even decline. Furthermore, there are a limited number of high credit quality customers to whom banking services may be provided in our target markets. Developments in our loan portfolio will be affected by, among other factors, the health of the Greek economy in light of the economic crisis and the Program. The continuing decline in our loan portfolio, in combination with non-accruing loans, may further reduce our net interest income, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be subject to additional taxes. Due to the uncertainty regarding the success of the Program, new taxes may be imposed on the Group, and existing taxes may be increased. Greek Law 4110/2013 provides that for the periods commencing from January 1, 2013 thereon, the nominal corporation tax rate is increased to 26%. Furthermore, for profit distributions approved from January 1, 2014 onwards withholding tax is reduced to 10%. In addition, at the European Council Summit held on June 17, 2010, representatives agreed that Member States should introduce a system of levies and taxes on financial institutions to promote an equitable distribution of the costs of the global financial crisis. Any additional taxes imposed on us in the future, or any increases in tax rates, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting under US GAAP could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in this annual report is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and that it is accumulated and communicated to our Management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. As at December 31, 2013, we performed an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our Management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. 40 Table of Contents Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are ineffective as at December 31, 2013, due to the fact that Management identified a material weakness resulting from the combination of significant deficiencies in its Internal Control over Financial Reporting related to the lack of sufficient personnel with appropriate U.S. GAAP knowledge and the reliance on several complex manual processes to extract and process high volumes of information from the core banking systems in order to generate the U.S. GAAP financial statements, the controls over which are dependent on such staff carrying out this controls timely. The above significant deficiencies aggregated into a material weakness. See Item 15 "Controls and Procedures". Although we have initiated remedial steps to address this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, the existence of that material weakness could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Furthermore, further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our material controls would also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of both money and management's time to comply with applicable requirements. Risks Relating to Our Operations Outside of the Hellenic Republic Our Turkish operations make a significant contribution to our net income, and operating in Turkey carries certain macroeconomic and political risks. Turkish operations through Finansbank, our Turkish subsidiary, represented 21.8% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2013 compared to 23.7% as at December 31, 2012 and accounted for 48.6% net interest income before provisions for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to 45.1% for the year ended December 31, 2012. As a result, the Group is subject to operating risks in Turkey, including the following: •Turkey is facing a particularly challenging year, due to tightening global liquidity conditions, as the FED started tapering asset purchases in December 2013, large external financing needs, and the loaded electoral calendar (local elections held in March 2014 and presidential elections to be held in August). A major political crisis has recently brought additional uncertainty to this challenging outlook. This uncertainty has further increased since December 2013, when a 14-month corruption investigation into the upper levels of the Government was suddenly announced by the Judiciary. This investigation has led to the resignation of three senior ministers in Prime Minister Erdogan's government, whose sons were among those detained as part of the investigation. Furthermore, police intervention into a group of environmentalists protesting against a government project in late May initiated a series of violent protests (known as "Gezi Park" protests) during the summer of 2013. However, the ruling AKP managed to come ahead in the March 2014 local elections, retaining the control of mayoralties in Turkey's two biggest cities which has helped calm the market concerns regarding political stability. However, in the run-up to August presidential elections similar political turbulence that may result in heightened financial volatility cannot be ruled out. A protracted period of high uncertainty would have a negative impact on economic growth, inflation, and the Turkish lira, and therefore, on Finansbank's business, financial condition and results of operations. •As a result of the ongoing political unrest in the Middle East, particularly in Syria and Egypt, political and economic risks around Turkey's foreign policy remain escalated. The security situation in the Middle East continues to be fragile. These risks may have an impact on the Turkish economy and consequently, on the Group's operations in Turkey. •Since the early 1980s, the Turkish economy has undergone a transformation from a highly protected state-directed system to a more free market economy, experiencing a general growth 41 Table of Contents trend since 1992, averaging 4.1% per annum between 1992 and 2013. However, the Turkish economy has experienced a succession of financial crises, most notably in 2000 and 2001, as well as macroeconomic imbalances, including substantial budget deficits, significant balance of payments deficits, high inflation rates and high real interest rates. Turkey's economy is exposed to the effects of the continuing global credit difficulties, having experienced four successive quarters of deep recession between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the third quarter of 2009 before Turkey's GDP subsequently grew again, by 9.2% in 2010, 8.8% in 2011 and 2.2% in 2012. Despite the European economic crisis, the rate of growth of the Turkish economy has increased to 4.0% in 2013. Nevertheless, growth prospects for Turkey in 2014 appear to be severely hampered by the escalating domestic political risks and tightening of the global financial conditions. Future negative developments in the Turkish economy could impair Finansbank's business strategies and have a materially adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. •Turkey remains dependent on external financing, and its economy is highly exposed to a turnaround in global activity and investor sentiment. In the 2010-2013 period, Turkey's current account deficit (as ratio to GDP) averaged 7.5%, and stood at 7.9% in 2013. Nevertheless, as global yields rise and political tensions escalate, the level of external deficit that Turkey can sustain may be subject to decrease, and the transition to a narrower external deficit would occur via a weaker currency. As balance sheets are vulnerable to currency depreciation due to short foreign currency positions, losses stemming from exchange rate movements may likely lead to cutbacks on investment spending. Furthermore, political tensions and financial market volatility are likely to negatively affect consumer and business confidence. These developments are expected to weigh on Turkey's growth. Moreover, the weakness of the Turkish lira and the reluctance of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey ("CBRT") to implement substantial increases in short term interest have resulted in deterioration of the inflation outlook. The rate of consumer price inflation stood at 7.4% at the end of 2013, and is expected to 8% at the end of 2014, according to the CBRT's March 2014 expectations survey. If the macroeconomic outlook continues to deteriorate, Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. •Historically, the Turkish currency has been subject to significant volatility against the Euro and other currencies. For example, the Turkish Lira depreciated by 25.3% against the Euro and by 20.4% against the U.S. dollar between December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. Since the acquisition of Finansbank by the Group on August 18, 2006 until January 20, 2014, the Turkish lira depreciated by 56.8% against the Euro and by 46.0% against the U.S. dollar. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the value of the Bank's investment in Finansbank and on the Group's overall profitability. The Group has taken steps in the past to reduce its exposure to the exchange rate fluctuations of the Turkish Lira and intends to continue implementing such initiatives; however, such protection may not be available on as favorable terms as have been available in the past or at all and may not provide a sufficient hedge against such fluctuations. •The Group believes the general level of macroeconomic and political risk to be higher in Turkey than in a number of countries whose economies and banking markets are more developed and that are already members of the EU. While the Group believes there is potential for substantial growth in the Turkish banking market over the long run, in the short-run growth may not occur, or Finansbank may be unable to benefit from that growth. Adverse macroeconomic and political events, that limit economic growth in Turkey or restrict the growth of the banking market may adversely affect Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, various new laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that affect the Group's business in Turkey. For instance, the CBRT raised 42 Table of Contents reserve requirement ratios during the period of January to May 2013. The CBRT also raised reserve option coefficients and imposed upper limits on overdue interest rates on overdraft deposit accounts and corporate credit cards. Likewise, the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency—("BRSA") imposed a number of new regulations primarily concerning consumer credits and credit cards. Any failure by Finansbank to adopt adequate responses to these or other future changes in the regulatory framework could adversely affect Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. •The CBRT significantly tightened its monetary policy stance in an emergency Monetary Policy Meeting in January 2014 and stands ready to tighten further if depreciation pressures do not dissipate. Amid intensifying sell-offs in emerging markets, the CBRT significantly increased its effective funding rate by 280 bps from the January 2014 average of 7.2%, at the extraordinary January Monetary Policy Committee Meeting, and such aggressive intervention in the foreign exchange market ineffectively contained the Turkish Lira's depreciation, which may continue to have a negative impact on growth, inflation, and the profitability of the banking sector. The viability of the Turkish banking sector, and therefore of Finansbank, will be adversely affected by weakening lending activity and narrowing net interest margin, reflecting the fact that the upward loan repricing is likely to take two quarters while upward deposit repricing is almost immediate. Any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations may lead to an accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits and could cause an increase in our costs of funding. Historically, Finansbank's principal sources of funds have included individual deposits. All of Finansbank's individual deposits are effectively short-term deposits (the average maturity of individual deposits as at December 31, 2013 was approximately 62.5 days), which could expose Finansbank to liquidity risks if retail customers were to withdraw large amounts of their deposits or do not roll over their term deposits upon maturity. Although customer deposits have increased at December 31, 2013 by 21.6% compared to December 31, 2012 (in TL terms), any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations could significantly increase the amount of individual deposit withdrawals in a short space of time or result in higher interest rates on individual deposits, which in turn could significantly increase Finansbank's cost of funding. Finansbank also relies heavily upon other types of short-term liabilities in addition to individual deposits for its funding. As at December 31, 2013, 52.8% of Finansbank's borrowed funds and issued debt securities had maturity of less than one year. Given such reliance upon short-term liquidity, there can be no assurance that, in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system or otherwise, Finansbank will be able to maintain its levels of funding and at commercially reasonable terms. A deterioration of the credit quality of Finansbank's loans could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. The 2009 economic downturn had an adverse effect on the financial condition of some of Finansbank's corporate and retail customers and, in some instances, ultimately affected their ability to service and repay their obligations. This has led to an increase in Finansbank's loans that are non-accruing, accompanied by increased allowance for loan losses. Over time, Finansbank has increased its exposure to retail customers, whose loans generally yield higher interest income but also tend to have higher levels of default than loans of corporate customers. There can be no assurance that continued weakness in consumer spending, high unemployment, decreased profitability of corporate businesses, increasing numbers of insolvencies and/or deterioration of the credit quality of corporate customers will not result in continued increases in the levels of Finansbank's impaired loans in the future. This could in turn, have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. 43 Table of Contents Finansbank's funding costs and its access to the debt capital markets may be affected by credit ratings. Any reduction in the current long-term ratings of Finansbank or any of its principal subsidiaries by rating agencies may increase Finansbank's funding costs, limit access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements. As a result, such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's ability to obtain financing, and consequently its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any deterioration in NBG's credit rating or any decrease in Turkey's sovereign credit rating could affect Finansbank's ability to obtain financing and, in turn, Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. Finansbank faces intense competition in the Turkish banking sector from private banks and Turkish government-owned financial institutions. The Turkish banking sector is highly competitive and has in recent years undergone a period of consolidation. As at December 31, 2013, there were a total of 45 banks (excluding the Turkish Central Bank and four "participation banks" (i.e., interest-free banking institutions)) licensed to operate in Turkey. A small number of these banks have a significant presence in the industry. According to the Banks Association of Turkey's published reports, as at September 30, 2013, the top seven private banks in Turkey held 54.3% of the banking sector's total loan portfolio and 53.6% of the total bank assets in Turkey. The intense competition may increase the pressure for Finansbank to expand the range and sophistication of its products and services currently offered as well as reducing its margins. Increased pricing competition in the Turkish banking markets through the offering of products at significantly lower prices may also impact customer behavior patterns and loyalty. Any failure to maintain customer loyalty or to offer customers a wide range of high quality, competitive products with consistently high levels of service could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, Finansbank may not realize increased business volumes or expected value from the investment in its branch network, which has expanded from 522 branches in 2011 to 582 in 2012 and to 674 in 2013. In addition, state-owned banks in Turkey have historically had access to inexpensive funding in the form of significant Turkish Government deposits, which has provided a competitive advantage over private banks. Finansbank's increased exposure to intense competition in each of its key areas of operation, may, among other things, limit Finansbank's ability to increase its customer base, maintain customer loyalty, reduce its asset growth rate and profit margins on services it provides and increase competition for investment opportunities. There can be no assurance, therefore, that the continuation of existing levels of competition or increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Turkish banking sector has experienced significant volatility in the past. The significant volatility in the Turkish currency and foreign exchange markets experienced in 1994, 1998 and 2001, combined with the short foreign exchange positions held by many Turkish banks at those times, affected the profitability and liquidity of certain Turkish banks. In 2001, this resulted in the collapse of several financial institutions. Following this crisis, the Turkish government made structural changes to the Turkish banking system to strengthen the private (i.e., non-governmental) banking sector and allow it to compete more effectively against the state owned banks. Notwithstanding such changes, the Turkish banking sector remains subject to volatility. If the general macro-economic conditions in Turkey and the Turkish banking sector in particular, were to suffer another period of volatility, there 44 Table of Contents can be no assurance that this would not result in further bank failures, reduced liquidity and weaker public confidence in the Turkish banking system. If Finansbank is required to hold higher levels of capital than anticipated by the market, this could have a material adverse impact on Finansbank's and the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Finansbank is subject to a number of banking and other regulations in Turkey, in particular those of the BRSA. Under Turkish law, a bank's capital adequacy ratio must be greater than or equal to 8% within the framework of the Regulation regarding the Measurement and Evaluation of Capital Adequacy of Banks. Despite the 8% minimum capital adequacy ratio requirement, the BRSA's approach is, and will continue to be, to prohibit banks having a capital adequacy ratio of less than 12% from opening new branches. In accordance with these guidelines, because Finansbank intends to open new branches from time to time, it must maintain a capital adequacy ratio in excess of 12%. Furthermore, the BRSA is authorized to increase the minimum capital adequacy ratio or to set different ratios for each bank by taking into consideration such banks' internal control systems as well as their asset and financial structures. Since June 2012, Turkish banks have been required to measure and report their capital adequacy in compliance with Basel II, as adopted in Turkey. Within the framework of Basel III, as adopted in Turkey, requirements regarding regulatory capital, liquidity, leverage and counterparty credit risk measurement are either required to be implemented or expected to be implemented gradually between 2014 and 2019. Although the impact on Finansbank's capital ratios from adopting Basel II was positive, requirements relating to the implementation of Basel III may have an adverse effect on Finansbank's capital ratios. Changes relating to Basel III, as well as any uncertainty in financial markets may change regulations or market expectations, which could have the result of banks having to hold higher capital levels than currently expected. Definitions of capital tiers may also be subject to further change. Any further changes could require Finansbank to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of greater than the 12% that is currently required by the BRSA. This could adversely impact the Finansbank's operational flexibility or ability to implement its growth strategy and could reduce income growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct significant international activities in SEE operations, which carries certain political, governmental or macroeconomic risks. Apart from our operations in the Hellenic Republic and Turkey, we have built up substantial operations in the SEE countries of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia, FYROM and Albania ("SEE-5") and other developing economies. The Group's SEE operations accounted for 9.8% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2013 compared to 10.1% as at December 31, 2012 and 9.5% of our net interest income before provisions for loan losses at and for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our SEE-5 operations are exposed to the risk of adverse political, governmental or economic developments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, most of the countries outside the Hellenic Republic in which we operate are emerging markets in which we face particular operating risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our SEE-5 operations also expose us to foreign currency risk. A decline in the value of the currencies in which our SEE-5 subsidiaries receive their income or value their assets relative to the value of the Euro may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The economic crisis in Greece may: •materially adversely affect the operations of our SEE-5 subsidiaries; 45 Table of Contents •increase depositors' concerns in these countries regarding the creditworthiness of the Hellenic Republic and the Bank, which may, in turn, affect their willingness to continue to do business with our international subsidiaries; and •result in local governmental intervention. Risks Relating to the Markets There can be no assurance that the Bank will continue to satisfy the continued listing eligibility criteria of the listing rules of the ATHEX or the NYSE if additional capital is provided by HFSF. There can be no assurance that the Bank will continue to satisfy the free float eligibility criteria of the listing rules of the ATHEX in case additional capital support is provided by the HFSF and the free float eligibility criteria may not be satisfied and the ATHEX may reclassify the Bank's share into another listing segment, namely the `"Low Free Float Segment" or even the "To be Delisted Segment". If the free float eligibility criteria remain unsatisfied for a period of circa one year the ATHEX may commence delisting proceedings against the Bank's ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX. The NYSE may commence delisting of our ADRs if the Bank fails to meet certain continued listing criteria, in particular the so-called "price condition". According to the "price condition", if the price of the ADRs falls below US$1 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, the ADRs will be considered to be "below criteria" and subject to potential suspension and delisting procedures by the NYSE. Exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on the value of our shares. The market price of our shares traded on the ATHEX is denominated in Euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Euro and other currencies may affect the value of the Bank's shares in the local currency of investors in the United States and other countries that have not adopted the Euro as their currency. Additionally, any cash dividends on our ordinary shares are paid in Euros and, therefore, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations when converted to an investor's local currency, including U.S. dollars. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major exchanges. The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is the ATHEX. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major stock markets in Western Europe and the United States. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty assessing the past performance of the ordinary shares based on our prior trading record on the ATHEX. In 2013, the average daily trading value on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 87 million, while in the first three months of 2014 it was approximately EUR 108 million. In comparison, the average daily trading value on the London Stock Exchange was approximately GBP 4.0 billion in 2013. As at December 31, 2013, the aggregate market value of all shares listed on the ATHEX was EUR 66.5 billion, while as at March 31, 2014 it was EUR 75.1 billion. The market value of our ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX on December 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014, was EUR 9.4 billion and EUR 9.3 billion, representing approximately 14.1% and 12.5%, respectively, of the capitalization of all companies listed on the ATHEX. We cannot make assurances about the future liquidity of the market for our shares. There may be limited liquidity resulting from the HFSF's concentrated ownership of our ordinary shares. The HFSF was and after the share capital increase completed on May 13, 2014, continued to be our most significant shareholder (84.4% before and 57.2% after). This concentration of ownership, together with uncertainty as to whether market conditions will permit the HFSF to dispose, through the 46 Table of Contents exercise of its warrants, of the Ordinary Shares it holds, may discourage, delay or prevent holders of the warrants from exercising their rights. Due to the potentially low trading volume of our Ordinary Shares, it may be difficult for you to sell our Ordinary Shares at the price or time of your choice, which may result in you receiving a lower price for our Ordinary Shares than would be the case if our Ordinary Shares were more actively traded on the ATHEX. We cannot assure you that the trading market of our Ordinary Shares will become more liquid in the future, or that the trading volume of our Ordinary Shares will not decrease further into the future. Exercise of the warrants or future sales of ordinary shares could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. As at the date of this report, 245,748,580 warrants issued by the HFSF were outstanding permitting holders to acquire, for each warrant held 8.22923881005499 Ordinary Shares, representing a total of 2,022,323,827 (or 57.2%) of our ordinary shares following the completion of the 2014 share capital increase. The warrants must be exercised within a period of 54 months following their issuance on June 26, 2013. In addition, following a 36-month lock-up period from the date of issuance of the warrants, the HFSF may sell or transfer the ordinary shares underlying the warrants, provided it gives applicable notice to the warrant holders. Pursuant to the HFSF's founding law, the HFSF must dispose of the ordinary shares within an initial period of five years of the date of issuance on June 26, 2013. If any of the outstanding warrants are exercised or if the HFSF sells or indicates an intention to sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that the exercise of warrants or future sales of our ordinary shares by the HFSF or the availability of these ordinary shares for sale will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Upon completion of the 2014 increase, we will have 3,533,149,631 ordinary shares outstanding. Our share price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our shares has been subject to significant volatility in the past, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: •the overall condition of the Greek economy and budget deficit; •the perceived stability of the Economic and Monetary Union; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •results of operations of our competitors; •potential changes in banking regulatory regimes; •potential or actual sales of large amounts of the Bank's shares into the market; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •conditions and trends in the banking sector in Greece and elsewhere in Europe; •the condition of the Turkish and other economies in which we do business; and •the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the Greek, Turkish, other SEE-5 and financial services sectors). The share price may also be subject to volatility due to the commitment of the HFSF to sell part or all of its shares in the Bank within certain time limits. In addition, brokers' estimates as to the value of our shares may not necessarily reflect the actual value of our shares at any given time, and investors 47 Table of Contents should therefore not place undue reliance on such estimates as indicators of our future growth or profitability. For the annual high and low market prices of the Bank's shares on the ATHEX for the five most recent financial years see Item 9.A, "Offer and Listing Details". The exercise of pre-emptive rights may not be available to U.S. holders of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts. Under Greek Law and our Articles of Association, prior to the issuance of any new ordinary shares, and unless this requirement is waived by our shareholders in a shareholders meeting, we must offer holders of our existing ordinary shares pre-emptive rights to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of ordinary shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages. These pre-emptive rights are generally transferable during the rights trading period for the related share capital increase and may be traded on the ATHEX. Holders in the United States of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares evidenced by ADRs may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for any such offering of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act, is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement with respect to any future offering will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ordinary shares and ADRs to exercise their pre-emptive rights and any other factors we may consider appropriate at the time. If holders in the United States of the Bank's ordinary shares and ADRs are not able to exercise pre-emptive rights granted in respect of their shares in any rights offering by us, they might not receive the economic benefit of such rights. In addition, their proportional ownership interests in the Bank will be diluted. Non-Greek entity shareholders, including U.S. entity shareholders, may be subject to Greek tax on gains arising on the sale of shares. Unless a non-Greek entity shareholder benefits from a tax treaty with Greece that exempts such gains from Greek taxation, gains arising from the sale of listed shares of Greek companies may be subject to taxation in the same manner as those realized by Greek resident entities (generally at a rate of 26% or 33%). In respect of a non-Greek entity shareholder with no permanent establishment in Greece who is resident of a country which has a tax treaty which contains an exemption from Greek tax on capital gains, an exemption from such tax may be available if the entity produces appropriate documentation evidencing its tax residence in the treaty jurisdiction. While it is also possible that Greek tax law may be interpreted as providing an exemption from such tax for a non-Greek entity shareholder with no permanent establishment in Greece who does not benefit from a tax treaty exempting such gains, a different approach could also be taken on the same issue. The United States' tax treaty with Greece does not contain an exemption from such taxes on gains and therefore, based on such different interpretation of Greek tax law, U.S. entity shareholders may be subject to Greek tax at a rate of 26% or 33% on gains arising from disposition of shares. No specific guidance has been provided by the Greek tax administration to date, and precedents do not exist, as to how any potential tax on capital gains generated by non-Greek entities from the sale of listed shares of Greek companies would be assessed and collected. Because capital gains are generally U.S. source for U.S. foreign tax credit purposes, a U.S. entity shareholder may not be able to credit any such Greek tax if it were required to be paid against its U.S. tax liability unless it has sufficient foreign source income from other sources in the appropriate basket for foreign tax credit purposes. 48 Table of Contents 