D. Risk Factors If you are considering purchasing our ordinary shares, preference shares or American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"), you should carefully read and think about all the information contained in this document, including the risk factors set out below, prior to making any investment decision. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the value and trading price of our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs may decline, resulting in a loss of all or a part of any investment in our ordinary shares, preference shares or ADRs. Furthermore, the risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risk factors not currently known or which are currently believed to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis Uncertainty resulting from the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis is having and is likely to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the financial year ended December 31, 2010, 53.6% of our total interest and non-interest income and as of December 31, 2010, 70.1% of our loans, were derived from our operations in the 12 Table of Contents Hellenic Republic. In addition, our holdings of EUR 10.9 billion in Greek government bonds represented 9.2% of our total assets, 127.9% of our total permanent equity and 60.5% of our fixed income portfolio (amounting to EUR 18.1 billion) as of December 31, 2010. Accordingly, the quality of our assets, our financial condition and our results of operations are heavily dependent on macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Greece. The Greek economy has faced and continues to face unprecedented macroeconomic headwinds since the beginning of 2010, originating from sizeable fiscal imbalances—the extent of which has been demonstrated with the release of the significantly revised estimates of the 2009 deficit and debt figures in October 2009—which were compounded by other deep-rooted structural vulnerabilities. These developments, in conjunction with the concomitant multi-notch downgrades of the Greek sovereign debt by all major rating agencies, starting in 2009 and continuing in 2010 and 2011, were translated into rapidly deteriorating financial market conditions for Greek assets (with increased yields on Greece's government bonds) and an effective closing of financial markets to Greek banks since April 2010. Specifically, in April 2010 the Hellenic Republic's credit rating was lowered by Fitch Ratings Ltd. ("Fitch") to BBB-, by Moody's Investors Services Limited ("Moody's") to A3 and by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("Standard & Poor's") to BB+, which is below investment grade. The credit rating of the Hellenic Republic has been subsequently lowered several times by all three credit rating agencies and as of June 16, 2011 was lowered by Standard & Poor's to CCC with a negative outlook, by Fitch to B+ with credit watch negative, and by Moody's to Caa1 with a negative outlook. See "—Our borrowing costs and liquidity levels may be negatively affected by further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating" for the chronology of the downgrades. In May 2010, the Greek government agreed to a stabilization program, jointly supported by the IMF, the ECB and the member states of the eurozone (the "IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program", see also Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis" and Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). As part of this Program, the Greek government committed to implement measures to decrease government expenses and increase revenues with a view to reducing the general government deficit, to below 3% by 2014 from an upwardly revised deficit of 15.5% of GDP in 2009. The original target for 2010 was 8.2% of GDP subsequently revised to 9.5% of GDP. The IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program projected Greek government debt to peak at an upwardly revised percentage of approximate 160% of GDP in 2013-2014 from an upwardly revised 127% of GDP in 2009. The revised targets reflect revisions undertaken at the time of the first review of the Program in the summer of 2010, and primarily reflect the redefinition of the general government deficit and debt, broadening its coverage. Despite strong efforts to reduce debt—measures equivalent to 7.5% of GDP were taken in 2010 and measures equivalent to 7% of GDP were expected in 2011—the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program was not meeting its conditions at the time of the fourth review commenced in May 2011. The general government deficit reached 10.5% of GDP in 2010, and tax revenue was significantly below target in the first quarter of 2011. In large part, the fiscal shortfall reflects a more severe recession than originally projected. GDP, in real terms, declined 2.1% in 2009, 4.2% in 2010 and is expected to decline 3.0% to 3.5% in 2011. As a result of the above developments, it appears likely that a new program will be proposed with funding from the IMF and the EU. It is expected that this new program will provide the Hellenic Republic additional time to reach its fiscal targets and implement structural reforms. It is also expected that debt reduction will be accelerated through the implementation of an ambitious privatization and government real estate development program. The conditions of this new program will likely include additional fiscal measures that will apply from 2011, including a medium-term fiscal adjustment program. Approval of the fiscal measures for 2011 and the medium-term fiscal adjustment program are 13 Table of Contents conditions for the completion of the fourth review of the existing Program prior to the release of the fifth tranche of IMF and EU funding support of EUR 12 billion. The new program may also include private sector participation only on a voluntary basis, renewing maturing Greek government debt with new purchases of Greek government debt. Although the form of such participation has recently been a subject of contention between the official creditors and the ECB, a solution may have been reached that seeks private sector participation on the condition that it does not trigger a technical default according to certain credit rating agencies. It should be noted that a technical default according to certain rating agencies would arise if a voluntary restructuring occurs under coercion and thus any form of voluntary participation runs the risk of triggering a technical default. An agreement between the official creditors on burden sharing between official and existing private sector creditors will have to be reached for the new program to be agreed. The details of the new program are likely to be agreed in late summer or early autumn 2011. Debt reduction was expected to be facilitated by a reduction in interest rates payable on loans to the EU. At the EU Summit on May 16, 2011, it was agreed to reduce the interest rate on EU loans to the Hellenic Republic by 100 basis points and to extend their maturity from 3.5 years to 7.5 years. Upon its ratification by EU member states, the decision will smooth the Greek government's redemption profile and reduce its borrowing needs in 2014 and 2015 by EUR 17 billion annually. For more information about the main elements of each reform and the substantial risks to the program, see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—The Macroeconomic Environment in Greece—The Hellenic Republic's Economic Crisis". The tensions relating to Greek public finance have affected the liquidity and profitability of the financial system in the Hellenic Republic and have resulted in: •lower market values for Greek government debt; •limited liquidity in the Greek banking system reflecting an effective closing of market financing since April 2010 and a sizeable contraction of the domestic deposit base in 2010 (of about 14% year-on-year according to Bank of Greece ("BoG") data) and a heavy reliance on ECB funding; •increased competition for, and thus cost of, customer deposits; •limited credit extension to customers; and •an increase in the amount of non-performing loans and impairments of loans reflecting the substantial impact of recession in the debt servicing ability of the Greek private sector (see "—Our borrowing costs and liquidity levels may be negatively affected by further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating"). Despite the Greek government's commitment to implement the necessary reforms which will be included in the likely successor program, certain analysts believe that there are concerns as to its eventual success. An agreement on a new program may fail to materialize. In addition, the fifth tranche under the existing program to be disbursed by early July 2011, is expected to be conditional on, among other things, the following elements which carry risks: (i) the approval by the Greek parliament of additional fiscal measures for 2011 of approximately EUR 6.5 billion; and (ii) the approval by the Greek parliament of the medium-term fiscal program containing measures of about EUR 22 billion. These elements challenge the unity of the governing socialist party. In this context, Greek political risk has also increased substantially in the past few months, with defections in the governing party and a reorganisation of the cabinet as well as increased social unrest. A failure to successfully implement the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program may lead to termination of the financial support by the IMF, the ECB and the EU, which would create the 14 Table of Contents conditions for a credit event with respect to Hellenic Republic debt or lead to a default by the Hellenic Republic on its debt. Such a credit event could happen as a result of many actions, including a re-profiling of amortization payments to extend those payments several years into the future and reducing their value, or even a restructuring of Greek debt constituting a large reduction in value to creditors. Even if the Hellenic Republic successfully implements the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program, government debt as a percentage of GDP is projected to rise to approximately 160% of GDP in 2013. It remains uncertain whether, even if the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program is successfully implemented, the Greek economy will grow sufficiently to ease the financing constraints of the Hellenic Republic. These concerns may result in a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic occurring earlier and prior to the completion of the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program. In this event, current macroeconomic conditions in Greece will be exacerbated. The market reaction will be negative and business activity will deteriorate, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our holdings of EUR 10.9 billion in Greek government bonds represented 9.2% of our total assets, 127.9% of our total permanent equity and 60.5% of our fixed income portfolio (amounting to EUR 18.1 billion) as of December 31, 2010. If a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic were to occur, our regulatory capital would be severely affected due to our direct exposure to the debt of the Hellenic Republic, requiring the Bank to raise additional capital and thus diluting existing shareholders significantly. There can be no assurance that the Bank could raise all the capital it needs on acceptable terms. Similar developments could be triggered by any further significant deterioration of global economic conditions, including the credit profile of other EU countries such as Ireland, Portugal, or the creditworthiness of Greek or international banks, which may give rise to concerns regarding the ability of the Hellenic Republic to meet its funding needs. These developments could: •directly impact the carrying amount of our portfolio of Greek government debt; •severely affect our ability to raise capital and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements; •severely limit our ability to access liquidity; and •negatively affect our capital position, results of operations and our financial condition. Recessionary pressures stemming from the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities are dependent on the level of banking, finance and financial products and services we offer, as well as our customers' capacity to repay their liabilities. In particular, their levels of savings and credit demand are heavily dependent on customer confidence, employment trends, the state of the economies in countries in which we operate, and the availability and cost of funding. Recessionary pressures may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The magnitude of the fiscal adjustments agreed under the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program and any subsequent amendments to this Program are likely to continue having a significant effect on economic activity in the Hellenic Republic, adding to the possible negative impact arising from the sharp drop in consumer and business confidence resulting from the recent economic crisis and ongoing sizeable macroeconomic imbalances. In this respect, the cumulative decline in economic activity between 2010 and 2011 is likely to exceed 7.5% taking a heavy toll on disposable income, spending and debt repayment capacity of the Greek private sector. If the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program is not implemented successfully—especially with respect to the 15 Table of Contents ambitious structural reform agenda, or if additional austerity measures are required to counterbalance potential deviations from the Program's targets—economic activity may register a sharper than initially expected drop in 2011, with the future recovery delayed further. The worsening macro economic conditions in the Hellenic Republic are materially adversely affecting the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our borrowers, which are in turn further increasing our non-performing loan ratios, impairing our loan and other financial assets and resulting in decreased demand for borrowings in general and increasing deposit outflows. Loans to businesses and households are expected to remain under considerable pressure in Greece as the sizeable downward pressure on household disposable incomes and firms' profitability from the austerity measures as well as the resulting deterioration in the business environment against a backdrop of tighter credit criteria and stressed liquidity conditions are likely to impair further demand for loans. In addition, the need to reduce our dependency on ECB funding will also increase the likelihood of deleveraging, reducing our loans to the economy. Moreover, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. In the context of continued market turmoil, worsening macro-economic conditions and increasing unemployment, coupled with declining consumer spending and business investment and the worsening credit profile of our corporate and retail borrowers, the value of assets collateralizing our secured loans, including houses and other real estate, could decline significantly. Such a decline could result in impairment of the value of our loan assets or an increase in the level of non-performing loans, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB for funding and liquidity, which may be affected by changes in ECB rules relating to the eligibility of collateral such as Greek government bonds and guarantees. Concerns relating to the impact of the economic crisis may adversely affect the Bank's credit risk profile, delay its return to the markets for funding, increase the cost of such funding and/or trigger additional collateral requirements in repo contracts and other secured funding arrangements, including with the ECB. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access of the Bank to the capital markets for funding, particularly unsecured funding and funding from the short-term inter-bank market because of concerns by counterparty banks. These markets are now effectively closed to all Greek banks. Since the end of 2009, maturing inter-bank liabilities have not been renewed, or have been renewed only at higher costs. In addition, deposit outflows beginning in late 2009 and continuing through to the first half of 2011 continue to put pressure on the liquidity position of many Greek banks. Reflecting the loss of access to market funding as well as the sharp decline in deposits, our net ECB funding has increased considerably since the start of the crisis. As at December 31, 2010, our net ECB funding amounted to EUR 19.9 billion. As at December 31, 2010, the total amount of the instruments pledged in favor of the ECB exceeded EUR 35 billion, including EUR 12 billion of guarantees provided under the second pillar of the Hellenic Republic bank support plan (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—The Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan"). Access to ECB funding collateralized by Greek government bonds has been maintained by ECB rule changes. In May 2010, the ECB announced that it would suspend certain minimum credit rating requirements for Greek government bonds and would accept Greek government bonds as collateral, irrespective of their credit rating. The ECB has not yet determined the length of the period of 16 Table of Contents suspension of the rating requirement. In addition, the ECB has also permitted the use of bank issued bonds, benefiting from Greek government guarantees, as eligible collateral for liquidity purposes, a rule change applying to all member countries. The ECB has purchased Greek government bonds in the secondary market, thus supporting their valuation and therefore their value as collateral. The liquidity we receive from the ECB may also be affected by changes in ECB rules. Specifically, the suspension of the ECB's minimum rating requirement in respect of Greek government bonds may end at a time when the Greek government's credit ratings make it ineligible for use in ECB liquidity operations. In addition, the amount of funding available from the ECB is tied to the value of the collateral we provide, including the market value of our holdings of Greek government bonds, which itself may decline in response to ratings actions. If the value of our assets declines, then the amount of funding we can obtain from the ECB will be correspondingly limited. In addition, if the ECB were to revise its collateral standards or increase the rating requirements for collateral securities such that these instruments were not eligible to serve as collateral with the ECB, this could materially increase the Group's funding costs and limit its access to liquidity. The ECB could also place time limitations on the use of government guaranteed securities as eligible collateral, and may set conditions for the continued use of liquidity under exceptional terms. Furthermore, it is unclear how long the ECB will offer unlimited access to short-term repos, or continue its bond purchase program. In the event these exceptional terms are terminated, or the terms on which such access is offered change in a way which materially prejudices the Bank, this could adversely affect our access to liquidity and increase its funding costs significantly. In addition, we use our covered bonds for use as collateral with the ECB. Our covered bonds may also become ineligible for use as collateral as a result of further credit ratings downgrades. If Greek sovereign ratings are further downgraded, are rated as defaults or are withdrawn, this will likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to access current levels of funding from the ECB, or access such funding at all. An accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits could cause an increase in our costs of funding and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity prospects. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been customer deposits. Since we rely on customer deposits for the majority of our funding, if our depositors withdraw their funds at a rate faster than the rate at which borrowers repay their loans, or if we are unable to obtain the necessary liquidity by other means, we may be unable to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain of our assets, or increase access to the ECB under its exceptional terms. In 2010, an outflow of customer deposits, which we believe mainly reflected concerns regarding the Hellenic Republic's economic crisis, as well as higher liquidity needs of domestic depositors following the increase in Greek VAT in 2010, led to a decrease in the Group's domestic deposits excluding interbank deposits at December 31, 2010 by 11.4% compared with December 31, 2009. This outflow of domestic deposits has continued in 2011, in line with market outflows as reported by the BoG in June 2011, for the four months period to April 30, 2011. The ongoing availability of customer deposits to fund the Bank's loan portfolio is subject to potential changes in certain factors outside the Bank's control, such as depositors' concerns relating to the economy in general, the financial services industry or the Bank specifically, ratings downgrades, significant further deterioration in economic conditions in Greece and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees. Any of these factors on their own or in combination could lead to a reduction in the Bank's ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms in the future and to sustained deposit outflows, both of which would impact on the Bank's ability to fund its operation and meet its minimum liquidity requirements. 17 Table of Contents Any loss in consumer confidence in the Bank's banking businesses, or in banking businesses generally, could significantly increase the amount of customer deposit withdrawals in a short period of time. If the Bank or its subsidiaries experience a sustained level of withdrawals, this may have an adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. Unusually high levels of withdrawals could prevent the Bank or another member of the Group from funding its operations and meeting its minimum liquidity requirements. In those extreme circumstances the Bank or another member of the Group may not be in a position to continue to operate without additional funding support, which it may be unable to secure. There are risks associated with the Bank's potential need for additional capital and liquidity, most notably from a higher-than-expected deterioration in asset quality, as well as greater-than-anticipated asset impairments. The Bank is required by regulators in the Hellenic Republic and other countries in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital. Where it undertakes regulated activities elsewhere in the European Economic Area (the "EEA"), it will remain subject to the minimum capital requirements prescribed by regulators in the Hellenic Republic, except in jurisdictions where it has regulated subsidiaries, which will be subject to the capital requirements prescribed by local regulators. The Bank is subject to the risk of having insufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirements. In addition, those minimum regulatory requirements are likely to increase in the future, the methods of calculating capital resources may change and/or the manner in which the existing regulatory requirements are applied may change. At the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010, the Bank in a preemptive attempt to fortify its capital position completed a share capital increase which totaled approximately EUR 1.8 billion in cash. As of December 31, 2010, the Group had a Tier I capital ratio of 13.1% and an overall capital adequacy ratio of 13.7%. The Bank has announced its intention subject to market conditions to sell a minority stake in its Turkish subsidiary, leaving its holdings at no less than 75%, which would provide an additional support to its capital ratios. Unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, however, may prevent any such sale from occuring. Effective management of the Bank's regulatory capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy. Any change that limits the Bank's ability to manage its balance sheet and regulatory capital resources effectively (including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets) or to access funding sources could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position. The Bank's ability to maintain its regulatory capital ratios could be affected by a number of factors during the current sovereign crisis in Greece. The Bank's Core Tier I ratio could be directly impacted by worse-than-expected after-tax results, a deterioration in credit quality of the Bank's assets that exceeds expectations, and most notably, greater than anticipated asset impairments or potential losses on its significant holdings of Hellenic Republic debt or in view of new regulatory requirements (currently BoG applies a regulatory filter on the valuation losses of the available-for-sale debt instruments and such losses are disregarded for capital adequacy purposes), or the occurence of a credit event with respect to the Hellenic Republic's debt. As at December 31, 2010, Greek government bonds represented 9.2% of total assets and 127.9% of total permanent equity. Moreover, in the current crisis, if more capital was needed, there is a risk that the Bank would be unable to raise all the capital it needs on acceptable terms. If the Bank is unable to raise the requisite capital, it may be required to further reduce the amount of its risk weighted assets and engage in the disposition of core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group. Any failure by the Bank to maintain its minimum regulatory capital ratios could result in administrative actions or other sanctions, which in 18 Table of Contents turn may have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operating results, financial condition and prospects (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). This could potentially lead to further capital injections from the Greek government, which would increase Greek government control of the Bank and dilute the interests of existing shareholders. The IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program and receipt of state aid may subject the Bank to additional burdens and subject our shareholders to potentially significant dilution. Declining profitability and the possibility of operating losses in what could be a drawn-out recession risks eroding the capital bases of Greek banks, including the Bank. The IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program, therefore, contains a third pillar in the form of the HFSF intended to maintain the stability of the Greek banking system by providing capital support in the form of preference or ordinary shares, if a significant decline in capital buffers occurs. The HFSF has been established under Greek Law 3864/2010. Any credit institution that, in the opinion of the BoG, runs a risk of failing to meet its capital adequacy requirements and that has not strengthened its own capital base through capital raisings from existing or new shareholders, may, either upon its own initiative or upon recommendation by the BoG, apply for the capital support available through the HFSF. If the Bank is unable to further strengthen its capital base to meet its capital adequacy requirements, the Bank may have to apply for capital support available through the HFSF. As a result of any funds provided by the HFSF to the Bank, the HFSF may exercise significant control over the operations of the Bank and could have a material adverse effect on its profitability, capital management and financial condition. Furthermore, the Bank and the HFSF will have to jointly develop a detailed restructuring plan or amend any such plan which has already been submitted to the European Commission, according to EU state aid rules and the European Commission practices. The capital support program under the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program would strengthen the core capital base of the Greek banks in the form of preference shares convertible into ordinary shares (if a bank fails the stress tests and other financial targets in the restructuring plan). The preference shares already issued under the Hellenic Republic bank support plan are also convertible into ordinary shares of the issuing bank in certain circumstances. Any such issuance of ordinary shares will dilute shareholders' interests in the Bank and may result in shareholders losing value of the shares they hold at such time. The conversion ratio will only be determined at the time of conversion and the full dilutive effect of any such conversion will therefore only be known at that time. Negative results in the Bank's stress testing may lead to further capital increases or loss of public confidence in the Bank. Stress tests analyzing the European banking sector recently have been, and we anticipate they will continue to be, published by national and supranational regulators, and the results of a new and more stringent test are expected to be published in the second half of 2011. Specifically, NBG is participating in current stress tests being conducted by the European Banking Authority ("EBA"), which will take into account the impact of, among other things, capital stress arising as a result of sovereign debt crises. Loss of confidence in the banking sector following the announcement of stress tests regarding a bank or the Greek banking system as a whole or market perception that any such tests are not rigorous enough also could have a negative effect on the Bank's cost of funding and may thus have a material adverse effect on its operations and financial condition. Greek banks may be required in the future to meet more stringent capital requirements regarding core Tier I ratio. If a bank fails to meet any such new requirements by accessing the capital markets, it would be required to receive additional capital from the HFSF, and thus, the HFSF may exercise significant control over the operations of that bank, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, profitability, capital management and financial conditions. 19 Table of Contents Our borrowing costs and liquidity levels may be negatively affected by further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic's credit rating. Since 2009, the Hellenic Republic has undergone a series of credit rating downgrades and in 2010 moved to below investment grade. On June 14, 2010, Moody's further lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by four notches from A3 to Ba1, below investment grade. On December 17, 2010 Moody's lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by three notches, from Ba1 to B1. On January 14, 2011 Fitch lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by one notch from BBB- to BB+, below investment grade. On March 29, 2011 Standard & Poor's lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by two notches, from BB+ to BB-. On May 9, 2011, Standard & Poor's furthered lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by another two notches, from BB- to B. Furthermore, on May 20, 2011 Fitch lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by three notches from BB+ to B+ and on June 3, 2011 Moody's lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic by 3 notches, from B1 to Caa1 with a negative outlook. Finally, on June 16, 2011, Standard & Poor's lowered its credit rating for the Hellenic Republic from B to CCC with credit watch negative. The rationale for these downgrades was that a deepening recession and rising debt service costs would make it harder for the Hellenic Republic to meet its IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program targets and increase the likelihood that the Hellenic Republic would not be able to service its debt in full, without recourse to extraordinary support. A downgrade of the Hellenic Republic's rating may occur again in the future in the event of a continuing deterioration in public finances as a result of a poor performance or as a result of the measures proposed being perceived as insufficient. Accordingly, the cost of risk for the Hellenic Republic would increase further, with negative effects on the cost of risk for Greek banks and thereby on their results. Further downgrades of the Hellenic Republic could result in a corresponding downgrade in the Bank's credit rating. Negative sentiment surrounding the Hellenic Republic, including further downgrades of the sovereign rating, could also further increase the debt servicing cost of the Hellenic Republic, resulting in increased taxation and lower Greek government spending. This could further delay the country's economic stabilization and eventual recovery by raising the borrowing costs for the banks which is ultimately passed on to the customers, as well as result in credit rationing. This will ultimately affect the Bank's future business volumes and put additional strains on its liquidity, profitability and asset quality. Our wholesale borrowing costs and access to liquidity and capital have been negatively affected by a series of recent credit rating downgrades of the Bank and may be negatively affected by further downgrades. Since October 2009, we have experienced a series of credit ratings downgrades principally reflecting the series of downgrades in the Hellenic Republic's credit rating and the Greek economic crisis. These downgrades may continue. Any further reductions in the long-term credit ratings of the Bank could delay the Bank's return to the capital and inter-bank markets for funding, increase our borrowing costs and/or restrict the potential sources of available funding available to the Bank (in view of the increased capital and liquidity requirements for funding counterparties associated with holding lower-rated securities). See also "—We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the ECB for funding and liquidity, which may be affected by changes in the ECB rules relating to the eligibility of collateral such as Greek government bonds and guarantees." Any further reductions may also trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements and may result in counterparties no longer being willing to enter into hedging transactions with the Bank. As a result, any further reductions in the Bank's credit ratings could adversely affect our access to liquidity and competitive position or have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Deteriorating asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions may adversely affect our future earnings through a negative impact on our trading income as well as the recovery value of collateral. An increase in financial market volatility or adverse changes in the liquidity of our assets could impair our ability to value certain of our assets and exposures. The value ultimately realized by us will depend on the fair value as determined at that time and may be materially different from the current. Any of these factors could require us to recognize additional write downs or realize impairment charges, any of which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our capital. The global economic slowdown and economic crisis in Greece have resulted in an increase in non-performing loans and significant changes in the fair values of our credit exposures. A substantial portion of our loans to corporate and individual borrowers are secured by collateral such as real estate, securities, vessels, term deposits and receivables. In particular, as mortgage loans are one of our principal assets, we are currently highly exposed to developments in real estate markets, especially in Greece. From 2002 to 2007, demand for housing and mortgage financing in Greece increased, significantly driven by, among other things, economic growth, declining unemployment rates, demographic and social trends, the desirability of Greece as a vacation destination and historically low interest rates in the eurozone. During late 2007, the housing market began to adjust in Greece as a result of excess supply and higher interest rates. In 2008 economic growth came to a halt and since 2009 economic activity began to contract at an accelerating pace of 2.3% and 4.4% per cent annually in 2009 and 2010 respectively. Furthermore, retail interest rates continued to increase, housing oversupply persisted against a backdrop of increasing uncertainty which further weakened demand. As a result, home prices began declining, with home prices in March 2011 approximately 11% below their June 2008 peak. The sharp increase in unemployment during the economic crisis, which in early 2011 exceeds 15% from 7.2% in September 2008, aggravated the situation, with mortgage delinquencies increasing. Continued decline in the general Greek economy or a general deterioration of economic conditions in any industries in which our borrowers operate or in other markets in which the collateral is located, may result in decreases in the value of collateral securing the loans to levels below the outstanding principal balance on some loans disbursed mainly in the few years prior to the crisis. A decline in the value of collateral securing these loans or the inability to obtain additional collateral may require us to establish additional allowance for loan losses. In addition, a failure to recover the expected value of collateral in the case of foreclosure or the inability to initiate foreclosure proceedings due to domestic legislation may expose us to losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders. Under Greek Law 3723/2008 in conjunction with Greek Laws 3965/2011, 3844/2010 and 3756/2009, we did not pay any cash dividends to our ordinary shareholders in 2011 in respect of the 2010 financial year, in 2010 in respect of the 2009 financial year or in 2009 in respect of the 2008 financial year. Subsequent legislation or the issuance of shares to the HFSF may prohibit us from paying cash dividends in subsequent years, according to Greek Law 3864/2010. In June 2008, we issued 25 million non-cumulative, non-voting redeemable preference shares at issue price of USD 625 million. If the Bank has sufficient distributable funds, each preference share is entitled to USD 2.25 per share dividend per annum paid in cash. As a result of our participation in the Hellenic Republic bank support plan, our dividends are subject to a maximum of 35% of the Bank's distributable profits (on an unconsolidated basis) for as long as the Bank participates in this plan, and any decisions regarding distribution of dividends and remuneration can be vetoed by the Hellenic Republic representative who sits on our Board and attends 21 Table of Contents the General Meeting. Our participation in pillar one of the Hellenic Republic bank support plan has also resulted in the issuance of EUR 350 million fixed return preference shares to the Hellenic Republic. Payments of dividends on the redeemable preference shares and payments of the fixed return for the preference shares issued pursuant to the Hellenic Republic bank support plan take preference over distributable profits otherwise available to our ordinary shareholders. No dividend will be paid to holders of US preferred securities and to the Hellenic Republic as holder of preferred shares in 2011 for the 2010 financial year in accordance with the Bank's Articles of Association, the Law 3965/2011 and the provisions of article 44a in combination with articles 42c and 43 of the Greek Companies Act, which prohibit the payment of dividends in the absence of sufficient distributable funds. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis in Greece, our profitability may decline further. Consequently, we may not be able to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in future years as well, if current market conditions persist, if we continue to participate in the Hellenic Republic bank support plan or if we are required to issue shares to the HFSF, in the near-to medium-term (see Item 8.A, "Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Policy on Dividend Distributions"). In the longer term, we may also be further restricted from making distributions as a result of changes to capital requirements preventing the payment of dividends during periods of financial stress. Government and inter-governmental interventions aimed at alleviating the financial crisis carry additional risks. Government and inter-governmental interventions aimed at alleviating the financial crisis could lead to increased ownership and control of financial institutions by the Hellenic Republic or other entities and further consolidation in the banking sector. For example, during the 2008 - 2009 global financial crisis, various governments responded to credit or liquidity concerns in certain banks by nationalizing or partially nationalizing those banks or putting them through a form of resolution or recapitalization process. During that period, even if banks were not fully nationalized, shareholders experienced significant dilution and loss of value. Risks Relating to Volatility in the Global Financial Markets We are vulnerable to the ongoing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. Although the global economic recovery has gained momentum since the third quarter of 2009, in many economies with which Greece has strong export links, the strength of the rebound has been moderate relative to the severity of the recession. Activity remains dependent on highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and is subject to downside risks, as room for countercyclical policy measures has sharply diminished and fiscal fragilities have come to the fore. Policymakers in many advanced economies have publicly acknowledged the need to urgently adopt credible strategies to contain public debt and excessive fiscal deficits and later bring them down to more sustainable levels. The implementation of these policies may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business and results of operations. In financial markets, concerns surfaced in a progressive widening of intra-Euro area government bond and sovereign credit default swap ("CDS") spreads for several Euro area issuers with large fiscal imbalances. Against a background of increasing unease over the macro/financial implications of sizeable fiscal imbalances, investors have reduced their investment in these countries. Continued reduction in investment flows may restrict economic recovery, with a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our ability to fund our operations. 22 Table of Contents Results of operations, both in Greece and our international operations, in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political and regulatory risks and public finances' conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values; the availability and cost of credit; inflation, the stability and solvency of financial institutions and other companies; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these factors. We are exposed to risks potentially faced by other financial institutions. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Sovereign credit pressures may weigh on Greek financial institutions, limiting their funding operations and weakening their capital adequacy by reducing the market value of their sovereign and other fixed income holdings. These liquidity concerns have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, inter-institutional financial transactions in general. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient for us to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, capital position and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Operations Outside of the Hellenic Republic Our Turkish operations make a significant contribution to our net profit, and operating in Turkey carries certain macroeconomic and political risks. Turkish operations through Finansbank, our Turkish subsidiary, represented 18.9% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2010 (compared to 15.0% as at December 31, 2009) and accounted for 31.6% of our total interest and non-interest income and contributed EUR 458.8 million to our net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 (compared to 26.7% and EUR 412.9 million respectively for the year ended December 31, 2009). As a result the Group is subject to operating risks in Turkey, including the following: •Turkey is a parliamentary democracy and, although stable, it is not free from political instability and domestic terrorist acts. •Military operations in the Middle East and elsewhere have increased the political and economic risks in the region. The current situation in the area may contribute to further tension. These risks may have an impact on the Turkish economy and consequently, on the Group's operations in Turkey. •Since the early 1980's, the Turkish economy has undergone a transformation from a highly protected state-directed system to a more free market economy, experiencing an overall pattern of growth from 1992 to 2007. However, the Turkish economy has experienced a succession of financial crises, most notably in 2000 and 2001, as well as macroeconomic imbalances, including substantial budget deficits, significant balance of payments deficits, high inflation rates and high real interest rates. Turkey's economy is exposed to the effects of the continuing global credit difficulties, experiencing four successive quarters of deep recession between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the third quarter of 2009 after 27 quarters of strong growth. Subsequently, the economic environment improved, and Turkey's GDP grew by 8.9% in 2010, with recovery expected to continue in 2011, according to Turkstat. Nevertheless, Turkey may face more 23 Table of Contents financial crises, which could have an adverse effect on Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations or financial condition. •Turkey remains highly dependent on external financing. Turkey's current account deficit rose to 6.5% of GDP in 2010 and is expected to reach a record high 7.9% of GDP in 2011, according to Turkstat, mainly on the back of unfavorable international oil and commodity prices and strong domestic demand. Should the bulk of the current account deficit continue to hinge on short-term inflows, as was the case in 2010, the external financing could be vulnerable to sudden shifts in investor sentiment. Moreover, although the governing party maintained its position in the legislative elections held on June 12, 2011, and will be able to establish a new government, the new government's agenda is expected to include controversial reforms, including the drafting of a new constitution. As a result, there can be no assurance that Turkey will not experience volatility in domestic financial markets. Such likelihood would increase if international market turbulence continues and would have a negative impact on Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations or financial condition. •Historically, the Turkish currency has been subject to significant volatility against the euro and other currencies. For example, the Turkish lira appreciated by 3.8% against the euro and depreciated by 2.7% against the US dollar between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010. From the Group's acquisition of Finansbank on August 18, 2006 to December 31, 2010, the Turkish lira depreciated by 9.4% against the euro and by 5.5% against the US dollar. The Turkish lira depreciated by 10.9% against the euro and appreciated by 3.0% against the US dollar between December 31, 2010 and May 31, 2011. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the value of the Bank's investment in Finansbank and on the Group's overall profitability. The Group has taken steps in the past to reduce its exposure to Turkish lira exchange rate fluctuations and intends to continue implementing such initiatives; however, such protection may not be available on as favorable terms as have been available in the past or at all and may not provide a sufficient hedge against such fluctuations. •The Group believes the general level of macroeconomic and political risk to be higher in Turkey than in a number of countries whose economies and banking markets are more developed and that are already members of the EU, but the risk levels are converging. While the Group believes there is potential for substantial growth in the Turkish banking market, growth may not occur or Finansbank may be unable to benefit from that growth. Adverse macroeconomic and political events, which limit economic growth in Turkey or restrict the growth of the banking market, may adversely affect Finansbank's business and could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, various new laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed in Turkey, which affect the Group's business in Turkey. The Turkish central bank decided to continue not to pay interest on reserve accounts. Further, the Turkish central bank announced significant increases in reserve requirement ratios of approximately 400 basis points in March 2011 and approximately 100 basis points in April 2011 in order to slow down domestic demand and discourage loan growth. Additionally, Turkish authorities have reinstated a 15% tax on consumer loans, limited mortgage loan-to-value ratios to 75%, imposed a ceiling on mutual fund fees and decreased ceiling rates on credit cards. Any failure by Finansbank to adopt adequate responses to these or other future changes in the regulatory framework could adversely affect the Group's business, results of operations or financial condition. At the time of our share capital increase in September 2010, we announced plans to sell a minority interest in Finansbank through an offering that may comprise both primary and secondary shares. We currently intend to complete this offering when market conditions are favorable; however, our decision to proceed with the offering and its timing are subject to various considerations, including market conditions, offer size and structure and obtaining all necessary regulatory and other approvals. A 24 Table of Contents reduction in our level of ownership in Finansbank would result in a reduction in the level of Finansbank's contribution to the Group's earnings going forward. Any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations may lead to an accelerated outflow of funds from customer deposits and could cause an increase in our costs of funding. Historically, Finansbank's principal sources of funds have included individual deposits. All Finansbank's individual deposits are effectively short-term deposits (the average maturity of individual deposits in 2010 was approximately 48 days), which could expose Finansbank to liquidity risks if retail customers were to withdraw large amounts of their deposits or do not roll over their term deposits upon maturity. Although customer deposits have increased in 2011, any loss in consumer confidence in Finansbank's banking operations could significantly increase the amount of individual deposit withdrawals in a short space of time, or, result in higher interest rates on individual deposits, which could significantly increase Finansbank's cost of funding. Finansbank also relies heavily upon other types of short-term liabilities in addition to individual deposits for its funding. As at December 31, 2010, 95% of Finansbank's other borrowed funds and long-term debt had maturity of less than one year. Given such reliance upon short-term liquidity, there can be no assurance that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system or otherwise Finansbank will be able to maintain its levels of funding and at commercially reasonable terms. A deterioration of the credit quality of Finansbank's loans could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. The 2009 economic downturn had an adverse effect on the financial condition of some of Finansbank's corporate and retail customers and, in some instances, ultimately affected their ability to service and repay their obligations. This has led to an increase in Finansbank's impaired loans that are more than 90 days past due accompanied by increased allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, in 2010 Finansbank has increased its exposure to retail customers, whose loans generally yield higher interest income but also tend to have higher levels of default than loans of corporate customers. There can be no assurance that continued weakness in consumer spending, high unemployment, decreased profitability of corporate businesses, increasing numbers of insolvencies and/or deterioration of the credit quality of corporate customers will not result in continued increases in the levels of Finansbank's impaired loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in Finansbank's current long-term ratings may increase Finansbank's funding costs. A reduction in the current long-term ratings of Finansbank or any of its principal subsidiaries may increase Finansbank's funding costs, limit its access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements. In addition, any further deterioration in NBG's credit rating or any decrease in Turkey's sovereign credit rating could affect Finansbank's ability to obtain financing. Any such reduction or deterioration could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the competitive environment in Turkey may adversely affect Finansbank's business. The Turkish banking sector is highly competitive and has in recent years undergone a period of consolidation. As at December 31, 2010, there were a total of 45 banks (excluding the Turkish central bank and four "participation banks" (i.e. interest-free banking institutions)) licensed to operate in Turkey. A small number of these banks have a significant presence in the industry. The intense competition may increase the pressure for Finansbank to expand the range and sophistication of its products and services currently offered as well as to reduce its margins. Increased pricing competition 25 Table of Contents in the Turkish banking markets may also impact customer behavior patterns and loyalty. In addition, state-owned banks in Turkey historically have had access to inexpensive funding in the form of significant Turkish Government deposits, which has provided a competitive advantage over private banks. Any failure to maintain customer loyalty or to offer customers a wide range of competitive products could have a material adverse effect on Finansbank's and the Group's business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct significant international activities in emerging markets, which carries certain political, governmental or macroeconomic risks. Apart from our operations in the Hellenic Republic and Turkey, we have built up substantial operations in Bulgaria, Romania, Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia ("FYROM"), Serbia and other developing economies. The Group's SEE operations accounted for 10.7% of our gross loans as at December 31, 2010 (compared to 11.6% as at December 31, 2009) and 12.4% of our total interest and non interest income as at and for the year ended December 31, 2010 (compared to 11.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009). Our international operations are exposed to the risk of adverse political, governmental or economic developments in the countries in which we operate. In addition, most of the countries outside the Hellenic Republic in which we operate are emerging markets where we face particular operating risks. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations also expose us to foreign currency risk. A decline in the value of the currencies in which our international subsidiaries receive their income or hold their assets relative to the value of the Euro may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The economic crisis in Greece may: •materially adversely affect the operations of our international subsidiaries, including Turkey; •increase depositors' concerns in these countries regarding the creditworthiness of the Hellenic Republic and the Bank, which may, in turn, affect their willingness to continue to do business with our international subsidiaries; and •result in local governmental intervention. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We maintain trading and investment positions in debt, currency, equity and other markets. These positions could be adversely affected by continuing volatility in financial and other markets and the Greek sovereign debt crisis, creating a risk of substantial losses. Significant decline in perceived or actual values of the Group's assets has resulted from previous market events. Continuing volatility and further dislocation affecting certain financial markets and asset classes could further impact the Group's financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the future these factors could have an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in the Group's available-for-sale ("AFS"), trading portfolios and financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected. These include significant holdings of Greek government bonds. In addition, any further deterioration in the performance of the assets in the Group's AFS and held-to-maturity ("HTM") portfolios could lead to impairment losses. The AFS and HTM portfolios accounted for 15.3% of the Group's total assets as at December 31, 2010. Volatility can also lead to losses relating to a broad range of other trading and hedging products we use, including swaps, futures, options and structured products. For further information on market risk exposures in those portfolios, you should refer to Item 11, "Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk". 26 Table of Contents The increase of non-performing loans may have a negative impact on our operations in the future. Non-performing loans represented 7.0% of our loans portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (compared to 4.9% as at December 31, 2009) of which 65.4% were to borrowers in Greece (see Item 4.E, "Selected Statistical Data—Credit Quality—Non-Performing Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Loan Loss Experience" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations—Non-Performing Loans"). The effect of the economic crisis in Greece, the implementation of the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program and adverse macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate may result in adverse effects on the credit quality of our borrowers, with increasing delinquencies and defaults. In accordance with Greek Law 3869/2010, debtors that are individuals and cannot be declared bankrupt and who are in a state of permanent inability to pay their debts not attributable to willful misconduct, have the ability to adjust their debts and may be released from a portion of such debts through filing of an application to the competent court (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). In addition, collateral collections are more difficult in a period of economic recession and in view of existing legislation relating to valuation of collateral in enforcement proceedings. Moreover, as a result of the financial crisis, and for the protection of the weaker ones, auctions have been suspended until September 30, 2011, in cases where the outstanding balance does not exceed EUR 200,000 (pursuant to Legislative Act dated January 4, 2011, having been ratified by Law 3949/2011 (See "—Applicable bankruptcy laws and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to obtain payments on defaulted credit—"). Future provisions for non-performing loans could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. Volatility in interest rates may negatively affect our net interest income and have other adverse consequences. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. There can be no assurance that further events will not alter the interest rate environment in Greece and the other markets in which the Group operates. Cost of funding is especially at risk for the Bank in view of increased ECB funding and the tight liquidity conditions in the domestic deposit market. As with any bank, changes in market interest rates affect the interest rates we charge on our interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could reduce our net interest income. Since the majority of our loan portfolio effectively re-prices within a year, rising interest rates may also result in an increase in our allowance for loan losses if customers cannot refinance in a higher interest rate environment. Further, an increase in interest rates may reduce our clients' capacity to repay in the current economic circumstances. We face significant competition from Greek and foreign banks. The general scarcity of wholesale funding since the onset of the economic crisis has led to a significant increase in competition for retail deposits in Greece. We also face competition from foreign banks, some of which may have resources greater than our own. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with domestic and international banks in the future. These competitive pressures on the Group may have adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The state of the political environment in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE significantly affect our performance. The economic and political environment in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and in other countries in which we operate may be adversely affected by events outside our control, such as changes in government policies, EU directives in the banking sector and other areas, political instability or military 27 Table of Contents action affecting Europe and/or other areas abroad and taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and the countries in which we operate or may plan to expand. Particularly in Greece, political risk has also increased substantially in the past few months, with defections in the governing party and a reorganization of the cabinet as well as increased social unrest. Applicable bankruptcy laws and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights in Greece and various SEE countries may limit the Group's ability to obtain payments on defaulted credits. Bankruptcy laws (Greek Law 3869/2010) and other laws and regulations governing creditors' rights vary significantly within the region that the Group operates in. In some countries, the laws offer significantly less protection for creditors than the bankruptcy regimes in Western Europe and the United States. If the current economic downturn persists or worsens, bankruptcies could intensify, or applicable bankruptcy protection laws and regulations may change to limit the impact of the recession on corporate and retail borrowers. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the Group's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in consumer protection laws might limit the fees that the Group may charge in certain banking transactions. Changes in consumer protection laws in Greece, Turkey and/or other jurisdictions where the Group has operations could limit the fees that banks may charge for certain products and services such as mortgages, unsecured loans and credit cards. If introduced, such laws could reduce the Group's net income, though the amount of any such reduction cannot be estimated at this time. There can be no assurance that such effects will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to increasingly complex regulation which may increase our regulatory and capital requirements. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each jurisdiction where it operates. All of these regulatory requirements are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions. In response to the global financial crisis, national governments as well as supranational groups, such as the EU, have been considering significant changes to current regulatory frameworks, including those pertaining to capital adequacy, liquidity and scope of banks' operations. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of our participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives, such as the Hellenic Republic bank support plan), we may face greater regulation in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE. Current and future regulatory requirements may be different across each of these locations and even requirements with EEA-wide application may be implemented or applied differently in different jurisdictions. Compliance with these new requirements may increase our regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and costs, heighten disclosure requirements, restrict certain types of transactions, affect our strategy and limit or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loan and other products, any of which could lower the return on the Group's investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The new regulatory framework may have significant scope and may have unintended consequences for the global financial system, the Greek financial system or our business, including reducing competition, increasing general uncertainty in the markets or favoring or disfavoring certain 28 Table of Contents lines of business. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes on our business, financial condition, cash flows or future prospects. Regulation of the banking industry in the Hellenic Republic has changed in recent years largely as a result of Greece's implementation of applicable EU directives and in response to the economic crisis in the Hellenic Republic. In this context, •The BoG issued in 2010 a series of amendments of its existing Governor's Acts regarding capital adequacy and risk management in order to adopt the provisions of EU Directives 2009/111/EC, 2009/27/EC and 2009/83/EC which amended the EU Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC. •EU Directive 2010/76/EC was issued on November 24, 2010 amending further the Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC as regards capital requirements for the trading book and for re-securitizations, and the supervisory review of remuneration policies. This Directive introduces a number of changes in response to the recent and current market conditions, such as: –increase of capital requirements for market risk in the trading book under the use of Internal Models taking into account potential losses from adverse market movements in stressed conditions; –increase of capital requirements under the Standardised Approach for specific market risk of positions in equities held in the trading book; –imposition of higher capital requirements for positions in re-securitization; and –restriction on the remuneration payable to individuals fulfilling roles with potential impact on a bank's risk profile. •The changes relating to remuneration have already come into force and the changes relating to the trading book and re-securitization positions will come into force on December 31, 2011. •In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee"), issued two consultative documents which contain the capital and liquidity reform package (the "Basel III proposal"). The main elements of Basel III are summarized as follows: –revision of the regulatory capital definition and its components, setting higher minimum levels for Common Equity Tier I and Tier I capital adequacy ratios; –introduction of a requirement for non-core Tier I and Tier II capital instruments to have a mechanism that requires them to be written off on the occurrence of a bailout of the institution, which would apply to internationally active banks; –introduction of capital conservation buffer which is designed to ensure that banks build up capital buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred and countercyclical buffer, in order to ensure that banking sector capital requirements take into account of the macro-financial environment in which banks operate; –enhancement of risk coverage of the capital requirements framework especially regarding derivatives and other off balance sheet items (counterparty credit risk), the exposures to central counterparties (CCPs) and the values of the risk parameters under stress conditions (market, credit and counterparty credit risk); –supplementation of risk based capital requirements with a leverage ratio; –promotion of stronger provisioning practices mainly by moving towards a forward looking (Expected Loss) provisioning approach; and 29 Table of Contents –introduction of global common liquidity measurement standards for the banking sector, sector, which will subject banks to minimum quantitative requirements for liquidity and increased risk weightings for "illiquid" assets. When implemented (as required by October 31, 2012), the Solvency II Directive (Directive 2009/158/EC) will alter significantly the capital structure and overall governance of the Group's life assurance business, and this may have an impact on the capital structure of the Group. The European Commission has published several consultation and other policy documents indicating its intention to implement the Basel III standards throughout the EEA by way of further changes to the Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC and/or additional regulations. It is anticipated that the initial legislative proposals will be published during 2011. The Commission's intention is that agreement be reached on the final form of legislation by the end of 2011, with implementation by banks being required by January 2013. Finansbank is subject to a number of banking and other regulations in Turkey, in particular those of the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency of Turkey ("BRSA"). Banking regulations in Turkey are evolving in parallel to the global changes and international regulatory environment. The Turkish regulator has announced the roadmap for Basel II and stated that starting from June 2011, the banks in Turkey will report their results according to both Basel I and Basel II; and after June 2012 only Basel II will be used. Our ability to reduce staff in the Hellenic Republic is limited. Part of our strategy is to increase profitability by making our operations more efficient. Our ability to realize one component of this, reducing staff, is limited by Greek labor laws, our collective bargaining agreement and the current employment regulation. As a result, we will continue to depend on voluntary redundancies and attrition to achieve staff reductions. We will continue to assess whether we will be able to further reduce our staff. However, we may not always be successful in achieving staff reductions. The loss of senior management may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. Our current senior management team includes a number of executives that we believe contribute significant experience and expertise to our management in the banking sectors in which we operate. The continued success of our business and our ability to execute our business strategy will depend, in large part, on the efforts of our senior management. For instance, a change of government in the Hellenic Republic could lead to the departure of certain senior managers. If a substantial portion of our senior management leaves us, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to recruit or retain experienced and/or qualified personnel. Our competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified and experienced banking and management personnel. Competition in the Greek and other SEE banking industries for personnel with relevant expertise is intense due to the relatively limited availability of qualified individuals. To recruit qualified and experienced employees and to minimize the possibility of their departure, we provide compensation packages consistent with evolving standards in the relevant labor markets. Under the terms of the Hellenic Republic bank support plan, as currently applicable, the Bank is prohibited from paying bonuses to the members of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and any general managers or their substitutes. Furthermore, as a result of the economic crisis and regulatory restrictions on bonus payments, we are limiting or restricting the bonuses we pay our personnel, which may inhibit the retention and recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel. However, inability to recruit and retain qualified and experienced personnel in the Hellenic Republic, Turkey and SEE, or manage our current personnel successfully, could have a 30 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. This risk has increased in view of the current economic situation in Greece. We could be exposed to significant future pension and post-employment benefit liabilities. Like other large companies in the Hellenic Republic that are, or were, in the public sector, the employees of the Bank and certain of our subsidiaries participate in employee-managed pension schemes. The Bank and certain of our subsidiaries make significant contributions to these schemes. In addition, the Bank and several of our subsidiaries offer other post-employment benefit plans, including medical benefit plans. Our consolidated net liability under these plans as of December 31, 2010 was EUR 299.9 million, determined by reference to a number of critical assumptions. These include assumptions about movements in interest rates which may not be realized. Such variation may cause us to incur significantly increased liability in respect of these obligations. For more information on our current obligations under pension plans and the assumptions by reference to which they are determined, please refer to Note 39 to the US GAAP Financial Statements. Following legislation passed in April 2008, the Bank's main pension plan and the main pension branch of Ethniki Hellenic General Insurance S.A.'s ("EH") post-employment and health plan, both of which are defined-contribution plans, have been incorporated into the main pension branch of the state-sponsored social security fund ("IKA—ETAM"). Pursuant to this legislation, the Bank will contribute into IKA—ETAM EUR 25.5 million per year for 15 years from December 2009. In addition, in 2005 and 2006, the Hellenic Republic passed legislation permitting bank employee auxiliary pension schemes to merge with the new Insurance Fund of Bank Employees ("ETAT"). The relevant legislation provides that, in connection with the merger of auxiliary schemes with ETAT, the relevant employer shall make a payment to ETAT solely in an amount to be determined by an independent financial report commissioned by the Ministry of Finance pursuant to this legislation. Subsequently, in April 2006 the Bank applied under Greek Law 3371/2005, as amended, to merge its Auxiliary Pension Fund into ETAT. It is possible that we may have a future requirement to make a significant cash payment to ETAT in connection with the merger of the Bank's employee pension schemes with ETAT. In addition, Greek Law 3863/2010 amended substantially the structure and operation of the Greek pensions system. These developments, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and any future legislation regarding pensions and pension liabilities or other post-employment benefit obligations, including those under the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program may increase the liability of the Bank or its subsidiaries with respect to pension and other post-employment benefit plan contributions to cover actuarial or operating deficits of those plans. The Greek banking sector is subject to strikes which may adversely affect the Group's operations. Most of the Bank's employees belong to a union and the Greek banking industry has been subject to strikes over the issues of pensions and wages. Bank employees throughout the Hellenic Republic went on strike for 18 days in 2010. Bank employees have gone on strike 5 days thus far in 2011 (up to June 17, 2011), largely to express their opposition to the new austerity measures implemented in light of the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program. Greek bank unions in general participate in general strikes which have increased. Prolonged labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations in the Hellenic Republic, either directly or indirectly, for example on the willingness or ability of the government to pass the reforms necessary to successfully implement the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program. 31 Table of Contents The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgments and estimates that may change over time or may not be accurate. In establishing the fair value of certain financial instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilize observable financial market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilized by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in financial market conditions. In such circumstances, the Group's internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgments and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgments and estimates the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows. Such assumptions, judgments and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Group's earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the Group's financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have an adverse effect on the Group's results, financial condition and prospects. We are exposed to credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. As a result of our activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. Among the most significant of these risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and insurance risk. Failure to control these risks could result in material adverse effects on our financial performance and reputation. Credit Risk. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss relating to the failure of a borrower to honor its contractual obligations. Credit risk arises in lending activities and also in various other activities where we are exposed to the risk of counterparty default, such as our trading, capital markets and settlement activities. Counterparty default can be caused by a number of reasons, which we may not be able to accurately assess at the time it undertakes the relevant activity. Credit risk has increased significantly since September 2007 and we are using all available sources of information, including the Credit Bureau services of Tiresias, which are now considered adequately complete, to monitor this trend in Greece. Market Risk. Market risk includes, but is not limited to, interest rate, foreign exchange rate, bond price and equity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect our net interest margin. Changes in currency exchange rates affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets or financial conditions generally may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. We have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which our portfolios are also exposed. However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our financial performance and business operations. Liquidity Risk. The inability of any bank, including the Bank, to anticipate and provide for unforeseen decreases or changes in funding sources could have consequences on the bank's ability to meet its obligations when they fall due. The severity of pressure experienced by the Hellenic Republic in its public finances has restricted the access to markets for the Bank, which currently relies almost entirely on the ECB. See "—Risks Relating to the Hellenic Republic Economic Crisis—We are currently severely restricted in our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets and are heavily dependent on the 32 Table of Contents ECB for funding and liquidity, which may be affected by changes in ECB rules relating to the eligibility of collateral such as Greek government bonds and guarantees". Operational Risk. Operational risk corresponds to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether deliberate, accidental or natural occurrences. Internal events include, but are not limited to, fraud by employees, clerical and record keeping errors and information systems malfunctions or manipulations. External events include floods, fires, earthquakes, riots or terrorist attacks, fraud by outsiders and equipment failures. Finally, we may also fail to comply with regulatory requirements or conduct of business rules. Insurance Risk. Insurance risk is the risk to earnings due to mismatches between expected and actual claims. Depending on the insurance product, this risk is influenced by macroeconomic changes, changes in customer behavior, changes in public health, pandemics and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, industrial disasters, fires, riots or terrorism. Although the Bank believes that its risk management and risk mitigation policies are adequate, our risk management processes may not prevent all instances of fraud. In addition, continuing volatility as a result of market forces out of our control could cause the Bank's liquidity position to deteriorate. Such deterioration would increase funding costs and limit the Bank's capacity to increase its credit portfolio and the total amount of its assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not successfully complete all elements of our capital plan announced in September 2010. Concurrently with our announcement of the rights offering in September 2010, we announced that we intend to dispose of a minority stake in the share capital of the Group's Turkish subsidiary, Finansbank, of which we own 94.8%, (the "Finansbank Offering") through an offering that may comprise both primary and secondary shares. NBG intends to retain a majority equity stake in Finansbank of at least 75%. Our decision to proceed with the offering and its timing are subject to various considerations, including market conditions, offer size and structure and obtaining all necessary regulatory and other approvals. The Finansbank Offering may be further delayed, may fail to achieve its objectives or may not be consummated. Our hedging may not prevent losses. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies that we use to hedge our exposure to various types of economic risk in our businesses is not effective, we may incur losses. Many of our strategies are based on historical trading patterns and correlations. Unexpected market developments therefore may adversely affect the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Moreover, we do not hedge all of our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we are exposed to Turkish lira fluctuations and do not always hedge this exposure. Finally, the methodology by which certain risks are economically hedged may not qualify for hedge accounting, which may result in additional volatility in the Group's income statement. We have not hedged the sovereign credit risk of the Hellenic Republic. An interruption in or a breach of security in our information systems may result in business disruptions and other losses. We rely on communications and information systems provided by third parties to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, and servicing and/or loan organization systems. We cannot provide assurances that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer data and an inability to service our customers, which 33 Table of Contents could result in a loss of customers or have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The Hellenic Republic and state-related entities may have an important influence on the Bank. In 2008, the Greek Parliament approved the Hellenic Republic bank support plan, in response to the difficult funding conditions in 2008. The Greek Parliament originally approved for EUR 28 billion in 2008 and augmented the support plan by EUR 40 billion in 2010 and another EUR 30 billion in 2011. The Hellenic Republic bank support plan, as amended, comprised three tranches or pillars: •up to EUR 5 billion in preference share capital designed to increase Tier I ratios of participating banks, see Item 5.B, "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Under the Hellenic Republic Bank Support Plan"; •up to EUR 85 billion in guarantees for short-term borrowings of participating banks (originally only EUR 15 billion); and •up to EUR 8 billion in short-term debt floating rate notes issued to the participating banks by the Public Debt Management Agency. As at May 31, 2011, the Hellenic Republic directly owns all 70 million non transferable redeemable preference shares issued by NBG under the capital facility of the bank support plan. This direct stake in NBG provides the Hellenic Republic with voting rights at the general meeting of preferred shareholders and requires the participation on the Board of Directors of NBG of a Government appointed representative, who attends the general meeting of ordinary shareholders of NBG (the "General Meeting"). This representative has the ability to veto actions relating to decisions on strategic issues or decisions that will materially amend the legal or financial situation of NBG for which the General Meeting is competent, the distribution of dividends, the remuneration of NBG's directors and senior management in certain circumstances. By its letter dated October 11, 2010 regarding NBG's rights offering initiated by the September 10, 2010 decision of its Board of Directors, the Hellenic Republic exercised in full its pre-emptive right arising from its holding of preference shares to subscribe for new shares and convertible equity notes that would not be subscribed for by holders of rights and their transferees, equal to approximately 10.3%. Consequently, the Hellenic Republic directly holds 1.23% of the Bank's ordinary shares. (see Item 4.B, "Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece—Plan for the Support of the Liquidity of the Greek Economy"). NBG also participates in the second and third pillars of the Hellenic Republic bank support plan. In addition, the Hellenic Republic may exercise a degree of indirect influence on us, through certain state-related entities (primarily pension funds, most of whose boards of directors are appointed by the Hellenic Republic). As of December 31, 2010, domestic pension funds owned approximately 16.3% of our share capital, and other domestic public sector related legal entities and the Church of Greece owned approximately 7.4% If there is not a full voting participation by all of our shareholders at a given shareholders' meeting, these state-related entities, despite holding a non-controlling level of our total shares, may have a voting majority at such meeting (see Item 7.A, "—Major Shareholders—State Interests"). There is a risk that the Hellenic Republic might seek to exert influence over the Group and may disagree with certain decisions of the Bank and the Group relating to dividend distributions, benefits policies and other commercial and management decisions which may ultimately limit the operational flexibility of the Group. If economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate or if the financial position of the Group deteriorates, further government or inter-governmental intervention may take place through the HFSF. Any further government or inter-governmental intervention, including through the HFSF, may 34 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on the interest of other holders of our securities, results of operations and financial condition. Capital shares issued under the HFSF will provide it with significant management powers (see Item 4.B, "Business Overview—Regulation and Supervision of Banks in Greece"). Furthermore, the Hellenic Republic also has interests in other Greek financial institutions and an interest in the health of the Greek banking industry and other industries generally, and those interests may not always be aligned with the commercial interests of the Group or its shareholders. An action supported by the Hellenic Republic may not be in the best interests of the Group or its shareholders generally. There may be limited growth in our loan portfolio. In the current economic environment, our Greek loan portfolio may continue to decline, and our foreign loan portfolio may not grow at historic rates or may even decline. Furthermore, there are a limited number of high credit quality customers to whom banking services may be provided in our target markets. The pace of our loan portfolio growth may be constrained by, among other factors, the health of the Greek economy in light of the economic crisis and the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program and our ability to increase lending volumes to customers that meet our credit quality standards. If we are unable to further expand our loan portfolio in general and/or our customer base in particular, we may not generate sufficient interest income to offset any decline in net interest margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to additional taxes. Due to the uncertainty regarding the success of the IMF/eurozone Stabilization and Recovery Program, new taxes may be imposed on the Group, such as the "one-off" taxation on profitable companies, and existing taxes may be increased. In 2010, the Group was subject to a EUR 79.1 million windfall tax, which comprised of a tax on 2009 earnings of EUR 26.1 million and a reversal of a tax credit from withholding tax of EUR 53.0 million relating to interest income from bonds. In addition, at the European Council Summit held on June 17, 2010, representatives agreed that Member States should introduce a system of levies and taxes on financial institutions to promote an equitable distribution of the costs of the global financial crisis. Any additional taxes imposed on us in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Markets Exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on the value of our shares. The market price of our shares traded on the Athens Exchange ("ATHEX") is denominated in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and other currencies may affect the value of the Bank's shares in the local currency of investors in the United States and other countries that have not adopted the euro as their currency. Additionally, any cash dividends on our ordinary shares are paid in euros and, therefore, are subject to exchange rate fluctuations when converted to an investor's local currency, including U.S. dollars. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major exchanges. The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is the ATHEX. The ATHEX is less liquid than other major stock markets in Western Europe and the United States. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty assessing the past performance of the shares based on our prior trading record on the ATHEX. In 2010, the average daily trading value on the ATHEX was EUR 139.3 million, while in 35 Table of Contents the first five months of 2011 it was EUR 111.1 million. In comparison, the average daily trading value on the London Stock Exchange was approximately GBP 4.6 billion in 2010. As at December 31, 2010, the aggregate market value of all shares listed on the ATHEX was approximately EUR 65.4 billion, while as at April 29, 2011 it was approximately EUR 59.3 billion. The market value of our ordinary shares listed on the ATHEX on December 31, 2010 and May 31, 2011 was EUR 5.8 billion and EUR 4.7 billion, representing approximately 8.9% and 9.8%, respectively, of the capitalization of all companies listed on the ATHEX. We cannot make assurances about the future liquidity of the market for our shares. Our share price has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our shares has been subject to significant volatility in the past, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: •the overall condition of the Greek economy and budget deficit; •the perceived stability of the European Monetary Union; •the condition of the Turkish and other economies in which we do business; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •results of operations of our competitors; •potential changes in banking regulatory regimes; •potential or actual sales of large amounts of the Bank's shares into the market; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •conditions and trends in the banking sector in Greece and elsewhere in Europe; and •the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the Greek, Turkish, other SEE and financial services sectors). The exercise of pre-emptive rights may not be available to US holders of the Bank's ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts. Under Greek law and our Articles of Association, prior to the issuance of any new Ordinary Shares, we must offer holders of our existing Ordinary Shares pre-emptive rights to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of Ordinary Shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages. These pre-emptive rights are generally transferable during the rights trading period for the related offering and may be traded on the ATHEX. Holders in the United States of the Bank's Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs") may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for any such offering of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act") is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement with respect to any future offering will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling US holders of Ordinary Shares and ADRs to exercise their pre-emptive rights and any other factors we may consider appropriate at the time. If holders in the United States of the Bank's Ordinary Shares and ADRs are not able to exercise pre-emptive rights granted in respect of their shares in any rights offering by us then they might not receive the economic benefit of such rights. In addition, their proportional ownership interests in the Bank will be diluted. 36 Table of Contents 