Item 1A. Risk Factors CURRENT AND PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS IN VA SOFTWARE SECURITIES SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. IN ADDITION, THESE RISKS ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING OUR COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS OF WHICH WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND INVESTORS MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF THEIR INVESTMENT. Risks Related To Our Online Media Business If our online business fails to continue to deliver original and compelling content and services, we will be unable to attract and retain users, which will adversely affect our financial results. The successful development and production of content and services is subject to numerous uncertainties, including our ability to: • anticipate and successfully respond to rapidly changing consumer tastes and preferences; • fund new program development; and • attract and retain qualified editors, writers and technical personnel. We cannot assure that our online content and services will be attractive to a sufficient number of users to generate revenue consistent with our estimates or sufficient to sustain operations. In addition, we cannot assure that any new content or services will be developed in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are unable to develop content and services that allow us to attract, retain and expand a loyal user base that is attractive to advertisers, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to grow our online business. If our online business fails to deliver innovative marketing programs, we will be unable to attract and retain advertisers, which will adversely affect our financial results. The successful development and production of marketing programs is subject to numerous uncertainties, including our ability to: • enable advertisers to showcase products, services and/or brands to their intended audience; • anticipate and successfully respond to emerging trends in online advertising; and • attract and retain qualified marketing and technical personnel. We cannot assure that our online marketing programs will enable us to attract and retain advertisers and generate revenue consistent with our estimates or sufficient to sustain operations. In addition, we cannot assure that any new marketing programs will be developed in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are unable to deliver innovative marketing programs that allow us to expand our advertiser base, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to grow our online business. Decreases or delays in advertising spending due to general economic conditions could harm our ability to generate advertising revenue, which would adversely affect our financial results. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Because we derive a large part of our revenue from advertising fees, decreases in or delays of advertising spending could reduce our revenue or negatively impact our ability to grow our revenue. Even if economic conditions continue to improve, marketing budgets and advertising spending may not increase from current levels. 8 The market in which SourceForge.net participates is becoming more competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our online business could be harmed. SouceForge.net hosts more than 130,000 open source software projects, and we derive revenue from SourceForge.net primarily through advertisements and sponsorship campaigns run on the site. Recently, Google has begun offering open source code hosting and search capabilities that may be viewed as competitive to SourceForge.net’s offering. Because Google enjoys substantial competitive advantages in the online space generally, including powerful brand identity, established marketing relationships, larger visitor base, and greater financial, technical, and other resources, we may be unable to compete effectively with Google’s offering. Further, other companies and organizations offer open source code hosting, open source code search, and open source software development-related services. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing open source software opportunities, technologies, standards, or user requirements. Because of competitors’ advantages, even if our services are more effective than those of our competitors, users might accept the services of our competitors in lieu of ours. If we fail to compete effectively, our online business could be negatively impacted. Unplanned system interruptions and capacity constraints and failure to effect efficient transmission of user communications and data over the Internet could harm our business and reputation. The success of our online media business largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the computer and communications hardware and network systems that power our web sites. We do not currently have a formal disaster recovery plan and our computer and communications systems are located in a single data center in Santa Clara County, California. Although we are considering moving our data center in connection with formulation of a formal disaster recovery plan, given the current location of our single data center and our lack of a formal disaster recovery plan, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquake, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. During and prior to fiscal year 2006, we experienced service interruptions with our online sites, including service outages associated with our SourceForge.net and Slashdot.org sites. Service interruptions during fiscal year 2006 were caused by a variety of factors, including capacity constraints, single points of hardware failure, software design flaws and bugs, and third party denial of service attacks. Although we continue to work to improve the performance and uptime of our web sites, and have taken steps to mitigate these risks, we expect that service interruptions will continue to occur from time to time. If our web sites experience frequent or lengthy service interruptions, our business and reputation will be seriously harmed. Risks Related To Our E-Commerce Business We cannot predict our E-commerce customers’ preferences with certainty and such preferences may change rapidly. If we fail to accurately assess and predict our E-commerce customers’ preferences, it will adversely impact our financial results. Our E-commerce offerings on our ThinkGeek.com web site are designed to appeal to IT professionals, software developers and others in technical fields. Misjudging either the market for our products or our customers’ purchasing habits will cause our sales to decline, our inventories to increase and/or require us to sell our products at lower prices, all of which would have a negative effect on our business. We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products offered at our ThinkGeek E-commerce web site. Failure to properly assess our inventory needs will adversely affect our financial results. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict our customers’ tastes and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. Demand for products can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. 9 If we do not maintain sufficient E-commerce inventory levels, or if we are unable to deliver our E-commerce products to our customers in sufficient quantities, our E-commerce business operating results will be adversely affected. We must be able to deliver our merchandise in sufficient quantities to meet the demands of our customers and deliver this merchandise to customers in a timely manner. We must be able to maintain sufficient inventory levels, particularly during the peak holiday selling seasons. If we fail to achieve these goals, we may be unable to meet customer demand, and our financial results will be adversely affected. Our ThinkGeek E-commerce web site is dependent upon a single third party fulfillment and warehouse provider. The satisfaction of our E-commerce customers is highly dependent upon fulfillment of orders in a professional and timely manner, so any decrease in the quality of service offered by our fulfillment and warehouse provider will adversely affect our reputation and the growth of our E-commerce business. Our ThinkGeek E-commerce web site’s ability to receive inbound inventory and ship completed orders efficiently to our customers is substantially dependent on a third-party contract fulfillment and warehouse provider. We currently utilize the services of Dotcom Distribution, Inc. (“Dotcom Distribution”), located in Edison, New Jersey. If Dotcom Distribution fails to meet our future distribution and fulfillment needs, our relationship with and reputation among our E-commerce customers will suffer and this will adversely affect our E-commerce growth. Additionally, if Dotcom Distribution cannot meet our distribution and fulfillment needs, particularly during the peak holiday selling seasons, or our contract with Dotcom Distribution terminates, we may fail to secure a suitable replacement or second-source distribution and fulfillment provider on comparable terms, which would adversely affect our E-commerce financial results. Risks Related To Our Software Business Because the market for our SFEE application software is still emerging, we do not know whether existing and potential customers will license SFEE in sufficient quantities for us to sustain profitability. Our future growth and financial performance will depend on market acceptance of SFEE and our ability to license our software in sufficient quantities and under acceptable terms. The number of customers using SFEE is still relatively small. We expect that we will continue to need intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective clients about the uses and benefits of SFEE. Various factors could inhibit the growth of the market for and market acceptance of SFEE. In particular, potential customers may be unwilling to make the significant capital investment needed to license SFEE. Many of our customers have licensed only limited quantities of SFEE, and these or new customers may decide not to deploy our software more broadly. We cannot be certain that a viable market for SFEE will be sustainable. If a viable market for SFEE fails to be sustainable, this would have a significant, adverse effect upon our software business and operating results. We are devoting the majority of our research and development spending to our SFEE application, so if this software does not achieve market acceptance we may experience operating losses. Although in fiscal year 2006, which ended on July 31, 2006, approximately 23% of our revenue was derived from our Software business, we devoted 51%, or $3.2 million, of our research and development spending to research and development associated with our SFEE software application. We expect to continue to allocate a substantial portion of our research and development resources to software for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be sufficiently successful in marketing, licensing, upgrading and supporting Software to offset our substantial research and development expenditures. A failure to grow software revenue sufficiently to offset the significant research and development costs will materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to attract and retain larger corporate and enterprise-level customers, our revenue will not grow and may decline. We have focused our sales and marketing efforts upon larger corporate and enterprise-level customers. This strategy may fail to generate sufficient revenue to offset the substantial demands that this strategy will place on our business, in particular the longer sales cycles, higher levels of service and support and volume pricing and terms that larger corporate and enterprise accounts often demand. In addition, these larger customers generally have significant financial and personnel resources. As a result, rather than license software, our target customers may develop collaborative software development applications internally, including ad hoc development of applications based on open source code. A failure to successfully obtain revenue from larger corporate or enterprise-level customers will materially and adversely affect our operating results. 10 If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technology developments, industry standards or practices, and customer requirements, or if we experience any significant delays in product development, introduction, or integration, SFEE software may become obsolete or unmarketable, our ability to compete may be impaired, and our software revenue may not grow or may decline. Rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software industry generally. We must respond rapidly to developments related to hardware platforms, operating systems, and software development tools. These developments will require us to make substantial product development investments. We believe the success of our Software business will become increasingly dependent on our ability to: • support multiple platforms, including Linux, commercial UNIX and Microsoft Windows; • use the latest technologies to continue to support web-based collaborative software development; and • continually support the rapidly changing standards, tools and technologies used in software development. Our SFEE application software has a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results and may cause our operating results to vary significantly. The period between initial contact with a prospective customer and the licensing of SFEE varies and has often exceeded three and occasionally exceeded twelve months. Additionally, our sales cycle is complex because customers consider a number of factors before committing to license our software. Factors that our customers and potential customers have informed us that they consider when evaluating our software include product benefits, cost and time of implementation, and the ability to operate with existing and future computer systems and applications. We have found that customer evaluation, purchasing and budgeting processes vary significantly from company to company. We spend significant time and resources informing prospective customers about our software products, which may not result in completed transactions and associated revenue. Even if SFEE has been chosen by a customer, completion of the transaction is subject to a number of contingencies, which make our quarterly revenue difficult to forecast. These contingencies include but are not limited to the following: • Our ability to sell SFEE software licenses may be impacted by changes in the strategic importance of software projects due to our customers’ budgetary constraints or changes in customer personnel; • A customer’s internal approval and expenditure authorization process can be difficult and time consuming. Delays in approvals, even after we are selected as a vendor, could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a quarterly period; and • The number, timing and significance of enhancements to our software products and future introductions of new software by our competitors and us may affect customer-purchasing decisions. If we do not continue to receive repeat business from existing software customers, our revenue will not grow and may decline. We generate a significant amount of our SFEE license revenue from existing customers. Generally, our customers initially purchase a limited number of licenses as they evaluate, implement and adopt SFEE software. Even if customers successfully use SFEE, such customers may not purchase additional licenses to expand the use of our product. Purchases of additional licenses by these customers will depend on their success in deploying our software, their satisfaction with our product and support services and their use of competitive alternatives. A customer’s decision to widely deploy SFEE and purchase additional licenses may also be affected by factors that are outside of our control or which are not related to our product or services. In addition, as we deploy new versions of our software, or introduce new products, our current customers may not require the functionality of our new versions or products and may decide not to license these products. Increased utilization and costs of our technical support services may adversely affect our financial results. Over the short term, we may be unable to respond to fluctuations in customer demand for support services. We may also be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors. Further, customer demand for these services could cause increases in the costs of providing such services and adversely affect our operating results. 11 Contractual issues may arise during the negotiation process that may delay the anticipated closure of a transaction and our ability to recognize revenue as anticipated. The occurrence of such issues might cause our Software revenue and operating results to fall below our publicly-stated expectations, the expectations of securities analysts or the expectations of investors. Failure to meet public expectations is likely to materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Because we focus on selling enterprise solutions, the process of contractual negotiation is critical and may be lengthy. Additionally, several factors may require us to defer recognition of license revenue for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement, including instances where we are required to deliver either unspecified additional products or specified upgrades for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value. While we have a standard software license agreement that provides for revenue recognition provided that delivery has taken place, collectibility from the customer is reasonably assured and assuming no significant future obligations or customer acceptance rights exist, customer negotiations and revisions to these terms could impact our ability to recognize revenue at the time of delivery. Many enterprise customers negotiate software licenses near the end of each quarter. In part, this is because enterprise customers are able, or believe that they are able, to negotiate lower prices and more favorable terms at that time. Our reliance on a large portion of Software revenue occurring at the end of the quarter and the increase in the dollar value of transactions that occur at the end of a quarter can result in increased uncertainty relating to quarterly revenue. Due to end-of-period variances, forecasts may not be achieved, either because expected sales do not occur or because they occur at lower prices or on terms that are less favorable to us. In addition, slowdowns in our quarterly license contracting activities may impact our service offerings and may result in lower revenue from our customer training, professional services and customer support organizations. Our ability to maintain or increase service revenue is highly dependent on our ability to increase the number of license agreements we enter into with customers. Risks Related To Our Financial Results Certain factors specific to our businesses over which we have limited or no control may nonetheless adversely impact our total revenue and financial results. The primary factors over which we have limited or no control that may adversely impact our total revenue and financial results include the following: • specific economic conditions relating to IT spending; • the discretionary nature of our software and online media customers’ purchase and budget cycles; • the size and timing of software and online media customer orders; • long software and online media sales cycles; • our ability to retain skilled engineering and sales personnel; • economic conditions relating to online advertising and sponsorship, and E-commerce; • our ability to demonstrate and maintain attractive online user demographics; • the addition or loss of specific online advertisers or sponsors, and the size and timing of advertising or sponsorship purchases by individual customers; and • our ability to keep our web sites operational at a reasonable cost. If our revenue and operating results fall below our expectations, the expectations of securities analysts or the expectations of investors, the trading price of our common stock will likely be materially and adversely affected. You should not rely on the results of our business in any past periods as an indication of our future financial performance. 12 Future changes in financial accounting standards, including pronouncements and interpretations of accounting pronouncements on software revenue recognition, share-based payments and financial instruments, may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. From time to time, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) and the SEC may issue accounting pronouncements, guidelines and interpretations regarding accounting pronouncements. A change in an accounting policy can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting our business, including rules relating to revenue recognition, share-based payments and financial instruments have recently been revised or are under review. In particular, new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements on software revenue recognition, share-based payments and financial instruments have occurred with frequency, may occur in the future and could impact our revenue and results of operations. There have also been recent accounting pronouncements on the reporting of changes in accounting policies and the consideration of the effects on prior year misstatements. Required changes in our application of accounting pronouncements could cause changes in our reported results of operation and our financial condition. If we fail to adequately monitor and minimize our use of existing cash, we may need additional capital to fund continued operations beyond the next 12 months. Although we generated cash from operations during fiscal 2006, which ended July 31, 2006, we have historically experienced cash shortfalls, and unless we monitor and minimize the level of use of our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, we may require additional capital to fund continued operations beyond the next 12 months. While we believe we will not require additional capital to fund continued operations for the next 12 months, we may require additional funding within this time frame, and this additional funding, if needed, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A slowdown in technology or advertising spending, as well as other factors that may arise, could affect our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds. As a result, we may be required to raise additional funds through private or public financing facilities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing would likely be dilutive to our stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants on our operations and financial condition. Our inability to raise capital when needed could seriously harm our business. We have a history of losses and may incur net losses in the foreseeable future. Failure to remain profitable may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. Although we generated income from continuing operations of $1.3 million during the year ended July 31, 2006, we have incurred losses in each fiscal year since our inception and have an accumulated deficit of $741.1 million as of July 31, 2006. We may incur net losses in the future. Failure to remain profitable may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations beyond the next 12 months. Risks Related To Competition If we do not effectively compete with new and existing competitors, our revenue will not grow and may decline, which will adversely impact our financial results. We believe that the emerging collaborative software development market continues to be fragmented, subject to rapid change and highly sensitive to new product introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants. Competition in related markets is intense. If our products gain market acceptance, we expect the competition to rapidly intensify as new competitors enter the marketplace. Our potential competitors include companies entrenched in closely related markets who may choose to enter and focus on collaborative software development. We expect competition to intensify in the future if the market for collaborative software development applications continues to expand. Our potential competitors include providers of software and related services as well as providers of hosted application services. Many of our potential competitors have significantly more resources, more experience, longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. In addition, open source code can be obtained through commercial vendors or downloaded and used on an ad hoc basis to address some collaborative software development challenges. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source code will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Because individual product sales often lead to a broader customer relationship, our products must be able to successfully compete with and complement numerous competitors’ current and potential offerings. Moreover, we may be forced to compete with our strategic partners, and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. Consolidation is underway among companies in the software industry as firms seek to offer more extensive suites of software products and broader arrays of software solutions. Changes resulting from this consolidation may negatively impact our competitive position and operating results. 13 Online competition is intense. Our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our revenue and financial results. The market for Internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. It is not difficult to enter this market and current and new competitors can launch new Internet sites at relatively low cost. We derive revenue from online advertising and sponsorships, for which we compete with various media including newspapers, radio, magazines and various Internet sites. We also derive revenue from E-commerce, for which we compete with other E-commerce companies as well as traditional, “brick and mortar” retailers. We may fail to compete successfully with current or future competitors. Moreover, increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and financial results. If we do not compete successfully for new users and advertisers, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Intellectual Property We are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Any resulting claims against us could be costly to defend or subject us to significant damages. We expect that our software products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. In addition, we may receive patent infringement claims as companies increasingly seek to patent their software. Our developers may fail to perform patent searches and may therefore unwittingly infringe on third-party patent rights. We cannot prevent current or future patent holders or other owners of intellectual property from suing us and others seeking monetary damages or an injunction against shipment of our software offerings. A patent holder may deny us a license or force us to pay royalties. In either event, our operating results could be seriously harmed. In addition, employees hired from competitors might utilize proprietary and trade secret information from their former employers without our knowledge, even though our employment agreements and policies clearly prohibit such practices. Any litigation regarding our intellectual property, with or without merit, could be costly and time consuming to defend, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and cause product shipment delays. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to sell our products in the United States and abroad and could result in an award of substantial damages against us. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any required license could delay shipment of our products and increase our costs. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be immediately and materially adversely affected. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may use our technology and trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue, and increase our costs. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade-secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products that compete against ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, and disclosure of our licensed programs may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. To the extent that we increase our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information will increase. Our collection of trademarks is important to our business. The protective steps we take or have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. We have filed applications for registration of and registered some of our trademarks in the United States and internationally. Effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. Failure to protect our trademark rights adequately could damage our brand identity and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 14 The scope of United States patent protection in the software industry is not well defined and will evolve as the United States Patent and Trademark Office grants additional patents. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed that would relate to our products. Our software business success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. We do not have any software patents, and existing copyright laws afford only limited protection. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that equivalent products will not be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. We cannot assure that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any patent, if issued, would provide us with any competitive advantages or would not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not adversely affect our ability to do business. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. This litigation may be time-consuming and expensive. Other Risks Related To Our Overall Business We may be subject to claims as a result of information published on, posted on or accessible from our Internet sites, which could be costly to defend and subject us to significant damage claims. We may be subject to claims of defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement (including contributory infringement) or other claims relating to the information contained on our Internet sites, whether written by third parties or us. These types of claims have been brought against online services in the past and can be costly to defend regardless of the merit of the lawsuit. Although federal legislation protects online services from some claims when third parties write the material, this protection is limited. Furthermore, the law in this area remains in flux and varies from state to state. We receive notification from time to time of potential claims, but have not been named as a party to litigation involving such claims. While no formal complaints have been filed against us to date, our business could be seriously harmed if one were asserted. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell on our E-commerce web sites, which could be costly to defend and subject us to significant damage claims. Some of the products we offer for sale on our E-commerce web sites, such as consumer electronics, toys, computers and peripherals, toiletries, beverages and clothing, may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from product liability. We make significant investments in new products and services that may fail to become profitable endeavors. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development and marketing for new products and services. For example, in July 2006, we announced our plans to build a SourceForge.net Marketplace platform, including related support systems and infrastructure. Investments in new technology are inherently speculative. Commercial success for new products and services depends on many factors including innovativeness, developer support, and effective marketing. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and services may not meet our internal expectations or the expectations of investors and securities analysts. If our new products and services fail to achieve financial results that meet public expectations, our business could be seriously harmed and our stock price will likely decline. If we are unable to implement appropriate systems, procedures and controls, we may not be able to successfully offer our services and grow our business. Our ability to successfully offer our services and grow our business requires an effective planning and management process. We updated our operations and financial systems, procedures and controls following our strategic decision to exit the hardware business. Our systems will continue to require additional modifications and improvements to respond to current and future changes in our business. If we cannot grow our businesses, and manage that growth effectively, or if we fail to implement in a timely manner appropriate internal systems, procedures, controls and necessary modifications and improvements to these systems, our businesses will suffer. 15 If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, and the results of our operations. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and the San Francisco Bay Area, as well as other geographic markets in which we recruit, is intense and characterized by increasing salaries, which may increase our operating expenses or hinder our ability to recruit qualified candidates. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During our fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $1.32 to $5.83 per share and the closing sale price on July 31, 2006, the last trading day of our fiscal year, was $3.97 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. Sales of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. Several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. If these stockholders were to sell significant amounts of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. The effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. Investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell a substantial amount of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our proprietary information. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. Increasing regulation of the Internet or imposition of sales and other taxes on products sold or distributed over the Internet could harm our business. The electronic commerce market on the Internet is relatively new and rapidly evolving. While this is an evolving area of the law in the United States and overseas, currently there are relatively few laws or regulations that directly apply to commerce on the Internet. Changes in laws or regulations governing the Internet and electronic commerce, including, without limitation, those governing an individual’s privacy rights, pricing, content, encryption, security, acceptable payment methods and quality of products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Taxation of Internet commerce, or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations, may also be imposed. Any of these regulations could have an adverse effect on our future sales and revenue growth. 16 Business disruptions could affect our future operating results. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event. Our corporate headquarters, the majority of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result our future operating results could be adversely affected. System disruptions could adversely affect our future operating results. Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with users, advertisers, merchants and strategic partners will depend on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet channels and network infrastructure. Our Internet advertising revenue relate directly to the number of advertisements delivered to our users. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of Internet channels or slower response times for users would reduce the number of advertisements and sales leads delivered to such users and reduce the attractiveness of our Internet channels to users, strategic partners and advertisers or reduce the number of impressions delivered and thereby reduce revenue. In the past twelve months, some of our sites have experienced a small number of brief service interruptions. We will continue to suffer future interruptions from time to time whether due to natural disasters, telecommunications failures, other system failures, rolling blackouts, viruses, hacking or other events. System interruptions or slower response times could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 