ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses and may not be profitable in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $578.4 million. Our ability to generate profits will depend in large part on our ability to increase our revenues to offset the costs of operating our network and providing services. If we cannot achieve and maintain operating profitability or positive cash flow from operating activities, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. Failure to obtain additional funding may limit our ability to expand our business. As of December 31, 2011, we had working capital of $40.7 million. If we expand our build out in existing or new markets, it will have to be funded by cash flow from operations or from additional financings. Because of our substantial indebtedness and potential adverse changes in the capital markets, our ability to raise additional capital on a timely basis and with acceptable terms or at all is uncertain, and our ability to make distributions or payments is subject to availability of funds and restrictions under our debt instruments and under applicable law. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flows, future financing and flexibility. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $752.1 million of outstanding indebtedness, including accrued interest, and our stockholders’ equity was $20.3 million. We pay interest in cash on our indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: • we may have to dedicate a significant amount of our available funding and cash flow from operating activities to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on outstanding indebtedness; • depending on the levels of our outstanding debt and the terms of our debt agreements, we may have trouble obtaining future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes, especially given the current volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets and the deterioration of general economic conditions; • high levels of indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; and • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure. We may not be able to make future principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our ability to make future principal and interest payments on our debt depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. It is difficult to assess the impact that the general economic downturn and recent turmoil in the capital and credit markets will have on future operations and financial results. We believe that the general economic downturn could result in reduced spending by customers and advertisers, which could reduce our revenues and our cash flows from operating activities from those that otherwise would have been generated. If we cannot grow and generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to service our debt payments, we may be required, among other things to: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt; • sell selected assets; or • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These measures may not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, especially given the recent volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets and the deterioration of general economic conditions in the United States. Restrictions on our business imposed by our credit agreements could limit our growth or activities. Our credit agreements place operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions affect, and any restrictions created by future financings will affect, our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create or incur liens on our assets; • make certain investments; • use the proceeds from the sale of assets; • pay cash dividends on or redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • utilize excess liquidity except for debt reduction; • engage in potential mergers and acquisitions, sale/leaseback transactions or other fundamental changes in the nature of our business; and • make capital expenditures. In addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios, such as debt to EBITDA (earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and EBITDA to cash interest. These limitations may affect our ability to finance our future operations or to engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. If we violate any of these restrictions or any restrictions created by future financings, we could be in default under our agreements and be required to repay our debt immediately rather than at scheduled maturity. Weak economic conditions may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2011, the global financial markets continued to display uncertainty, and the equity and credit markets experienced extreme volatility, which caused already weak economic conditions to worsen. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. To the extent these conditions continue, customers may reduce the advanced or premium services to which they subscribe, or may discontinue subscribing to one or more of our video, voice or data services. This risk may be worsened by the expanded availability of free or lower cost competitive services, such as video streaming over the Internet, or substitute services, such as wireless phones. If these economic conditions continue to deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The soundness of financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to borrow under our credit facilities and to engage in other routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could affect our liquidity or lead to losses or defaults by us. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers, many of whom may be adversely affected by the general economic downturn. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, including falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, together with significant unemployment, have severely affected consumer confidence and may cause increased delinquencies or cancellations by our customers or lead to unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased. The general economic downturn also may affect advertising sales, as companies seek to reduce expenditures and conserve cash. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services or to which we delegate certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to integrate acquired businesses successfully. Our future growth and profitability will depend in part on the success of integrating acquired operations into our operations. Our ability to successfully integrate such operations will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to devote adequate personnel to the integration process while still managing our current operations effectively. We may experience difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses, which could increase our costs or adversely impact our ability to operate our business. Future acquisitions and joint ventures could strain our business and resources. If we acquire existing companies or networks or enter into joint ventures, we may: • miscalculate the value of the acquired company or joint venture; • divert resources and management time; • experience difficulties in integrating the acquired business or joint venture with our operations; • experience relationship issues, such as with customers, employees and suppliers as a result of changes in management; • incur additional liabilities or obligations as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; and • assume additional financial burdens or dilution in connection with the transaction. Additionally, ongoing consolidation in our industry may reduce the number of attractive acquisition targets. The demand for our bundled broadband communications services may be lower than we expect. The demand for video, voice and data services, either alone or as part of a bundle, cannot readily be determined. Our business could be adversely affected if demand for bundled broadband communications services is materially lower than we expect. Our ability to generate revenue will suffer if the markets for the services we offer, including voice and data services, fail to develop, grow more slowly than anticipated or become saturated with competitors. Competition from other providers of video services could adversely affect our results of operations. To be successful, we will need to retain our existing video customers and attract video customers away from our competitors. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, such as long-standing customer relationships, larger networks, and greater experience, resources, marketing capabilities and name recognition. In addition, a 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements continuing trend toward business combinations and alliances in cable television and in the telecommunications industry as a whole, as well as changes in the regulatory environment facilitating entry for additional providers of video service, may result in the emergence of significant new competitors for us. In providing video service, we currently compete with Bright House, Charter, Comcast, Mediacom, Midco and Time Warner. We also compete with satellite television providers, including DirecTV and Echostar. Legislation now allows satellite television providers to offer local broadcast television stations. This may reduce our current advantage over satellite television providers and our ability to attract and maintain customers. The providers of video services in our markets have, from time to time, adopted promotional discounts. We expect these promotional discounts in our markets to continue into the foreseeable future and additional promotional discounts may be adopted. We may need to offer additional promotional discounts to be competitive, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues. In addition, incumbent local phone companies may market video services in their service areas to provide a bundle of services. As telephone service providers offer video services in our markets, it could increase our competition for our video and voice services and for our bundled services. Competition from other providers of voice services could adversely affect our results of operations. In providing local and long-distance telephone services, we compete with the incumbent local phone company in each of our markets. AT&T, CenturyTel, Qwest and Verizon are the primary ILECs in our targeted region. They offer both local and long-distance services in our markets and are particularly strong competitors. To succeed, we must also attract customers away from other telephone companies, and cable television service operators offering telephone services with Internet-based telephony. Cable operators offering voice services in our markets increase competition for our bundled services. Competition from other providers of data services could adversely affect our results of operations. Providing data services is a rapidly growing business and competition is increasing in each of our markets. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, such as greater experience, resources, marketing capabilities and name recognition. In providing data services, we compete with: • local telephone companies that provide dial-up and DSL services; • providers of wireless or satellite-based Internet access services; and • cable television companies. In addition, some providers of data services have reduced prices and engaged in aggressive promotional activities. We expect these price reductions and promotional activities to continue into the foreseeable future and additional price reductions may be adopted. We may need to lower our prices for data services to remain competitive and this could adversely affect our results of operations. Our programming costs are increasing, which could reduce our gross profit. Programming has been our largest single operating expense and we expect this to continue. In recent years, the cable industry has experienced rapid increases in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. Further, local commercial television broadcast stations are beginning to charge retransmission fees, similar to fees charged by other program providers. Our relatively small base of subscribers limits our ability to negotiate lower programming costs. We expect these increases to continue, and we may not be able to pass our programming cost increases on to our customers. In addition, as we increase the channel capacity of our systems and add programming to our expanded basic and digital programming tiers, we may face additional market constraints on our ability to pass programming costs on to our customers. Any inability to pass programming cost increases on to our customers would have an adverse impact on our gross profit. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation—Regulation of Cable Services” for more information. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Programming exclusivity in favor of our competitors could adversely affect the demand for our video services. We obtain our programming by entering into contracts or arrangements with programming suppliers. A programming supplier could enter into an exclusive arrangement with one of our video competitors that could create a competitive advantage for that competitor by restricting our access to this programming. If our ability to offer popular programming on our cable television systems is restricted by exclusive arrangements between our competitors and programming suppliers, the demand for our video services may be adversely affected and our cost to obtain programming may increase. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation—Regulation of Cable Services—Program access” for more information. The rates we pay for pole attachments may increase significantly. The rates we must pay utility companies for space on their utility poles is the subject of frequent disputes. If these rates were to increase significantly or unexpectedly, it would cause our network to be more expensive to operate. It could also place us at a competitive disadvantage with video and telecommunications service providers who do not require or who are less dependent upon pole attachments, such as satellite providers and wireless voice service providers. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation—Regulation of Cable Services—Pole attachments” for more information. Loss of interconnection arrangements could impair our telephone service. We rely on other companies to connect our local telephone customers with customers of other local telephone providers. We presently have access to AT&T’s telephone network under a nine-state interconnection agreement, which expired on December 16, 2011. We have access to Verizon’s telephone network in Florida under an interconnection agreement covering Florida. The initial term of this agreement expired on November 19, 2008. However, the agreement has provisions allowing it to continue in effect after the initial term until a new agreement is executed. Knology notified Verizon of its intent to continue operating under the existing agreement in November 2008. If the AT&T and Verizon agreements are terminated or not renewed, we could be adversely affected and our interconnection arrangements could be on terms less favorable than those we receive currently. It is generally expected that the Communications Act will continue to undergo considerable interpretation and implementation, including potential forbearance from federal regulation enforcing these carriers’ statutory obligations, which could have a negative impact on our interconnection agreements with AT&T and Verizon. It is also possible that further amendments to the Communications Act may be enacted which could have a negative impact on our interconnection agreements with AT&T and Verizon. The contractual arrangements for interconnection and access to unbundled network elements with incumbent carriers generally contain provisions for incorporation of changes in governing law. Thus, future FCC, state public service commission and/or court decisions may negatively impact the rates, terms and conditions of the interconnection services we have obtained and may seek to obtain under these agreements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully in the provision of services will depend on the nature and timing of any such legislative changes, regulations and interpretations and whether they are favorable to us or to our competitors. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation” for more information. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of regulations or legislation. The current telecommunications and cable legislation and regulations are complex and in many areas set forth policy objectives to be implemented by regulation at the federal, state and local levels. It is generally expected that the Communications Act and implementing regulations and decisions, as well as applicable state laws and regulations, will continue to undergo considerable interpretation and implementation. From time to time federal legislation, FCC and PSC decisions, or courts decisions interpreting legislation, FCC or PSC decisions, are made that can affect our business. We cannot predict the timing or the future financial impact of legislation or 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements decisions. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the nature and timing of any such legislative changes, regulations or interpretations, and whether they are favorable to us or to our competitors. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation” for more information. We operate our network under franchises that are subject to non-renewal or termination. Our network generally operates pursuant to franchises, permits or licenses typically granted by a municipality or other state or local government controlling the public rights-of-way. Often, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material terms of the franchise order or the local franchise authority’s regulations. Although none of our existing franchise or license agreements have been terminated, and we have received no threat of such a termination, one or more local authorities may attempt to take such action. We may not prevail in any judicial or regulatory proceeding to resolve such a dispute. Further, franchises generally have fixed terms and must be renewed periodically. Local franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if they consider either past performance or the prospective operating proposal to be inadequate. In a number of jurisdictions, local authorities have attempted to impose rights-of-way fees on providers that have been challenged as violating federal law. A number of FCC and judicial decisions have addressed the issues posed by the imposition of rights-of-way fees on CLECs and on video distributors. To date, the state of the law is uncertain and may remain so for some time. We may become subject to future obligations to pay local rights-of-way fees that are excessive or discriminatory. The local franchising authorities can grant franchises to competitors who may build networks in our market areas. Recent FCC decisions facilitate competitive video entry by limiting the actions that local franchising authorities may take when reviewing applications by new competitors and lessen some of the burdens that can be imposed upon incumbent cable operators with which we ourselves compete. Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose regulatory constraints or requirements on our business, including those that could materially increase our expenses. In the past, local franchise authorities have imposed regulatory constraints on the construction of our network either by local ordinance or as part of the process of granting or renewing a franchise. They have also imposed requirements on the level of customer service we provide, as well as other requirements. The local franchise authorities in our markets may also impose regulatory constraints or requirements that may be found to be consistent with applicable law but which could increase our expenses in operating our business. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation” for more information. We may not be able to obtain telephone numbers for new voice customers in a timely manner. In providing voice services, we rely on access to numbering resources in order to provide our customers with telephone numbers. A shortage of or a delay in obtaining new numbers from numbering administrators, as has sometimes been the case for LECs in the recent past, could adversely affect our ability to expand into new markets or enlarge our market share in existing markets. We may encounter difficulties in implementing and developing new technologies. We have invested in advanced technology platforms that support advanced communications services and multiple emerging interactive services, such as video-on-demand, subscriber video-on-demand, digital video recording, interactive television, IP Centrex services and pure fiber network services. However, existing and future technological implementations and developments may allow new competitors to emerge, reduce our network’s competitiveness or require expensive and time-consuming upgrades or additional equipment, which may also require the write-down of existing equipment. In addition, we may be required to select in advance one technology over another and may not choose the technology that is the most economic, efficient or attractive to customers. We may also encounter difficulties in implementing new technologies, products and services and may encounter disruptions in service as a result. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may encounter difficulties expanding into additional markets. To expand into additional cities, we will have to obtain pole attachment agreements, franchises, construction permits, telephone numbers and other regulatory approvals. Delays in entering into pole attachment agreements, receiving the necessary franchises and construction permits and conducting the construction itself have adversely affected our schedule in the past and could do so again in the future. Difficulty in obtaining numbering resources may also adversely affect our ability to expand into new markets. We may face legal or similar resistance from competitors who are already in markets we wish to enter. These difficulties could significantly harm or delay the development of our business in new markets. See “Item 1. Business—Legislation and Regulation—Regulation of Cable Services—Program access” for more information. We depend on the services of key personnel to implement our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain other qualified management personnel, we may be unable to implement our strategy. Our business is currently managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel. We do not have any employment agreements with, nor do we maintain “key man” life insurance policies on, these or any other employees. The loss of members of our key management and certain other members of our operating personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to manage our anticipated growth depends on our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified management personnel. While we are able to offer competitive compensation to prospective employees, we may still be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining personnel, which could affect our ability to grow effectively and adversely affect our business. Since our business is concentrated in specific geographic locations, our business could be adversely impacted by a depressed economy and natural disasters in these areas. We provide our services to areas in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, South Carolina, South Dakota and Tennessee, which are in the Southeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States. A stagnant or depressed economy in the United States, and the Southeastern or Midwestern United States in particular, could affect all of our markets and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our communications services. Our network is attached to poles and other structures in many of our service areas, and our ability to provide service depends on the availability of electric power. A tornado, hurricane, flood, mudslide or other natural catastrophe in one of these areas could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. In addition, many of our markets are close together, and a single natural catastrophe could damage our network in more than one market. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we issue more stock in future offerings, the percentage of our stock that our stockholders own will be diluted. As of February 29, 2012, we had 37,988,997 shares of common stock outstanding. We also had outstanding on that date options to purchase 3,824,030 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 995,000 shares of common stock. Our authorized capital stock includes 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 199,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which our board of directors has the authority to issue without further stockholder action. Future stock issuances also will reduce the percentage ownership of our current stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of the common stock. As a result, our board of directors could issue shares of preferred stock with the right to receive dividends and the assets of the company upon liquidation prior to the holders of the common stock. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Anti-takeover provision could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and initially declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to stockholders of record as of August 10, 2005. Each right entitles the holder to purchase one unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of our Series X Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $16.00 per unit. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 18% or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $16.00 exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged having a value of $32.00. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us for a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. The rights plan expires on July 27, 2015. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 199 million shares of Preferred Stock (of which 2 million shares have been designated as Series X Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restriction, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Preferred Stock may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Knology without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Further, come provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third-party to gain control of our Board of Directors, Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provision of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. The value of our stock could be hurt by substantial price fluctuations. The value of our common stock could be subject to sudden and material increases and decreases. The value of our stock could fluctuate in response to: • our quarterly operating results; • changes in our business; • changes in the market’s perception of our bundled services; • changes in the businesses or market perceptions of our competitors; and • changes in general market or economic conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, including the decline in the stock market in 2008-2009, that have significantly affected the value of securities of many companies. These changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The value of our common stock could increase or decrease based on change of this type. These fluctuations could materially reduce the value of our stock. Fluctuations in the value of our stock will also affect the value of our outstanding warrants and options, which may adversely affect stockholders’ equity, net income or both. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 