Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with all of the other information contained within this document. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Business Our business activities involve various elements of risk. The risks described below and incorporated herein by reference are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. We consider the following issues to be the most critical risks to the success of our business: Our success depends on the successful commercialization of our existing products and new product candidates. The continued and successful commercialization of our medical device products and technology is crucial for our success. Successful product commercialization and product development in the medical device industry is highly uncertain, and very few product commercialization initiatives or research and development projects produce a significant or successful commercial product. Our products and product candidates are in various stages of commercial and clinical development and face a variety of risks and uncertainties. Principally, these risks and uncertainties include the following: · Commercialization risk. Even if our, or our customers’ or partners’, products or product candidates are successfully developed, receive all necessary regulatory approvals and are commercially produced, there is no guarantee that there will be market acceptance of them or that they will generate or sustain any significant revenues. Our ability to achieve sustainable market acceptance for any of our medical device products or product components will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to: (i) whether competitors develop technologies which are superior to, or less costly than, our products or product candidates; (ii) whether our products or product candidates lead to or directly cause unwanted side effects; (iii) whether government and private third-party payers provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or product candidates; (iv) whether our sales and marketing efforts are effective and of reasonable cost, or are able to reach our target markets and customer base. · Manufacturing and scale-up risk. We, our suppliers or our partners may face significant or unforeseen difficulties in manufacturing our products or product components, including but not limited to (i) technical issues relating to producing products on a commercial scale at reasonable cost, and in a reasonable time frame, (ii) difficulty meeting demand or timing requirements for component orders due to excessive costs or lack of capacity for part or all of an operation or process; (iii) lack of skilled labor or unexpected increases in labor costs needed to produce a certain product or perform a certain operation; (iv) changes in government regulations, quality or other requirements that lead to additional manufacturing costs or an inability to supply product in a timely manner, if at all; (v) increases in raw material or component supply cost or an inability to obtain supplies of certain critical supplies needed to complete our manufacturing processes. These difficulties may only become apparent when scaling up the manufacturing of a product or product candidate to more substantive commercial scale. · Clinical risk. Future clinical trial or study results, whether conducted by or in collaboration with us or by independent third parties, may show or suggest that some or all of our technology, or the technology of our partners that incorporates our technology, is not safe or effective or is not as safe or effective as similar technologies produced by our competitors. · Liquidity and working capital risk. We may not have the working capital and financial resources necessary to effectively market or distribute our products to customers or potential customers, or to finance the launch of any potential new products. Our available working capital to market and distribute our products and product candidates is in part dependent on our ability to sustain our cash flow from operations, if any, to obtain outside financing, to effectively manage our working capital and to repay or refinance our existing debt obligations. If we are unsuccessful in dealing with any of these risks, or if we are unable to successfully commercialize our technology for some other reason, it would likely seriously harm our ability to sustain or to generate additional revenue. We may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and distributing certain of our products. We distribute a number of our products worldwide. In order to achieve commercial success for our approved products, we have established sales and marketing resources in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world. If our distribution personnel or 13 methods are not sufficient to achieve market acceptance of our products, to maintain our current customer relationships or to ensure we have supply to meet demand for our products, it could harm our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenues received will be dependent on the efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Failure to develop an adequate sales and marketing operation or to enter into appropriate arrangements with other companies to market and sell our products will reduce our ability to sustain or generate revenues. The manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and subject to strict regulatory and quality controls. If we or one of our suppliers encounters manufacturing or quality problems, our business could suffer. The manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and subject to strict regulatory and quality controls. In addition, quality is extremely important due to the serious and costly consequences of a product failure. Problems can arise during the manufacturing process for a number of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow protocols and procedures, raw material problems or human error. If these problems arise or if we otherwise fail to meet our internal quality standards or those of the FDA or other applicable regulatory body, which include detailed record-keeping requirements, our reputation could be damaged, we could become subject to a safety alert or a recall, we could incur product liability and other costs, product approvals could be delayed and our business could otherwise be adversely affected. Any adverse events associated with our products must be reported to regulatory authorities. If deficiencies in our or our collaborators’ manufacturing and laboratory facilities are discovered, or we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable post-market regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may close the facility or suspend manufacturing. The significant majority of our products are manufactured, assembled and packaged in facilities that are owned by us. In the event one or more of our facilities is affected by a natural disaster or is unable to operate for any reason, our ability to supply products to our customers may be materially impacted. While we maintain manufacturing disaster and business interruption plans designed to mitigate or eliminate manufacturing interruptions or the financial impact of such, there can be no assurance that such plans or actions taken will be adequate, or that any sales lost during any manufacturing interruption will be recovered. With respect to products manufactured by third-party contractors, we are, and we expect to continue to be, dependent on our collaborators for continuing regulatory compliance, and we may have little or no control over these matters. Our ability to control third-party compliance with the FDA and other regulatory requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. Our failure or the failure of third-party manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to our products may result in legal or regulatory action by those regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that our or our collaborators’ manufacturing processes will satisfy regulatory, cGMPs or International Standards Organization requirements. In addition, there may be uncertainty as to whether or not we or others who are involved in the manufacturing process will be able to make the transition to commercial production of some of our newly developed products. A failure to achieve regulatory approval for manufacturing facilities or a failure to make the transition to commercial production for our products will adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has historically been unprofitable and may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We have incurred a loss from operations in a majority of the years in which we have been operating. Our ability to become profitable and maintain profitability will depend on, among other things, our ability to maintain and improve sales of our existing product lines; our ability to successfully market and sell certain new products and technologies; the amount of royalty revenue we receive from our corporate partners; our ability to develop and successfully launch new products and technologies; our ability to improve our profit margins through lower manufacturing costs and efficiencies or improved product sales mix; and our ability to effectively control our various operating costs. Our working capital and funding needs may vary significantly depending upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, our levels of sales and gross profit; costs associated with our manufacturing operations, including capital expenditures, labor and raw materials costs, and our ability to realize manufacturing efficiencies from our various operations; fluctuations in certain working capital items, including inventory and accounts receivable, that may be necessary to support the growth of our business or new product introductions; the level of royalty revenue we receive from corporate partners; progress of our product development programs and costs associated with completing clinical studies and the regulatory process; collaborative and license arrangements with third parties; the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; expenses associated with litigation; opportunities to in-license complementary technologies or potential acquisitions; potential milestone or other payments we may make to licensors or corporate partners; and technological and market developments that impact our royalty revenue, sales levels or competitive position in the marketplace. 14 The significant decline in royalty payments we receive from BSC, the large amount of our outstanding indebtedness and the related cash interest payments due on such indebtedness, as well as the working capital, capital and other operating expenditures required to operate our Medical Device Products segment, among other factors, have adversely affected our operating cash flows, liquidity and profitability. In order to continue to finance our operations, it may be necessary for us to explore new or alternative sources of financing, which may further impact our operating cash flows, liquidity and profitability. Such financing may not be available when needed, or available on attractive or acceptable terms, due to credit market conditions and other factors. We continue to explore options to improve our capital structure and address our current and future capital needs. If we are not able to adequately address our capital needs or refinance our Senior Floating Rate Notes, there can be no assurances that we will have adequate liquidity and capital resources to satisfy our financial obligations, meet the funding requirements necessary to execute our operating plan or achieve profitability. If our products are alleged to be harmful, we may not be able to sell them, we may be subject to product liability claims not covered by insurance and our reputation could be damaged. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. Using our medical device product candidates in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims. These risks will expand with respect to medical devices that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. In addition, some of the products we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. Even if a medical device were approved for commercial use by an appropriate governmental agency, there can be no assurance that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may have resulted from our products. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, quality system failures, design defects, inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information or other safety issues with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. In addition, although many of our products are subject to review and approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, under the current state of the law, any approval of our products by such agencies will not prohibit product liability lawsuits from being brought against us in the event that our products are alleged to be defective, even if such products have been used for their approved indications and appropriate labels have been included. In the event that anyone alleges that any of our products are harmful, we may experience reduced demand for our products or our products may be recalled from the market. In addition, we may be forced to defend individual or class action lawsuits and, if unsuccessful, to pay a substantial amount in damages. A recall of some of our products could result in exposure to additional product liability claims, lost sales and significant expense to perform the recall. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential loss relating to these types of lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, the cost to defend against any future litigation may be significant. We do not have insurance covering our costs and losses as a result of any recall of products or devices incorporating our technologies, whether such recall is instituted by a device manufacturer or us as required by a regulatory agency. Insurance to cover costs and losses associated with product recalls is expensive. If we seek insurance covering product recalls in the future, it may not be available on acceptable terms. Even if obtained, insurance may not fully protect us against potential liability or cover our losses. Some manufacturers that suffered such claims in the past have been forced to cease operations or declare bankruptcy. We do have insurance covering product liability. However, our insurance may not fully protect us from potential product liability claims. If a product liability claim or a series of claims is brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. Some manufacturers that suffered such claims in the past have been forced to cease operations or declare bankruptcy. Our royalty revenues we receive from BSC have declined significantly, and may continue to decline, thereby negatively impacting our cash flows and liquidity. We do not have control over the sales and marketing efforts, pricing, production volumes, distribution or regulatory environment related to BSC’s paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent program. Our involvement is limited to the terms of our 1997 License Agreement (as amended) with BSC and Cook (the “1977 License Agreement”), which provides for the receipt of royalty revenue based on the net sales of TAXUS. Royalty revenue from BSC has declined significantly, as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. BSC has attributed this significant decline in royalties primarily to competition in the drug-eluting stent market, price pressure in the drug-eluting stent market and a decline in the overall number of drug-eluting stent procedures. Our royalties may decline further due to these and other factors in the future. In addition, if BSC is impaired in its ability to market and distribute TAXUS, whether for these reasons or due to a failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, discovery of a defect in the device, increased incidence of adverse events or 15 identification of other safety issues, or previously unknown problems with the manufacturing operations for TAXUS (any of which could, under certain circumstances, result in a manufacturing injunction), our revenues could be further reduced. BSC’s failure to resolve these issues in a timely manner and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, or the occurrence of similar problems in the future, could delay the launch of additional TAXUS product lines and could have a significant impact on our royalty revenue from sales of TAXUS. Additionally, BSC may terminate our 1997 License Agreement under certain circumstances, including if BSC is unable to acquire a supply of paclitaxel at a commercially reasonable price; if BSC reasonably determines that the paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent is no longer commercially viable; or if our exclusive license agreement with the Public Health Service of the U.S. through the National Institutes of Health (the “NIH”), whereby the NIH granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license to certain technologies of the NIH for the use of paclitaxel (the “the NIH License Agreement”), certain rights under which are sublicensed to BSC, terminates. The amounts payable by BSC to us vary depending on various factors, including the volume of sales in each quarterly period and patent protection laws in the country of sale. There is no guarantee that royalty payments under our 1997 License Agreement will continue, and demand for BSC’s paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent products could continue to decline as a result of the factors stated above, as well as technological change, changes in reimbursement rates or other factors. Also, the royalty rate payable by BSC could decline if and when patent protection expires, or no longer exists (as defined by our 1997 License Agreement) in certain jurisdictions. Our royalty revenue derived from the sale of paclitaxel-eluting coronary stents depends on BSC’s ability to continue to sell its various TAXUS paclitaxel-eluting stent products and to launch next generation paclitaxel-eluting stents in the United States and in other countries. Historically, stent manufacture and sale have been subject to a substantial amount of patent litigation, and BSC and others may become involved in material legal proceedings related to paclitaxel-eluting stents that could impact BSC’s ability to sell TAXUS, thereby negatively impacting our royalty revenue derived from the sale of paclitaxel-eluting coronary stents. We face and will continue to face significant competition. Competition from medical device companies, pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and academic and research institutions is significant. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities, experience conducting clinical trials and financial, scientific, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources and experience than our company. We also face competition from non-medical device companies, such as pharmaceutical companies, which may offer non-surgical alternative therapies for disease states that are currently treated or are intended to be treated using our products. Other companies may: · develop and obtain patent protection for products earlier than we do; · design around patented technology developed by us; · obtain regulatory approvals for such products more rapidly; · have greater manufacturing capabilities and other resources; · have larger or more experienced sales forces; · develop more effective or less expensive products; or · have greater success in obtaining adequate third-party payer coverage and reimbursement for their competing products. While we intend to maintain or expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, there is a risk that: · research and development by others will render our technology or product candidates obsolete or non-competitive; · treatments or cures developed by others will be superior to any therapy developed by us; and · any therapy developed by us will not be preferred to any existing or newly developed technologies. If physicians do not recommend and endorse our products or products that use our technology, or if our working relationships with physicians deteriorate, our products or products that use our technology may not be accepted in the marketplace, which could adversely affect our sales and royalty revenues. In order for us to sell our products or continue to receive royalty revenues from the sale of products that use our technologies, physicians must recommend and endorse them. We believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians are and will be essential for market acceptance of our products, and we do not know whether we will obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from physicians. Acceptance of our products or of products that use our technology depends on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of these products compared to products of competitors, and on training physicians in the proper application of these products. If we are not successful in 16 obtaining the recommendations or endorsements of physicians for our products, or our collaborators are not successful in doing the same for their products that use our technology, our sales and royalty revenues may not increase or may decline. In addition, if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of professionals who use and support our products. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products are dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals while continuing to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could adversely affect the acceptance of our products in the marketplace and our sales. Technological advances and evolving industry standards could reduce our future product sales, which could cause our revenues to grow more slowly or decline. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our products. This could happen, for example, if new standards and technologies emerged that were incompatible with customer deployments of our applications. In addition, any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete or uneconomical before we recover any of the expenses incurred in connection with their development. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change, new industry standards, changed customer requirements or competitive products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Additionally, even if we are able to develop new products and product enhancements, we cannot assure you that they will achieve market acceptance. The commercial potential of our products and product candidates will be significantly limited if we are not able to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement for them. Our ability to commercialize our medical products and product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers or otherwise supported by the market for these products. There can be no assurance that third-party payers’ coverage and reimbursement will be available or sufficient for the products we might develop. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services and instituting cost-containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. These cost containment measures, if instituted in a manner affecting the coverage of or payment for our products, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. In some countries in the E.U. and in the U.S., significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and we do not know whether adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement will be available for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development, which could seriously harm our business. In the U.S., while reimbursement amounts previously approved appear to have provided a reasonable rate of return, there can be no assurance that our products will continue to be reimbursed at current rates or that third-party payers will continue to consider our products cost-effective and provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. We cannot be certain that our products will gain commercial acceptance among physicians, patients and third-party payers, even if necessary international and U.S. marketing approvals are maintained. We believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians will be essential for market acceptance of our products, and we do not know whether these recommendations or endorsements will be obtained. We also believe that surgeons will not use these products unless they determine, based on clinical data and other factors, that the clinical benefits to patients and cost savings achieved through use of these products outweigh their cost. Acceptance among physicians may also depend upon the ability to train surgeons and other potential users of our products and the willingness of such users to learn these relatively new techniques. If certain single-source suppliers fail to deliver key product components in a timely manner, our manufacturing would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on certain single-source suppliers that supply components used in the manufacture of certain of our products. If we need alternative sources for key component parts or materials for any reason, these component parts or materials may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production of certain components or products may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships or force us to curtail or cease operations. 17 Our business is subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations, including risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations. Because we sell our products in a number of countries, our business is subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including risks associated with U.S. government oversight and enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as with the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act and anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: · changes in local medical reimbursement policies and programs; · changes in foreign regulatory requirements; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, such as the current financial uncertainties in Europe and changing circumstances in emerging regions; · trade protection measures, quotas, embargoes, import or export licensing requirements and duties, tariffs or surcharges; · potentially negative impact of tax laws, including tax costs associated with the repatriation of cash; · difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; · cultural, exchange rate or other local factors affecting financial terms with customers; · local economic and financial conditions affecting the collectability of receivables, including receivables from sovereign entities; · economic and political instability and local economic and political conditions; · differing labor regulations; and · differing protection of intellectual property. Substantially all of our sales outside of the U.S. are denominated in local currencies. Measured in local currency, a substantial portion of our international sales was generated in the E.U. The U.S. dollar value of our international sales varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro have the effect of increasing our reported revenues even when the volume of international sales has remained constant. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro, as well as other currencies, have the opposite effect and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our reported revenues and results of operations. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and similar laws in other jurisdictions contain prohibitions against bribery and other illegal payments or for the failure to have procedures in place that prevent such payments. Recent years have seen an increasing number of investigations and other enforcement activities under these laws. Although we have compliance programs in place with respect to these laws, no assurance can be given that a violation will not be found, and if found, the resulting penalties could adversely affect us and our business. Future legislation or regulatory changes to, or consolidation in, the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system, and some could involve changes that could significantly affect our business. For example, the 2010 health reform law was intended to increase the number of individuals covered by health insurance, impose reimbursement provisions intended to restrict the growth in Medicare and Medicaid spending and encourage development of health care delivery programs and models intended to tie payments to quality and care delivery innovations. Included in the health reform law was a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of a wide range of medical devices. The excise tax will become effective in 2013 and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued proposed rules regarding implementation of the excise tax in February 2012. We expect the excise tax to increase our operating expenses. Although some provisions of the health reform legislation have been implemented, many of the legislative changes contained within the health reform legislation will not be effective or implemented until future years. In addition, the Supreme Court will hear arguments related to the constitutionality of portions of the health reform law later this year and the outcome of the case could result in repeal of all or portions of the law. Therefore, the impact of health reform on our business is currently uncertain. Apart from the 2010 health reform law, efforts by governmental and third-party payers to reduce healthcare costs or the announcement of legislative 18 proposals or reforms to implement government controls could cause a reduction in sales or in the selling price of our products, which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, initiatives to reduce the cost of health care have resulted in a consolidation trend in the health care industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from certain market segments as consolidated groups such as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, and third-party reimbursement policies will continue to change the worldwide health care industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to license new technologies, or our existing license agreements are terminated, our ability to maintain our competitive advantage in our existing products and to develop future products may be adversely affected. We have entered into, and we expect that we will continue to enter into, licensing agreements with third parties to give us access to technologies that we may use to develop products, or that we may use to gain access to new products for us to further develop, market and sell through our commercial sales organizations. The technologies governed by these license agreements may be critical to our ability to maintain our competitive advantage in our existing products and to develop future products. Pursuant to terms of our existing license agreements, licensors have the right under certain specified circumstances to terminate their respective licenses. Events that may allow licensors to exercise these termination provisions include: · sub-licensing without the licensor’s consent; · a transaction which results in a change of control of us; · our failure to use the required level of diligence to develop, market and sell products based on the licensed technology; · our failure to maintain adequate levels of insurance with respect to the licensed technologies; · our bankruptcy; or · other acts or omissions that may constitute a breach by us of our license agreement. In addition, any failure to continue to have access to these technologies may materially adversely affect the benefits that we currently derive from our collaboration and partnership arrangements and may adversely affect our results and operations. We may depend on certain strategic partners for the development, regulatory approval, testing, manufacturing and potential commercialization of our products. We have entered into various arrangements with corporate and academic partners, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical testing, regulatory approval, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of our product candidates. For instance, we have partnered with BSC and Cook to develop and market paclitaxel-eluting coronary and peripheral stents. Strategic partners, both existing (particularly BSC) and those that we may collaborate with in the future, are or may be essential to the development of our technology and potential revenue and we have little control over or access to information regarding our partners’ activities with respect to our products. Our strategic partners may fail to successfully develop or commercialize our technology to which they have rights for a number of reasons, including: · failure of a strategic collaborator to continue, or delays in, its funding, research, development and commercialization activities; · the pursuit or development by a strategic collaborator of alternative technologies, either on its own or with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by our programs; · the preclusion of a strategic collaborator from developing or commercializing any product, through, for example, litigation or other legal action; and · the failure of a strategic collaborator to make required milestone payments, meet contractual milestone obligations or exercise options which may result in our terminating applicable licensing arrangements. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or obtain necessary intellectual property rights from third parties, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on ensuring that our intellectual property rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets and on our ability to detect violations of our intellectual property rights and enforce such rights against others. 19 The validity of our patent claims depends, in part, on whether pre-existing public information described or rendered obvious our inventions as of the filing date of our patent applications. We may not have identified all prior art, such as U.S. and foreign patents, published applications or published scientific literature that could adversely affect the validity of our issued patents or the patentability of our pending patent applications. For example, patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) for the entire time prior to their issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the U.S. are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications related to, our technology. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the U.S. It is possible that we may be unsuccessful in the interference, resulting in a loss of some portion or all of our U.S. patent positions. The laws in some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We frequently seek patents to protect our intellectual property. It should be recognized that we may not be able to obtain patent protection for key elements of our technology, as the patent positions of medical device, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal issues are largely unresolved. For example, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the scope of health-related patent claims that are granted by the USPTO or enforced by the U.S. federal courts. Rights under any of our issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection for our products or afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, even if a patent is issued, the coverage claimed in a patent application may be significantly reduced in the patent as granted. There can be no assurance that: · patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; · additional proprietary products developed will be patentable; · licenses we have obtained from third parties that we use in connection with our technology will not be terminated; · patents issued will provide adequate protection or any competitive advantages; · patents will not be successfully challenged by any third parties; or · the patents of others will not impede our or our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our technology. For example, the drug paclitaxel is itself not covered by composition of matter patents. Therefore, although we have developed and are developing an intellectual property portfolio around the use of paclitaxel for intended commercial applications, others may be able to engage in off-label use of paclitaxel for the same indications, causing us to lose potential revenue. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or technologies or, if patents are issued to us, design around any patented technology developed by us, which could affect our potential to generate revenues and harm our results of operations. Patent protection for our technology may not be available based on prior art. The publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. As a consequence, there may be uncertainty as to whether we or a third party were the first creator of inventions covered by issued patents or pending patent applications or that we or a third party were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Moreover, we might have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO, or other proceedings outside the U.S., including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability, which could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome were favorable. An unfavorable outcome in an interference or opposition proceeding could preclude us, our collaborators and our licensees from making, using or selling products using the technology or require us to obtain license rights from prevailing third parties. We do not know whether any prevailing party would offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may also be forced to pay damages or royalties for our past use of such intellectual property rights, as well as royalties for any continued usage. As part of our patent strategy, we have filed a variety of patent applications internationally. Oppositions have been filed against various granted patents that we either own or license and which are related to certain of our technologies. For a summary of certain of our material current legal proceedings, including those relating to our patents and intellectual property, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary intellectual property rights used in our approved products and principal product candidates. Any such success depends in part on effectively instituting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by effectively defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by our competitors and others. The stent-related markets have experienced rapid technological change and obsolescence in the recent past, and our competitors have strong incentives to attempt to stop or delay us from introducing new 20 products and technologies. See “—We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights.” We do not know whether the patents that we have obtained or licensed, or may be able to obtain or license in the future, would be held valid or enforceable by a court or whether a competitor’s technology or product would be found to infringe such patents. Further, we have no assurance that third parties will not properly or improperly modify or terminate any license they have granted to us. We have obtained licenses from third parties with respect to their intellectual property that we use in connection with certain aspects of our technology or products. However, we may need to obtain additional licenses for the development of our current or future products. Licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If available, these licenses may obligate us to exercise diligence in bringing our technology to market and may obligate us to make minimum guarantee or milestone payments. This diligence and these milestone payments may be costly and could adversely affect our business. We may also be obligated to make royalty payments on the sales, if any, of products resulting from licensed technology and may be responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. These costs could affect our results of operations and decrease our earnings. Certain of our key technologies include trade secrets and know-how that may not be protected by patents. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our trade secrets. To help protect our rights, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that all employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators have signed such agreements, or that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. Our ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others. A number of medical device, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with or adversely affect our technologies or intellectual property rights, including those that we license from others. We are aware of other parties holding intellectual property rights that may represent prior art or other potentially conflicting intellectual property. Any conflicts with the intellectual property of others could limit the scope of the patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain or result in the denial of our current or future patent applications altogether. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other persons or companies, we could be charged with infringement. In the event that other parties’ patents cover any portion of our activities, we may be forced to develop alternatives or negotiate a license for such technology. We do not know whether we would be successful in either developing alternative technologies or acquiring licenses upon reasonable terms, if at all. Obtaining any such licenses could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could harm our business and decrease our earnings. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in the introduction of our products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is prohibited. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. In connection with maintaining the value of our various intellectual property and exclusivity rights, we regularly evaluate the activities of others worldwide. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, or licenses to patents, maintain trade secret protection and enforce our rights against others. Should it become necessary to protect those rights, we intend to pursue all cost-efficient strategies, including, when appropriate, negotiation or litigation in any relevant jurisdiction. For a summary of certain of our current legal proceedings, including proceedings in respect of patent infringement and intellectual property matters, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We intend to pursue and to defend vigorously any and all actions of third parties related to our material patents and technology. Any failure to obtain and protect intellectual property could adversely affect our business and our ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others. 21 Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affecting the development of product candidates or sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources, and intellectual property litigation may be used against us as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could affect our ability to continue our operations. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: · pay substantial damages or back royalties; · cease the development, manufacture, use or sale of product candidates or products that infringe upon the intellectual property of others; · expend significant resources to design around a patent or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; · discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or · obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring non-infringing intellectual property or that necessary licenses will be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we cannot develop or acquire such intellectual property or obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in any introduction of products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be prohibited. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the USPTO, or other proceedings outside the United States, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability, which could result in substantial cost to us even if the eventual outcome were favorable. We must receive regulatory approval for each of our product candidates before they can be sold commercially in Canada, the U. S. or internationally, which can take significant time and be very costly. The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and human therapeutic products in Canada, the U.S. and internationally is governed by a variety of statutes and regulations. These laws require, among other things: · regulatory approval of manufacturing facilities and practices; · adequate and well-controlled research and testing of products in pre-clinical and clinical trials; · review and approval of submissions containing manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical data in order to obtain marketing approval based on establishing the safety and efficacy of the product for each use sought, including adherence to current cGMPs during production and storage; and · control of marketing activities, including advertising and labeling. The product candidates currently under development by us or our collaborators will require significant research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, pre-market review and approval, and investment of significant funds prior to their commercialization. In many instances, we are dependent on our collaborators for regulatory approval and compliance, and have little or no control over these matters. The process of completing clinical testing and obtaining such approvals is likely to take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and we do not know whether any clinical studies by us or our collaborators will be successful, whether regulatory approvals will be received, or whether regulatory approvals will be obtained in a timely manner. Despite the time and resources expended by us, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, regulatory agencies may limit the approval to certain diseases, conditions or categories of patients who can use them. If any of our development programs are not successfully completed in a timely fashion, required regulatory approvals are not obtained in a timely fashion, or products for which approvals are obtained are not commercially successful, it could seriously harm our business. If our process related to product development does not result in an approved and commercially successful product, our business could be adversely affected. We focus our product development activities on areas in which we have particular strengths. The outcome of any development program is highly uncertain, notwithstanding how promising a particular program may seem. Success in pre-clinical and early-stage clinical trials may not necessarily translate into success in large-scale clinical trials. Further, clinical trials are expensive and may require increased investment for which we do not have adequate funding or for which we are not able to access adequate funding. 22 In addition, we will need to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in order to market new products. Notwithstanding the outcome of clinical trials for new products, regulatory approval may not be achieved. The results of clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent approval or result in the need for post-marketing studies. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and review by regulators of a new application may cause delays or rejection. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may include limitations on the indications for which we can market the product. There is no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the applicable regulatory requirements, and we may suffer a significant variation from planned revenue as a result. Compulsory licensing and/or generic competition may affect our business in certain countries. In a number of countries, governmental authorities have the right to grant licenses to others to use a pharmaceutical or medical device company’s patents or other intellectual property without the consent of the owner of the patent or other intellectual property. Governmental authorities could use this right to grant licenses under our patents or other intellectual property to others or could require us to grant licenses under our patents or other intellectual property to others, thereby allowing our competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products. In other circumstances, governmental authorities could use this right to require us or our licensees to reduce the prices of our products. In all of these situations, our sales or the sales of our licensee(s), and the results of our operations, in these countries could be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation that could strain our resources and distract management. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits and other disputes. These suits may concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, employee-related matters, intellectual property and personal injury matters. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, and the ultimate resolution of these matters as well as future lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or reputation. For a summary of certain of our material current legal proceedings, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no such claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. Our research and development processes and manufacturing operations involve the use of hazardous materials. In the countries in which we operate or sell our products, we are subject to federal, state, provincial, local and other laws and regulations that govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident or the discovery of pre-existing contamination at one or more of our facilities, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. In addition, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to new or increased legislation or regulation as a result of climate control initiatives. We may not be specifically insured with respect to these liabilities, and we do not know whether we will be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, or whether our operations, business or assets will be harmed by current or future environmental laws or regulations. If we are unable to fully comply with federal and state “fraud and abuse laws,” we could face substantial penalties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, physician self-referral laws (the “Stark Law”), the U.S. False Claims Act, HIPAA (as amended by HITECH), the U.S. False Statements Statute, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and state law equivalents to these U.S. federal laws, which may not be limited to government-reimbursed items and may not contain identical exceptions. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal and state health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of operations. Any action against us for violation of these laws could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 23 Practices Act. Any action against us for violation by us or our agents or distributors of this act could have a significant impact on our business. Acquisition of companies or technologies may result in disruptions to our business. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire additional assets, products or businesses principally relating to or complementary to our current operations. Any acquisitions or mergers by us will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. These risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. In addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. If significant acquisitions are made for cash consideration, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Future acquisitions by us may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. Acquisition financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to hire and retain key management and technical personnel, we may be unable to successfully implement our business plan. We are highly dependent on our senior management and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the health care field is intense, and we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified managerial and technical personnel. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require continued implementation and improvement of our management systems and the ability to recruit and train new employees. We may not be able to successfully attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel, which could harm our ability to develop our product candidates and generate revenues. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness, Organization and Financial Position We may not be able to service our debt or obtain future financing. We may incur additional debt from time to time to finance our operations, for capital expenditures or for other purposes. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms; · we are be required to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay the interest or principal on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; · a substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to further modify our operations; · we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and · we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We can give no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. Our obligation to pay cash interest on our notes has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our liquidity. We are obligated to make periodic cash interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness. As a result of these required cash interest payments, combined with the significant decline in royalty payments we receive from BSC, we have had significant liquidity issues, which led to our need to restructure a significant portion of our indebtedness through the Recapitalization Transaction as concluded in May 2011. For more information on the Recapitalization Transaction, refer to the “Recapitalization Transaction and Emergence from Creditor Protection Proceedings” section of Management’s, Discussion and Analysis and notes 1, 3 and 4 of the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If our cash flows are worse than expected, we may be unable to access additional sources of liquidity to fund our cash needs, which could further adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. 24 We may not be able to obtain financing or execute other strategic alternatives to meet requirements upon maturity of our existing debt. We continue to have a material amount of outstanding indebtedness, the significant majority of which will become fully due and payable on or before December 1, 2013. As a result, we will need to seek new financing, or other strategic alternatives such as a disposition of part or all of our business, that would allow us to meet our obligations to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve any transaction or obtain new financing to meet our obligations on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise new or additional financing or conclude other strategic activities, and as a result we are not able to meet our financial obligations, we may be forced to pursue alternatives to restructure our outstanding indebtedness, including but not limited to extending the maturity on our existing indebtedness, restructuring other terms of our existing indebtedness or seeking protection from our creditors through formal bankruptcy proceedings. If such actions become necessary, they may be costly, and would likely adversely impact our business, operations, liquidity and capital resources, and may also severely limit or eliminate any amounts that may be ultimately received by our outstanding creditors in service of our obligations thereto, or that may be received by shareholders. We have effected reductions in our operating costs and, as a result, our ability to cut costs further and sustain our business initiatives may be limited. Beginning in late 2008 and continuing into 2011, we have implemented various initiatives to reduce operating costs across all functions of the Company and focus our business efforts on our most promising near-term product opportunities. As a result of these cost-cutting initiatives, we may have a more limited ability to further reduce costs to increase our liquidity should such measures become necessary. Any further reductions may have a materially negative impact on our business. Restrictive covenants in our existing and future credit agreements may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in our revolving credit facility; which was entered into on May 12, 2011 and provides us with up to $28 million of aggregate principal borrowings (as amended, the “Revolving Credit Facility”); and the indentures governing our other outstanding indebtedness. The Revolving Credit Facility is subject to a borrowing base, certain reserves and other conditions (for more information, refer to notes 16(c) and 16(f) of the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · make any distributions, declare or pay any dividends on or acquire any of our capital stock; · incur liens; · make investments, including joint venture investments; · sell assets; · repurchase certain debt; and · merge or consolidate with or into other companies or sell substantially all of our assets. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. Our Revolving Credit Facility requires us to make mandatory payments upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions. Our Revolving Credit Facility also contains financial covenants, including maintaining certain levels of EBITDA and interest coverage ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Global credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Significantly challenging global credit and financial market conditions may make obtaining additional financing for our business difficult or impossible, or may make it more difficult to pursue a refinancing, restructuring or other transaction with respect to our existing indebtedness. In addition, the tightening of global credit may lead to a disruption in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or partners. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including but not limited to royalty revenue, portions of our product manufacturing and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. 25 Certain of our products are used in elective medical procedures which are not covered by insurance. Adverse changes in the economy or other conditions or events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on consumer spending and may reduce the demand for these procedures. Any such changes, conditions or events could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are permitted to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. The respective terms of the indenture governing our outstanding indebtedness under certain conditions expressly permit, or are anticipated to permit, as applicable, the incurrence of additional amounts of debt for specified purposes. Moreover the terms governing our outstanding indebtedness do not impose any limitation on our incurrence of liabilities that are not defined as “Indebtedness” under such indentures or facility (such as trade payables). We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. As a medical device company with significant operations in the U.S., E.U., Canada and other countries, we are subject to political, economic, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in conducting business globally. These risks include foreign exchange fluctuations, exchange controls, capital controls, new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, political instability, macroeconomic changes, including recessions and inflationary or deflationary pressures, increases in prevailing interest rates by central banks or financial services companies, economic uncertainty, which may reduce the demand for our products or reduce the prices that our customers are willing to pay for our products, import or export restrictions, tariff increases, price controls, nationalization and expropriation, changes in taxation, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, lack of access to impartial court systems, violations of law, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, disruption or destruction of operations or changes to the Company’s business position, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection, social unrest, strikes and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. The impact of any of these developments, either individually or cumulatively, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations. We report our operating results and financial position in U.S. dollars in order to more accurately represent the currency of the economic environment in which we operate. Our operations are in some instances conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause us to incur currency exchange losses. In addition to the U.S. dollar, we currently conduct operations in Canadian dollars, Euros, Swiss francs, Danish kroner, Swedish kroner, Norwegian kroner and U.K. pounds sterling. Exchange rate fluctuations may reduce our future operating results and comprehensive income. For a description of the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our results, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” under Item 7.A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have not entered into any forward currency contracts or other financial derivatives to hedge foreign exchange risk, and therefore we are subject to foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses. We purchase goods and services in U.S. and Canadian dollars, Euros, Swiss francs, Danish kroner, and U.K. pounds sterling, and earn a significant portion of our license and milestone revenues in U.S. dollars. We primarily manage our foreign exchange risk by satisfying foreign-denominated expenditures with cash flows or assets denominated in the same currency. U. S. investors may not be able to obtain enforcement of civil liabilities against us. We were formed under the laws of British Columbia, Canada. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be impossible for U.S. investors to affect service of process within the U.S. upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, judgments of U.S. courts will not necessarily be recognized by courts in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Accordingly, even if a favorable judgment is obtained in a U.S. court, a party may be required to re-litigate a claim in other jurisdictions. In addition, in certain jurisdictions in which certain of our subsidiaries are organized, it is questionable whether a court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability if proceedings were commenced in an original action predicated only upon U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 