RISK FACTORS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, as discussed in more detail above under Item 1, "Business - Special Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY The Company's growth strategy may not be successful. The future growth of the Company's business and its future financial performance will depend on, among other things, its ability to increase its revenue base through a combination of internal growth and strategic ventures, including acquisitions. The Company's home health services business experienced no growth during the fiscal periods from 1998 through 2001. During fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004, revenue grew 5.3 percent, 5.9 percent and 3.9 percent, respectively; however, future revenue growth cannot be assured as it is subject to the effects of competition, various risk factors including the uncertainty of Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance reimbursement, the ability to generate new and retain existing contracts with major payer sources and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition among home healthcare companies is intense. The home health services industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a variety of other companies in providing home health services, some of which may have greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities. Competing companies may offer newer or different -5- services from those offered by the Company and may thereby attract customers who are presently receiving the Company's home health services. The cost of healthcare is funded substantially by government and private insurance programs. If such funding is reduced or becomes limited or unavailable to the Company's customers, the Company's business may be adversely impacted. Third-party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging prices charged for healthcare services. The Company cannot be assured that its services will be considered cost-effective by third-party payers, that reimbursement will be available or that payers' reimbursement policies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to sell its services on a profitable basis, if at all. The Company cannot control reimbursement rates or policies for a significant portion of its business. Possible changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payer mix and payment methodologies, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability. The sources and amounts of the Company's patient revenues will be determined by a number of factors, including the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payers. Changes in the case mix of the patients as well as payer mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect the Company's profitability. In particular, any significant increase in the Company's Medicaid population or decrease in Medicaid payments could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and cash flow, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates or service levels. The loss of significant contracts, as well as significant reductions in members covered under such contracts, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company has entered into service agreements with a number of managed care organizations to provide, or contracted with third-party providers to provide, home nursing services, acute and chronic infusion therapies, durable medical equipment and respiratory products and services to patients insured by those organizations. One such contract with Cigna accounted for 31 percent of the Company's total net revenues for the year ended January 2, 2005. The Company and Cigna entered into a new home healthcare contract effective January 1, 2004 and expiring on December 31, 2006. Under the termination provisions of the contract, Cigna has the right to terminate the agreement on December 31, 2005, if it provides 90 days advance written notice to the Company. If the Cigna contract or any other similar significant contract were to terminate or if there were a significant decrease in enrolled members, or products and services covered under the Company's contract with Cigna or any other organization, it could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Further consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payers may adversely affect the Company's profits. Managed care organizations and other third-party payers have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the United States population are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent that such organizations terminate the Company as a preferred provider and/or engage its competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider, the Company's business could be adversely affected. In addition, private payers, including managed care payers, could seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, thereby potentially reducing the Company's profitability. The Company and the healthcare industry continue to experience shortages in qualified home health service employees and management personnel. The Company competes with other healthcare providers for its employees, both clinical associates and management personnel. As the demand for home health services continues to exceed the supply of available and -6- qualified staff, the Company and its competitors have been forced to offer more attractive wage and benefit packages to these professionals. Furthermore, the competitive arena for this shrinking labor market has created turnover as many seek to take advantage of the supply of available positions, each offering new and more attractive wage and benefit packages. In addition to the wage pressures inherent in this environment, the cost of training new employees amid the turnover rates has caused added pressure on the Company's operating margins. An economic downturn, continued deficit spending by the federal government and state budget pressures may result in a reduction in reimbursement and covered services. An economic downturn can have a detrimental effect on revenues. Historically, these budget pressures have translated into reductions in state spending. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, the Company can expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for the Company's services in the states in which it operates. In addition, an economic downturn may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs as well as the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced reimbursement rates. Deficit spending by the government as the result of adverse developments in the economy or other reasons could lead to increased pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including governmentally funded programs in which the Company participates, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company may experience disruption to its business and operations from the effects of natural disasters or terrorist acts. The occurrence of natural disasters or terrorist acts, and the erosion to the Company's business caused by such an occurrence, may adversely impact the Company's profitability. In the affected areas, Company offices may be forced to close for limited or extended periods of time, and the Company may face a reduced supply of clinical associates. The agreement governing the Company's existing revolving credit facility contains, and future debt agreements may contain, various covenants that limit the Company's discretion in the operation of its business. The agreement and instruments governing the Company's existing revolving credit facility contain, and the agreements and instruments governing its future debt agreements may contain, various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require it to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict the Company's ability to: - incur more debt; - redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions; - make certain investments; - create liens; - enter into transactions with affiliates; - make acquisitions; - merge or consolidate; and - transfer or sell assets. In addition, events beyond the Company's control could affect its ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios. Any failure by the Company to comply with or maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to its existing revolving credit facility or future debt agreements. This could lead to the acceleration of the maturity of the facility and the termination of the commitments to make further extension of credit. The Company has no outstanding debt as of January 2, 2005, but could incur debt in the future. If the Company were unable to repay debt to its senior lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Even if the Company is able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on its ability to operate its business at its sole discretion could harm its business by, among other things, limiting its ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. -7- The Company has risks related to obligations under its insurance programs. The Company is obligated for certain costs under various insurance programs, including employee health and welfare, workers compensation and professional liability. The Company may be subject to workers compensation claims and lawsuits alleging negligence or other similar legal claims. The Company maintains various insurance programs to cover these risks with insurance policies subject to substantial deductibles and retention amounts. The Company also may be subject to exposure relating to employment law and other related matters for which the Company does not maintain insurance coverage. The Company believes that its present insurance coverage and reserves are sufficient to cover currently estimated exposures; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will not incur liabilities in excess of recorded reserves or in excess of its insurance limits. The Company has risks resulting from the sale of its SPS business. Certain representations and warranties made by the Company to Accredo under the asset purchase agreement dated January 2, 2002 continue to survive the closing of the SPS sale on June 13, 2002. The Company may have indemnification obligations to Accredo if there is a breach of the surviving representations and warranties. These indemnification obligations are discussed in more detail below under Item 3 "Legal Proceedings - Indemnifications." The Company is unable to predict the amount, if any, that may be required for it to satisfy its indemnification obligations under the asset purchase agreement should any claims arise. Should any significant payment be required, the Company may not have sufficient funds available to satisfy its potential indemnification obligations or may not be able to obtain the funds on terms satisfactory to the Company, if at all. RISKS RELATED TO HEALTHCARE REGULATION Legislative and regulatory actions resulting in changes in reimbursement rates or methods of payment from Medicare and Medicaid, or implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for the Company's services, may have a material adverse effect on its revenues and operating margins. In fiscal 2004, 45 percent of the Company's net revenues were generated from Medicare and Medicaid and Local Government programs. The healthcare industry is experiencing a strong trend toward cost containment, as the government seeks to impose lower reimbursement and utilization rates and negotiate reduced payment schedules with providers. These cost containment measures generally have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement for services that the Company provides. In addition, the timing of payments made under these programs is subject to regulatory action and governmental budgetary constraints. For certain Medicaid programs, the time period between submission of claims and payment has increased. Further, within the statutory framework of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, there are a substantial number of areas subject to administrative rulings and interpretations that may further affect payments made under those programs. Additionally, the federal and state governments may in the future reduce the funds available under those programs or require more stringent utilization and quality reviews of providers. Moreover, there can be no assurances that adjustments from Medicare or Medicaid audits will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company conducts business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations and violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions. The Company's business is subject to extensive federal, state and, in some cases, local regulation. Compliance with these regulatory requirements, as interpreted and amended from time to time, can increase operating costs or reduce revenue and thereby adversely affect the financial viability of the Company's business. Because these laws are amended from time to time and are subject to interpretation, the Company cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. Failure to comply with current or future regulatory requirements could also result in the imposition of various remedies, including fines, the revocation of licenses or decertification. Unanticipated increases in operating costs or reductions in revenue could adversely affect the Company's liquidity. -8- The Company is subject to periodic audits and requests for information by the Medicare and Medicaid programs or government agencies, which have various rights and remedies against the Company if they assert that the Company has overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. The operation of the Company's home health services business is subject to federal and state laws prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including laws containing criminal provisions, which prohibit filing false claims or making false statements in order to receive payment or obtain certification under Medicare and Medicaid programs, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Violation of these criminal provisions is a felony punishable by imprisonment and/or fines. The Company may also be subject to fines and treble damage claims if it violates the civil provisions that prohibit knowingly filing a false claim or knowingly using false statements to obtain payment. State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") and the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 ("BBA") expanded the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader provisions for the exclusion of providers from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Company has established policies and procedures that it believes are sufficient to ensure that it will operate in substantial compliance with these anti-fraud and abuse requirements. On April 17, 2003, the Company received a subpoena from the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General, Office of Investigations ("OIG"). The subpoena seeks information regarding the Company's implementation of settlements and corporate integrity agreements entered into with the government, as well as the Company's treatment on cost reports of employees engaged in sales and marketing efforts. With respect to the cost report issues, the government has preliminarily agreed to narrow the scope of production to the period from January 1, 1998 through September 30, 2000. On February 17, 2004, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") seeking additional information related to the matters covered by the OIG subpoena. The Company has provided documents and other information requested by the OIG and DOJ pursuant to their subpoenas and similarly intends to cooperate fully with any future OIG or DOJ information requests. To the Company's knowledge, the government has not filed a complaint against the Company. While the Company believes that its business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid programs criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. The imposition of fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is also subject to federal and state laws that govern financial and other arrangements between healthcare providers. These laws often prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical products and services. Furthermore, some states restrict certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. Many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as a provider of, medical care. Possible sanctions for violation of any of these restrictions or prohibitions include loss of licensure or eligibility to participate in reimbursement programs and civil and criminal penalties. These laws vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. The Company faces additional federal requirements that mandate major changes in the transmission and retention of health information. HIPAA was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The enactment of HIPAA expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Among the standards that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security and electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. Although HIPAA was intended to ultimately reduce administrative expenses and burdens faced within the healthcare industry, the Company believes that implementation of this law has resulted and will result -9- in additional costs. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the Company. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK The market price of the Company's common stock may be volatile and experience substantial fluctuations. The Company's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market. The price of the common stock may fluctuate substantially based on a number of factors, including: - the Company's operating and financial performance; - changes, or proposed changes, in government regulations; - stock market conditions generally and specifically as they relate to the home health services industry; - developments in litigation or government investigations; - changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts who follow the Company's stock; and - economic and political uncertainties in the marketplace generally. Significant fluctuations in the market price of the Company's common stock may adversely affect the Company's shareholders. Provisions in the Company's organizational documents, Delaware law and the Company's rights agreement could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. Provisions in the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and the Company's rights agreement could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace the Company's current management without the consent of the board of directors. Provisions in the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include: - the classification of the board of directors into three classes, each class serving "staggered" terms of office of three years; - limitations on the removal of directors so that they may only be removed for cause; - the ability of the board of directors to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of the preferred stock without shareholder approval; and - the prohibition on the right of shareholders to call meetings or act by written consent and limitations on the right of shareholders to present proposals or make nominations at shareholder meetings. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between the Company and any holder of 15 percent or more of the Company's outstanding common stock. In addition, the Company has a rights agreement that has the effect of deterring take-overs of the Company without the consent of the board of directors. Generally, once a party acquires 10 percent or more of the Company's common stock, the rights agreement may cause that party's ownership interest in the Company to be diluted unless the board of directors consents to the acquisition. -10- 