Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with all of the other information contained within this document. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to the Recapitalization Transaction We may not be successful in implementing the Recapitalization Transaction. We have been under CCAA protection since January 28, 2011 during which time the Company’s management, with input from the Company’s board of directors (the “Board of Directors”) and a committee of independent directors of the Board of Directors formed on July 29, 2010 (the “Independent Committee”), have negotiated the terms of the CCAA Plan and related agreements. If the CCAA Plan is not implemented before April 30, 2011 and another plan is not proposed that meets the approval requirements of the Canadian Court, we may remain under CCAA protection for an indefinite period of time and our businesses could substantially erode or an insolvency proceeding involving the liquidation of our assets with a view to recovering the amounts owing to the creditors could result. If the Recapitalization Transaction is not completed, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete a recapitalization or restructuring of our businesses or that any such recapitalization or restructuring will be on terms that provide equivalent value to our creditors compared to the consideration to be received by creditors pursuant to the Recapitalization Transaction and the CCAA Plan. If we are not able to consummate the Recapitalization Transaction by April 30, 2011, the RSA may be terminated and the FRN Support Agreement may be terminated, and we will be required to pursue other alternatives that could have a more negative effect on the Company and its stakeholders. Pursuant to the terms of the RSA, if the Recapitalization Transaction is not implemented on or before April 30, 2011 the RSA may be terminated by the holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of the Subordinated Notes party to the RSA. Similarly, under the terms of the FRN Support Agreement, if the Recapitalization Transaction is not implemented on or before April 30, 2011 the FRN Support Agreement may be terminated by holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount outstanding of Existing Floating Rate Notes party to the FRN Support Agreement. It is a condition to the FRN Support Agreement that the transactions contemplated by the RSA are concurrently implemented with the transactions contemplated by the FRN Support Agreement. Further, the implementation of the transactions under the FRN Support Agreement is a condition of the RSA. As a result, the termination of one of either the RSA or the FRN Support Agreement will result in a condition of the other that cannot be satisfied. If either or both of the RSA or the FRN Support Agreement are terminated and the CCAA Plan is not implemented, we will have an immediate need to pursue other alternatives to manage our liquidity needs, including potentially filing for protection under the insolvency laws of various jurisdictions on terms other than as contemplated by the CCAA Plan. We do not expect, and there can be no assurance, that any alternative to such filings would be found. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to consummate the CCAA Plan, the Company will face an immediate liquidity crisis that will likely result in the Company filing for protection under the insolvency laws of various jurisdictions on terms other than as contemplated by the CCAA Plan, which could materially adversely affect the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, employees, partners and other stakeholders. We believe that seeking relief under the CCAA, Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and/or other similar insolvency laws and seeking to implement a restructuring on terms other than as contemplated by the CCAA Plan could materially adversely affect the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, employees, partners and other stakeholders. For example: • such bankruptcy filings could erode our customers’ confidence in our ability to provide our products and services and, as a result, there could be a significant and precipitous decline in our revenues, profitability and cash flow; • our employees could be distracted from performance of their duties, or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; • it may be more difficult to attract or replace key employees; • our lenders and other partners could seek to terminate their relationship with us, require financial assurances or enhanced performance, or refuse to provide credit on the same terms as prior to the reorganization case; • we could be forced to operate in bankruptcy for an extended period of time while we tried to develop a reorganization plan that could be confirmed, which we believe may impair our business and prospects; or • our suppliers, vendors, and service providers could terminate their relationship with us or require financial assurances or enhanced performance. In addition, any distributions in respect of, Affected Claims (as defined in the CCAA Plan,) under a liquidation or under a protracted reorganization case or cases under insolvency laws, other than in connection with the CCAA Plan, would likely be substantially delayed and the value of any potential recovery would likely be adversely impacted by such delay. Furthermore, in the event of any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization, or other insolvency proceeding other than in connection with the CCAA Plan, there can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that would be available to Affected Creditors (as defined in the CCAA Plan). The Affected Claims (including claims in respect of the Subordinated Notes) are unsecured obligations of the Company and rank junior to the secured obligations of the Company under the credit agreement with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (f/k/a Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC, “Wells Fargo”) dated February 27, 2009 (as amended, the “Existing Credit Facility”). Accordingly, upon any distribution to our creditors in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization, or other insolvency proceeding relating to us or our property other than in connection with the CCAA Plan, the indebtedness under our Existing Credit Facility will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to the Affected Claims. If the CCAA Plan is not approved, Affected Creditors may receive less value for their Affected Claims in the event of any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization, or other insolvency proceeding other than the CCAA Plan than they would under the Recapitalization Transaction. In the event the Recapitalization Transaction is not implemented and creditor protection is no longer available under the CCAA, we will be required to pursue other alternatives that could have a more negative effect on the Company and its stakeholders, including the sale of core assets or non-consensual proceedings under insolvency statutes. Should creditor protection no longer be available under the CCAA, then: • the Company’s long-term debt will not be reduced by approximately $250 million and the associated net reduction in debt service costs would not be achieved; 21 Table of Contents • the holders of Existing Floating Rate Notes and Subordinated Notes may enforce their remedies against the Company pursuant to the indentures governing such notes as a result of the defaults caused by the missed interest payment under the terms of those agreements; and • the Company believes its cash flow from operations and available liquidity would be insufficient to provide adequate funds to finance its operations, and the Company would be unable to meet its obligations as they generally become due. In addition, any distributions in respect of Affected Claims under a liquidation or under a protracted reorganization case or cases under insolvency laws, other than in connection with the CCAA Plan, would likely be substantially delayed and the value of any potential recovery would likely be adversely impacted by such delay. Furthermore, in the event of any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization, or other insolvency proceeding other than in connection with the CCAA Plan, there can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that would be available to Affected Creditors. The Affected Claims including the Subordinated Notes are unsecured obligations and rank junior to the secured obligations under the Existing Credit Facility. Accordingly, upon any distribution to our creditors in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization, or other insolvency proceeding relating to us or our property other than in connection with the CCAA Plan, the indebtedness under our Existing Credit Facility will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to the Affected Claims. If the CCAA Plan is not approved, Affected Creditors may receive less value for their Affected Claims in the event of any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization, or other insolvency proceeding other than the CCAA Plan than they would under the Recapitalization Transaction. The conditions to the CCAA Plan may not be satisfied or waived. Implementation of the CCAA Plan is subject to various conditions, including the granting of the order of the Canadian Court sanctioning and approving the CCAA Plan (the “Sanction Order”), which must be fulfilled prior to implementation and effectiveness of the CCAA Plan. As of the date hereof, there can be no assurance that any or all of the conditions in the CCAA Plan or in the agreements pertaining to the CCAA Proceedings, such as the RSA and the FRN Support Agreement, will be satisfied (or waived, if applicable). Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the CCAA Plan will be consummated even if approved by the Affected Creditors. The consummation of the Recapitalization Transaction may be delayed. We have incurred significant costs and expenses to date in connection with our ongoing restructuring efforts. Even if the Recapitalization Transaction is completed, it may not be completed on the schedule described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or on or prior to April 30, 2011. Accordingly, Affected Creditors participating in the Recapitalization Transaction may have to wait longer than expected to receive consideration, if any, for their Affected Claims. In addition, if the Recapitalization Transaction is not completed on the schedule described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may incur additional expenses. There is uncertainty regarding the financial condition of our business. Adverse publicity or news coverage relating to the Company’s CCAA Proceedings could have an adverse effect on all or parts of our businesses. Following the implementation of the CCAA Plan, there can be no assurance that negative publicity may not adversely affect our results from operations or have a long-term negative effect on our businesses. In addition, such uncertainty may adversely affect the Company’s relationships with its suppliers and customers. Following the implementation of the CCAA Plan, suppliers and customers may continue to be 22 Table of Contents concerned about the financial condition of the Company’s businesses and, as a result, they may demand faster payment terms or not extend normal trade credit, both of which could adversely affect the Company’s working capital position. The Company may not be successful in obtaining alternative suppliers and customers if the need arises and this would adversely affect the Company’s results from operations and our ability to conduct our business. We have filed under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to effectuate the CCAA Proceedings in the United States as set forth in the CCAA Plan. We cannot assure you that any plan of reorganization ultimately confirmed in the Chapter 15 Cases will have the same terms as set forth in the CCAA Plan. Claims may be asserted in Chapter 15 Cases of which the Company is presently unaware and for which the Company may ultimately be liable. There can be no assurances that we will have sufficient excess liquidity upon the implementation of the CCAA Plan to satisfy obligations owing under our debtor-in-possession credit agreement, dated as of February 7, 2011, among Angiotech, certain of its subsidiaries, the lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo, as arranger and administrative agent (the “DIP Facility”). Even if the Recapitalization Transaction is successful, we will continue to face risks. The Recapitalization Transaction is generally designed to reduce the amount of our indebtedness and cash interest expense and improve our liquidity as well as our financial and operational flexibility in order to generate long-term growth. Even if the Recapitalization Transaction is consummated, we will continue to face a number of risks, including certain risks that are beyond our control, such as changes in economic conditions, changes in our industry, regulatory changes and changes in consumer demand for our products. As a result of these risks and others, there is no guarantee that the Recapitalization Transaction will achieve our stated goals (see “—Risks Related to Our Business”). Change-of-control, consent or notice provisions in agreements may be triggered upon the effectiveness of the CCAA Plan. We may be a party to agreements that contain change-of-control, consent or notice provisions that may be triggered following the issuance of the new common shares pursuant to the CCAA Plan. Such provisions may also be triggered in connection with the Chapter 15 Cases. These change-of-control, consent or notice provisions, if triggered and not waived by any beneficiaries of those provisions, could result in termination of an agreement or in unanticipated expenses following the Recapitalization Transaction and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Recapitalization Transaction may not improve the financial condition of our business. Management believes that the consummation of the Recapitalization Transaction will enhance the Company’s liquidity and provide it with improved operating flexibility. However, such belief is based on certain assumptions, including, without limitation, that the Company’s consolidated sales and relationships with suppliers, customers and competitors will not be materially adversely affected while the Recapitalization Transaction is underway and that they will be stable or will improve following the completion of the Recapitalization Transaction , that general economic conditions and the markets for the Company’s products or for the products of its partners will remain stable or improve, as well as the Company’s continued ability to manage costs. Should any of those assumptions prove false, the financial position of the Company may be materially adversely affected and the Company may not be able to pay its debts as they become due. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our business activities involve various elements of risk. The risks described below and incorporated herein by reference are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. We consider the following issues to be the most critical risks to the success of our business: The Company has historically been unprofitable and may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. We began operations in 1992 and have incurred a loss from operations in a majority of the years in which we have been operating. Our ability to become profitable and maintain profitability will depend on, among other things, our ability to expediently complete the Recapitalization Transaction and thereby implement our proposed restructuring and reduce our outstanding indebtedness; our ability to maintain and improve sales of our existing product lines; our ability to successfully market and sell certain new products and technologies; the amount of royalty revenue we receive from our corporate partners; our ability to research, develop and successfully launch new products and technologies; our ability to improve our profit margins through lower manufacturing costs and efficiencies or improved product sales mix; and our ability to effectively control our various operating costs. Our working capital and funding needs may vary significantly depending upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, our levels of sales and gross profit; costs associated with our manufacturing operations, including capital expenditures, labor and raw materials costs, and our ability to realize manufacturing efficiencies from our various operations; fluctuations in certain working capital items, including inventory and accounts receivable, that may be necessary to support the growth of our business or new product introductions; the level of royalty revenue we receive from corporate partners; progress of our research and development programs and costs associated with completing clinical studies and the regulatory process; collaborative and license arrangements with third parties; the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; expenses associated with litigation; opportunities to in-license complementary technologies or potential acquisitions; potential milestone or other payments we may make to licensors or corporate partners; and technological and market developments that impact our royalty revenue, sales levels or competitive position in the marketplace. The significant decline in royalty payments we receive from BSC, the large amount of our outstanding indebtedness and the related cash interest payments due on such indebtedness, as well as the working capital, capital and other expenditures required to develop the medical products segment of our business, among other factors, have adversely affected our operations and liquidity. Under the terms of the Existing Credit Agreement and our proposed new credit facility to be implemented in connection with the implementation of the Recapitalization Transaction (the “Exit Facility”), will replace our Existing Credit Facility, financing may not be available when it is needed, and financing in addition to such agreements may not be available, if at all, on attractive or acceptable terms due to credit market conditions and other factors. We have been pursuing options to improve our capital structure and address our potential working capital needs, including the Recapitalization Transaction. If we do not expediently consummate the Recapitalization Transaction, due to numerous factors that may impact our future cash position, working capital and liquidity, as discussed below, and given the significant cash that will be necessary to continue to service our current level of debt obligations, there can be no assurances that we will have adequate liquidity and capital resources to satisfy our financial obligations beyond Q2 2011. If we do not consummate the Recapitalization Transaction and our cash flows are worse than expected, we may require additional funds in order to fulfill the funding requirements of our commercial operations for our research and development programs, to satisfy certain contractual obligations, to meet other operating and capital requirements, to make milestone or other payment obligations we may owe to licensors or corporate partners, to repay or refinance our indebtedness or for potential acquisitions or in-licensing of technologies. 24 Table of Contents Our success depends on the successful commercialization of our existing products and new product candidates. The continued and successful commercialization of our medical products and technology is crucial for our success. Successful product commercialization and product development in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries are highly uncertain, and very few product commercialization initiatives or research and development projects produce a significant or successful commercial product. Our products and product candidates are in various stages of commercial and clinical development and face a variety of risks and uncertainties. Principally, these risks and uncertainties include the following: • Commercialization risk. Even if our products or product candidates are successfully developed, receive all necessary regulatory approvals and are commercially produced, there is no guarantee that there will be market acceptance of them or that they will generate or sustain any significant revenues. Our ability to achieve sustainable market acceptance for any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including whether competitors develop technologies which are superior to, or less costly than, our products or product candidates, whether our products or product candidates lead to or directly cause unwanted side effects, and whether government and private third-party payers provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or product candidates. • Clinical development risk. Future clinical trial results may show that some or all of our technology, or the technology of our strategic collaborators that incorporates our technology, is not safe or effective or is not as safe or effective as similar technologies produced by our competitors. • Manufacturing and scale-up risk. We and our strategic collaborators may face significant or unforeseen difficulties in manufacturing our products or the products that use certain aspects of our technology. These difficulties may become apparent when we or our strategic collaborators manufacture the medical devices or surgical implants on a small scale for clinical trials and regulatory approval or may only become apparent when scaling up the manufacturing to commercial scale. • Liquidity and working capital risk. We may not have the working capital and financial resources necessary to effectively market or distribute our products to customers or potential customers. Our available working capital to market and distribute our products and product candidates is in part dependent on our ability to expediently complete the Recapitalization Transaction and thereby implement our proposed restructuring and reduce our outstanding indebtedness. The Recapitalization Transaction and related proceedings may also increase uncertainty about our ability to market and distribute our products or product candidates, thereby impacting our ability to sustain or increase our revenues. If we are unsuccessful in dealing with any of these risks, or if we are unable to successfully commercialize our technology for some other reason, it would likely seriously harm our ability to sustain or to generate additional revenue. We may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and distributing certain of our products. We distribute a number of our products worldwide. In order to achieve commercial success for our approved products, we have established sales and marketing resources in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world. If our distribution personnel or methods are not sufficient to achieve market acceptance of our products, to maintain our current customer relationships or to ensure we have supply to meet demand for our products, it could harm our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenues received will be dependent on the efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Failure to develop an adequate sales and marketing operation or to enter into appropriate arrangements with other companies to market and sell our products will reduce our ability to sustain or generate revenues. 25 Table of Contents Many of the products we are depending on to grow our business are not yet ready for sale or have only recently been introduced for sale. Many of the products we are depending on to produce future growth are not yet ready for sale, or have only recently been introduced for sale. Introduction of a new product to the marketplace requires significant financial expenditures that we may not be able to fund. If any of our products are not approved for sale or do not achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate new revenues will be adversely affected. If our products are alleged to be harmful, we may not be able to sell them, we may be subject to product liability claims not covered by insurance and our reputation could be damaged. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. Using our medical device or drug product candidates in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims. These risks will expand with respect to medical devices or drugs, if any, that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. In addition, some of the products we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time. Even if a medical device or drug were approved for commercial use by an appropriate governmental agency, there can be no assurance that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may have resulted from our products. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, quality system failures, design defects, inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information or other safety issues with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. In addition, although many of our products are subject to review and approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) or other regulatory agencies, under the current state of the law, any approval of our products by such agencies will not prohibit product liability lawsuits from being brought against us in the event that our products are alleged to be defective, even if such products have been used for their approved indications and appropriate labels have been included. In the event that anyone alleges that any of our products are harmful, we may experience reduced consumer demand for our products or our products may be recalled from the market. In addition, we may be forced to defend individual or class action lawsuits and, if unsuccessful, to pay a substantial amount in damages. A recall of some of our products could result in exposure to additional product liability claims, lost sales and significant expense to perform the recall. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential loss relating to these types of lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, the cost to defend against any future litigation may be significant. We do not have insurance covering our costs and losses as a result of any recall of products or devices incorporating our technologies, whether such recall is instituted by a device manufacturer or us as required by a regulatory agency. Insurance to cover costs and losses associated with product recalls is expensive. If we seek insurance covering product recalls in the future, it may not be available on acceptable terms. Even if obtained, insurance may not fully protect us against potential liability or cover our losses. Some manufacturers that suffered such claims in the past have been forced to cease operations or declare bankruptcy. We do have insurance covering product liability. However, our insurance may not fully protect us from potential product liability claims. If a product liability claim or a series of claims is brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. Some manufacturers that suffered such claims in the past have been forced to cease operations or declare bankruptcy. Our royalty revenues we receive from BSC have declined significantly, and may continue to decline, thereby negatively impacting our cash flows and liquidity. We do not have control over the sales and marketing efforts, stent pricing, production volumes, distribution or regulatory environment related to BSC’s paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent program. Our involvement is limited to the terms of our 1997 License Agreement (as amended) with BSC and Cook (the “1977 License Agreement”), which provides for the receipt of royalty revenue based on the net sales of TAXUS®. Royalty revenue from BSC has declined significantly, as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 26 Table of Contents BSC has attributed this significant decline in royalties primarily to competition in the drug-eluting stent market, price pressure in the drug-eluting stent market and a decline in the overall number of drug-eluting stent procedures. Our royalties may decline further due to these and other factors in the future. In addition, if BSC is impaired in its ability to market and distribute TAXUS®, whether for these reasons or due to a failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, discovery of a defect in the device, increased incidence of adverse events or identification of other safety issues, or previously unknown problems with the manufacturing operations for TAXUS® (any of which could, under certain circumstances, result in a manufacturing injunction), our revenues could be further reduced. BSC’s failure to resolve these issues in a timely manner and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, or the occurrence of similar problems in the future, could delay the launch of additional TAXUS® product lines in the United States and could have a significant impact on our royalty revenue from sales of TAXUS®. Additionally, BSC may terminate our 1997 License Agreement under certain circumstances, including if BSC is unable to acquire a supply of paclitaxel at a commercially reasonable price; if BSC reasonably determines that the paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent is no longer commercially viable; or if our exclusive license agreement with the Public Health Service of the U.S. through the National Institutes of Health (the “NIH”), whereby the NIH granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license to certain technologies of the NIH for the use of paclitaxel (the “the NIH License Agreement”), certain rights under which are sublicensed to BSC, terminates. The amounts payable by BSC to us vary from 1% to 9% of net sales depending on various factors, including the volume of sales in each quarterly period and patent protection laws in the country of sale. From these amounts, we must pay certain royalties to our licensors, including the University of British Columbia (“UBC”), under license agreements. The royalty rates paid by BSC to us are described in our 2009 MD&A. There is no guarantee that royalty payments under our 1997 License Agreement will continue, and demand for BSC’s paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent products could continue to decline as a result of the factors stated above, as well as technological change, changes in reimbursement rates or other factors. Also, the royalty rate payable by BSC could decline if and when patent protection expires, or no longer exists (as defined by our 1997 License Agreement) in certain jurisdictions. Our royalty revenue derived from the sale of paclitaxel-eluting coronary stents depends on BSC’s ability to continue to sell its various TAXUS® paclitaxel-eluting stent products and to launch next generation paclitaxel-eluting stents in the United States and in other countries. Historically, stent manufacture and sale have been subject to a substantial amount of patent litigation, and BSC and others may become involved in material legal proceedings related to paclitaxel-eluting stents that could impact BSC’s ability to sell TAXUS®, thereby negatively impacting our royalty revenue derived from the sale of paclitaxel-eluting coronary stents. We face and will continue to face significant competition. Competition from pharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, biotechnology companies and academic and research institutions is significant. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities, experience conducting clinical trials and financial, scientific, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources and experience than our company. We also face competition from non-medical device companies, such as pharmaceutical companies, which may offer non-surgical alternative therapies for disease states that are currently treated or are intended to be treated using our products. Other companies may: • develop and obtain patent protection for products earlier than we do; • design around patented technology developed by us; • obtain regulatory approvals for such products more rapidly; 27 Table of Contents • have greater manufacturing capabilities and other resources; • have larger or more experienced sales forces; • develop more effective or less expensive products; or • have greater success in obtaining adequate third-party payer coverage and reimbursement for their competing products. While we intend to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, there is a risk that: • research and development by others will render our technology or product candidates obsolete or non-competitive; • treatments or cures developed by others will be superior to any therapy developed by us; and • any therapy developed by us will not be preferred to any existing or newly developed technologies. If physicians do not recommend and endorse our products or products that use our technology, or if our working relationships with physicians deteriorate, our products or products that use our technology may not be accepted in the marketplace, which could adversely affect our sales and royalty revenues. In order for us to sell our products or continue to receive royalty revenues from the sale of products that use our technologies, physicians must recommend and endorse them. We believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians are and will be essential for market acceptance of our products, and we do not know whether we will obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from physicians. Acceptance of our products or of products that use our technology depends on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of these products compared to products of competitors, and on training physicians in the proper application of these products. If we are not successful in obtaining the recommendations or endorsements of physicians for our products, or our collaborators are not successful in doing the same for their products that use our technology, our sales and royalty revenues may not increase or may decline. In addition, if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of professionals who use and support our products. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products are dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals while continuing to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could adversely affect the acceptance of our products in the marketplace and our sales. The commercial potential of our products and product candidates will be significantly limited if we are not able to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement for them. Our ability to commercialize our medical products and product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers or otherwise supported by the market for these products. There can be no assurance that third-party payers’ coverage and reimbursement will be available or sufficient for the products we might develop. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services and instituting cost-containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. These cost containment measures, if instituted in a manner affecting the coverage of or payment for our products, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. In some countries in the E.U. and in the United States, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and we do not know whether adequate third-party coverage and 28 Table of Contents reimbursement will be available for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development, which could seriously harm our business. In the United States, while reimbursement amounts previously approved appear to have provided a reasonable rate of return, there can be no assurance that our products will continue to be reimbursed at current rates or that third-party payers will continue to consider our products cost-effective and provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. We cannot be certain that our products will gain commercial acceptance among physicians, patients and third-party payers, even if necessary international and United States marketing approvals are maintained. We believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians will be essential for market acceptance of our products, and we do not know whether these recommendations or endorsements will be obtained. We also believe that surgeons will not use these products unless they determine, based on clinical data and other factors, that the clinical benefits to patients and cost savings achieved through use of these products outweigh their cost. Acceptance among physicians may also depend upon the ability to train surgeons and other potential users of our products and the willingness of such users to learn these relatively new techniques. If we are unable to license new technologies, or our existing license agreements are terminated, our ability to maintain our competitive advantage in our existing products and to develop future products may be adversely affected. We have entered into, and we expect that we will continue to enter into, licensing agreements with third parties to give us access to technologies that we may use to develop products, or that we may use to gain access to new products for us to further develop, market and sell through our commercial sales organizations. The technologies governed by these license agreements may be critical to our ability to maintain our competitive advantage in our existing products and to develop future products. For example, through licenses with the NIH and UBC, we have been granted access to technologies that have contributed to the developments of the TAXUS® paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent. Pursuant to terms of our existing license agreements, licensors have the right under certain specified circumstances to terminate their respective licenses. Events that may allow licensors to exercise these termination provisions include: • sub-licensing without the licensor’s consent; • a transaction which results in a change of control of us; • our failure to use the required level of diligence to develop, market and sell products based on the licensed technology; • our failure to maintain adequate levels of insurance with respect to the licensed technologies; • our bankruptcy; or • other acts or omissions that may constitute a breach by us of our license agreement. In addition, any failure to continue to have access to these technologies may materially adversely affect the benefits that we currently derive from our collaboration and partnership arrangements and may adversely affect our results and operations. We may depend on certain strategic collaborators for the development, regulatory approval, testing, manufacturing and potential commercialization of our products. Historically, our strategy has been to enter into various arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical testing, regulatory approval, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of our product candidates. For instance, we collaborate with BSC and Cook to develop and market paclitaxel-eluting coronary and peripheral stents. Strategic collaborators, both existing (particularly BSC) and those that we may collaborate with in the future, are or may be essential to the development of our technology and potential revenue and we have little control over or access to information regarding our collaborators’ activities with respect to our products. 29 Table of Contents Our strategic collaborators may fail to successfully develop or commercialize our technology to which they have rights for a number of reasons, including: • failure of a strategic collaborator to continue, or delays in, its funding, research, development and commercialization activities; • the pursuit or development by a strategic collaborator of alternative technologies, either on its own or with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by our programs; • the preclusion of a strategic collaborator from developing or commercializing any product, through, for example, litigation or other legal action; and • the failure of a strategic collaborator to make required milestone payments, meet contractual milestone obligations or exercise options which may result in our terminating applicable licensing arrangements. If our process related to product development does not result in an approved and commercially successful product, our business could be adversely affected. We focus our research and development activities on areas in which we have particular strengths. The outcome of any development program is highly uncertain, notwithstanding how promising a particular program may seem. Success in pre-clinical and early-stage clinical trials may not necessarily translate into success in large-scale clinical trials. Further, clinical trials are expensive and require increased investment, which will adversely affect our short-term profitability. In addition, we will need to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in order to market new products. Notwithstanding the outcome of clinical trials for new products, regulatory approval may not be achieved. The results of clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent approval or result in the need for post-marketing studies. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and review by regulators of a new application may cause delays or rejection. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may include limitations on the indications for which we can market the product. There is no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the applicable regulatory requirements, and we may suffer a significant variation from planned revenue as a result. Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, or at all, and our planned and ongoing clinical trials may not be completed on schedule, or at all. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • the data and safety monitoring committee of a clinical trial recommends that a trial be placed on hold or suspended; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients are not followed up at the rate we expect; • patients experience adverse side effects or events related to our products; 30 Table of Contents • patients die or suffer adverse medical effects during a clinical trial for a variety of reasons, including the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems, which may or may not be related to our product candidates; • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements; • the failure of our manufacturing process to produce finished products which conform to design and performance specifications; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or negative; • pre-clinical or clinical data is interpreted by third parties in different ways; • our clinical trial expenditures are constrained by our budgetary considerations; • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and/or efficacy; or • our financial resources are not sufficient to commence or complete a trial. Clinical trials may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient follow-up in clinical trials depend on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous trials of competitive products. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may cause an increase in costs and delays or may result in the failure of the trial. Our clinical trial costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat a trial, terminate a trial or cancel an entire program. Pre-clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our ongoing pre-clinical development programs. We may determine that certain of our pre-clinical product candidates or research programs do not have sufficient potential to warrant the allocation of resources. In addition, we may not have or be able to obtain adequate funding to sustain the development of any or all of our pre-clinical product candidates or research programs. Accordingly, we may elect to terminate programs for such product candidates or programs. If we terminate a pre-clinical product candidate or program in which we have invested significant resources, our prospects may suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. For example, as part of our cost reduction measures we have terminated several of our pre-clinical development programs. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or obtain necessary intellectual property rights from third parties, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on ensuring that our intellectual property rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or effectively maintained as trade secrets and on our ability to detect violations of our intellectual property rights and enforce such rights against others. 31 Table of Contents The validity of our patent claims depends, in part, on whether pre-existing public information described or rendered obvious our inventions as of the filing date of our patent applications. We may not have identified all prior art, such as U.S. and foreign patents, published applications or published scientific literature that could adversely affect the validity of our issued patents or the patentability of our pending patent applications. For example, patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) for the entire time prior to their issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the U.S. are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications related to, our technology. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the U.S. It is possible that we may be unsuccessful in the interference, resulting in a loss of some portion or all of our U.S. patent positions. The laws in some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We frequently seek patents to protect our intellectual property. It should be recognized that we may not be able to obtain patent protection for key elements of our technology, as the patent positions of medical device, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal issues are largely unresolved. For example, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the scope of health-related patent claims that are granted by the USPTO or enforced by the U.S. federal courts. Rights under any of our issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection for our products or afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, even if a patent is issued, the coverage claimed in a patent application may be significantly reduced in the patent as granted. There can be no assurance that: • patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; • additional proprietary products developed will be patentable; • licenses we have obtained from third parties that we use in connection with our technology will not be terminated; • patents issued will provide adequate protection or any competitive advantages; • patents will not be successfully challenged by any third parties; or • the patents of others will not impede our or our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our technology. For example, the drug paclitaxel is itself not covered by composition of matter patents. Therefore, although we have developed and are developing an intellectual property portfolio around the use of paclitaxel for intended commercial applications, others may be able to engage in off-label use of paclitaxel for the same indications, causing us to lose potential revenue. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or technologies or, if patents are issued to us, design around any patented technology developed by us, which could affect our potential to generate revenues and harm our results of operations. Patent protection for our technology may not be available based on prior art. The publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. As a consequence, there may be uncertainty as to whether we or a third party were the first creator of inventions covered by issued patents or pending patent applications or that we or a third party were the first to file patent applications for 32 Table of Contents such inventions. Moreover, we might have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO, or other proceedings outside the U.S., including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability, which could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome were favorable. An unfavorable outcome in an interference or opposition proceeding could preclude us, our collaborators and our licensees from making, using or selling products using the technology or require us to obtain license rights from prevailing third parties. We do not know whether any prevailing party would offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may also be forced to pay damages or royalties for our past use of such intellectual property rights, as well as royalties for any continued usage. As part of our patent strategy, we have filed a variety of patent applications internationally. Oppositions have been filed against various granted patents that we either own or license and which are related to certain of our technologies. For a summary of certain of our material current legal proceedings, including those relating to our patents and intellectual property, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain certain proprietary intellectual property rights used in our approved products and principal product candidates. Any such success depends in part on effectively instituting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by effectively defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by our competitors and others. The stent-related markets have experienced rapid technological change and obsolescence in the recent past, and our competitors have strong incentives to attempt to stop or delay us from introducing new products and technologies. See “—We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights.” We do not know whether the patents that we have obtained or licensed, or may be able to obtain or license in the future, would be held valid or enforceable by a court or whether a competitor’s technology or product would be found to infringe such patents. Further, we have no assurance that third parties will not properly or improperly modify or terminate any license they have granted to us. We have obtained licenses from third parties with respect to their intellectual property that we use in connection with certain aspects of our technology or products. However, we may need to obtain additional licenses for the development of our current or future products. Licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If available, these licenses may obligate us to exercise diligence in bringing our technology to market and may obligate us to make minimum guarantee or milestone payments. This diligence and these milestone payments may be costly and could adversely affect our business. We may also be obligated to make royalty payments on the sales, if any, of products resulting from licensed technology and may be responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. These costs could affect our results of operations and decrease our earnings. Certain of our key technologies include trade secrets and know-how that may not be protected by patents. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our trade secrets. To help protect our rights, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that all employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators have signed such agreements, or that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. If certain single-source suppliers fail to deliver key product components in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on certain single-source suppliers that supply components used in the manufacture of certain of our products. If we need alternative sources for key component parts for any reason, these component parts may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production of these components may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period or 33 Table of Contents on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Shipments of affected products have been limited or delayed as a result of such problems in the past, and similar problems could occur in the future. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships or force us to curtail or cease operations. Compulsory licensing and/or generic competition may affect our business in certain countries. In a number of countries, governmental authorities have the right to grant licenses to others to use a pharmaceutical or medical device company’s patents or other intellectual property without the consent of the owner of the patent or other intellectual property. Governmental authorities could use this right to grant licenses under our patents or other intellectual property to others or could require us to grant licenses under our patents or other intellectual property to others, thereby allowing our competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products. In other circumstances, governmental authorities could use this right to require us or our licensees to reduce the prices of our products. In all of these situations, our sales or the sales of our licensee(s), and the results of our operations, in these countries could be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation that could strain our resources and distract management. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits and other disputes. These suits may concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, employee-related matters, intellectual property and personal injury matters. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, and the ultimate resolution of these matters as well as future lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or reputation. For a summary of certain of our material current legal proceedings, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. In connection with maintaining the value of our various intellectual property and exclusivity rights, we regularly evaluate the activities of others worldwide. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, or licenses to patents, maintain trade secret protection and enforce our rights against others. Should it become necessary to protect those rights, we intend to pursue all cost-efficient strategies, including, when appropriate, negotiation or litigation in any relevant jurisdiction. For a summary of certain of our current legal proceedings, including proceedings in respect of patent infringement and intellectual property matters, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings” under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We intend to pursue and to defend vigorously any and all actions of third parties related to our material patents and technology. Any failure to obtain and protect intellectual property could adversely affect our business and our ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affecting the development of product candidates or sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources, and intellectual property litigation may be used against us as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could affect our ability to continue our operations. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay substantial damages or back royalties; 34 Table of Contents • cease the development, manufacture, use or sale of product candidates or products that infringe upon the intellectual property of others; • expend significant resources to design around a patent or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; • discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring non-infringing intellectual property or that necessary licenses will be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we cannot develop or acquire such intellectual property or obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in any introduction of products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be prohibited. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the USPTO, or other proceedings outside the United States, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability, which could result in substantial cost to us even if the eventual outcome were favorable. Our ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies as well as research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with or adversely affect our technologies or intellectual property rights, including those that we license from others. We are aware of other parties holding intellectual property rights that may represent prior art or other potentially conflicting intellectual property. Any conflicts with the intellectual property of others could limit the scope of the patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain or result in the denial of our current or future patent applications altogether. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other persons or companies, we could be charged with infringement. In the event that other parties’ patents cover any portion of our activities, we may be forced to develop alternatives or negotiate a license for such technology. We do not know whether we would be successful in either developing alternative technologies or acquiring licenses upon reasonable terms, if at all. Obtaining any such licenses could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could harm our business and decrease our earnings. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in the introduction of our products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is prohibited. Technological advances and evolving industry standards could reduce our future product sales, which could cause our revenues to grow more slowly or decline. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our products. This could happen, for example, if new standards and technologies emerged that were incompatible with customer deployments of our applications. In addition, any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete or uneconomical before we recover any of the expenses incurred in connection with their development. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change, new industry standards, changed customer requirements or competitive products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Additionally, even if we are able to develop new products and product enhancements, we cannot assure you that they will achieve market acceptance. 35 Table of Contents Future legislation or regulatory changes to, or consolidation in, the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system, and some could involve changes that could significantly affect our business. For example, the recent health care reform bill signed into law in the United States includes a 2.3% excise tax on a wide range of medical devices. Efforts by governmental and third-party payers to reduce health care costs or the announcement of legislative proposals or reforms to implement government controls could cause a reduction in sales or in the selling price of our products, which would seriously harm our business. Additionally, initiatives to reduce the cost of health care have resulted in a consolidation trend in the health care industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from certain market segments as consolidated groups such as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, and third-party reimbursement policies will continue to change the worldwide health care industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no such claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which could severely harm our business. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. Our research and development processes and manufacturing operations involve the use of hazardous materials. In the countries in which we operate or sell our products, we are subject to federal, state, provincial, local and other laws and regulations that govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident or the discovery of pre-existing contamination at one or more of our facilities, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. In addition, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to new or increased legislation or regulation as a result of climate control initiatives. We may not be specifically insured with respect to these liabilities, and we do not know whether we will be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, or whether our operations, business or assets will be harmed by current or future environmental laws or regulations. We must receive regulatory approval for each of our product candidates before they can be sold commercially in Canada, the United States or internationally, which can take significant time and be very costly. The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and human therapeutic products in Canada, the United States and internationally is governed by a variety of statutes and regulations. These laws require, among other things: • regulatory approval of manufacturing facilities and practices; • adequate and well-controlled research and testing of products in pre-clinical and clinical trials; 36 Table of Contents • review and approval of submissions containing manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical data in order to obtain marketing approval based on establishing the safety and efficacy of the product for each use sought, including adherence to current cGMPs during production and storage; and • control of marketing activities, including advertising and labeling. The product candidates currently under development by us or our collaborators will require significant research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, pre-market review and approval, and investment of significant funds prior to their commercialization. In many instances, we are dependent on our collaborators for regulatory approval and compliance, and have little or no control over these matters. The process of completing clinical testing and obtaining such approvals is likely to take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and we do not know whether any clinical studies by us or our collaborators will be successful, whether regulatory approvals will be received, or whether regulatory approvals will be obtained in a timely manner. Despite the time and resources expended by us, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, regulatory agencies may limit the approval to certain diseases, conditions or categories of patients who can use them. If any of our development programs are not successfully completed in a timely fashion, required regulatory approvals are not obtained in a timely fashion, or products for which approvals are obtained are not commercially successful, it could seriously harm our business. Our products and manufacturing facilities that have, or may receive, regulatory approval, are or will be subject to ongoing regulation. In addition, we have little or no control over the manufacturing facilities of our collaborators in which certain of our products are manufactured. Our products and manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and by similar regulatory agencies abroad. Ongoing regulation includes compliance with an array of manufacturing and design controls and testing, quality control, storage and documentation procedures. Regulatory agencies may also require expensive post-approval studies. Any adverse events associated with our products must also be reported to regulatory authorities. If deficiencies in our or our collaborators’ manufacturing and laboratory facilities are discovered, or we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable post-market regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may close the facility or suspend manufacturing. With respect to products manufactured by third-party contractors, we are, and we expect to continue to be, dependent on our collaborators for continuing regulatory compliance, and we may have little or no control over these matters. Our ability to control third-party compliance with the FDA and other regulatory requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. Our failure or the failure of third-party manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to our products may result in legal or regulatory action by those regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that our or our collaborators’ manufacturing processes will satisfy regulatory, cGMPs or International Standards Organization requirements. In addition, there may be uncertainty as to whether or not we or others who are involved in the manufacturing process will be able to make the transition to commercial production of some of our newly developed products. A failure to achieve regulatory approval for manufacturing facilities or a failure to make the transition to commercial production for our products will adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to fully comply with federal and state “fraud and abuse laws”, we could face substantial penalties, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, physician self-referral laws, the U.S. False Claims Act, the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the U.S. False Statements Statute, and state law equivalents to these U.S. federal laws, which may not be limited to government-reimbursed items and may not contain identical exceptions. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal 37 Table of Contents and state health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of operations. Any action against us for violation of these laws could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any action against us for violation by us or our agents or distributors of this act could have a significant impact on our business. Acquisition of companies or technologies may result in disruptions to our business. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire additional assets and businesses principally relating to or complementary to our current operations. Any acquisitions or mergers by us will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. These risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. In addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. If significant acquisitions are made for cash consideration, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Future acquisitions by us may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. Acquisition financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to hire and retain key management, scientific and technical personnel, we may be unable to successfully implement our business plan. We are highly dependent on our senior management and scientific and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the health care field is intense, and we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified managerial, scientific and technical personnel. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require continued implementation and improvement of our management systems and the ability to recruit and train new employees. We may not be able to successfully attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel, which could harm our ability to develop our product candidates and generate revenues. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness, Organization and Financial Position There is significant doubt regarding our ability to remain a going concern. There are material uncertainties regarding our ability to continue as a going concern, and such ability will depend upon our ability to: (i) complete the Recapitalization Transaction, (ii) restructure, refinance or amend the terms of our other existing debt obligations including the Existing Floating Rate Notes; (iii) remain in compliance with our debt covenants and maintain access to our Existing Credit Facility and the DIP Facility; (iv) obtain additional equity and debt financing (including the Exit Facility); (v) achieve revenue growth and improvement of gross margins; and (vi) achieve greater operating efficiencies or a reduction of expenses. We reported net losses for our fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010. Our cumulative losses, high level of outstanding indebtedness and inability to comply with related debt covenants, in addition to our current liquidity situation, lead to uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern for a period longer than twelve months from December 31, 2010. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on, among other factors, a return to profitable operations and a successful restructuring of our obligations related to the Subordinated Notes and Existing Floating Rate Notes. Until the completion of the Recapitalization Transaction, our future remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that our efforts in this regard will be successful. 38 Table of Contents As a result of filing for creditor protection, our business and operations will be subject to certain risks. The CCAA Proceedings (together with the Chapter 15 Cases, as applicable) by Angiotech and certain of our subsidiaries have subjected our business and operations to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: • The CCAA and/or U.S. ancillary filings may adversely affect our business prospects and our ability to operate during the restructuring process; • The coordination of a CCAA and/or U.S. ancillary filing and operating under the protection of an insolvency proceeding involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors; • We may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable rates with competitive terms; • We may have difficulty maintaining existing and building new customer and supplier relationships; • Transactions outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the courts, which may limit our ability to respond to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities in a timely manner; • We may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the restructuring proceedings; • We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and associates through the process of restructuring, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; • There can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any restructuring plan and meet future obligations; and • There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of compromise or arrangement that are acceptable to the court and our creditors and other parties in interest. We may not be able to service our debt or obtain future financing and we may be limited operationally. We may incur additional debt from time to time to finance our operations, capital expenditures or for other purposes if we comply with the restrictions in the indenture governing the New Floating Rate Notes (the “New Notes Indenture”) and those anticipated to be included in our proposed Exit Facility. The debt that we carry may have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or additional financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we may be required to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay the interest or principal on our debt. These payments reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; • a substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to further modify our operations; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. 39 Table of Contents If we cannot service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We can give no assurance that we can do any of these things on satisfactory terms or at all. We have effected reductions in our operating costs and, as a result, our ability to cut costs further and sustain our business initiatives may be limited. Beginning in late 2008 and continuing into 2009, 2010 and 2011, we have implemented various initiatives to reduce operating costs across all functions of the Company and focus our business efforts on our most promising near-term product opportunities. As a result of these cost-cutting initiatives, we may have a more limited ability to further reduce costs to increase our liquidity should such a measure become necessary. Any further reductions may have a materially negative impact on our business. Restrictive covenants in our existing and future credit agreements may adversely affect us. We must comply with operating and financing restrictions in our Existing Credit Facility, the DIP Facility, the indentures governing our notes and those anticipated to be included in our proposed Exit Facility. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make any distributions, declare or pay any dividends on or acquire any of our capital stock; • incur liens; • make investments, including joint venture investments; • sell assets; • repurchase certain debt; and • merge or consolidate with or into other companies or sell substantially all of our assets. We may also have similar restrictions with any future debt. We expect that our proposed Exit Facility will require us to make mandatory payments upon the occurrence of certain events, including the sale of assets, in each case subject to certain limitations and conditions. We also expect that our proposed Exit Facility will contain financial covenants, including maintaining certain levels of EBITDA and interest coverage ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise could restrict our activities. These restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Our obligation to pay cash interest on our notes has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our liquidity. We are obligated to make periodic cash interest payments on the Existing Floating Rate Notes and will be similarly obligated under the Subordinated Notes if we do not effect the Recapitalization Transaction. Upon consummation of the Recapitalization Transaction, the Subordinated Notes will no longer be outstanding and our only cash interest payments will be those under our Existing Floating Rate Notes, if any, and under the New Floating Rate Notes. As a result of these required cash interest payments, combined with the significant decline in royalty payments we receive from BSC, we have had significant liquidity issues. If our cash flows are worse than expected, we may be unable to access additional sources of liquidity to fund our cash needs, which could further adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. 40 Table of Contents The current global credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. The current significantly challenging global credit and financial market conditions may make obtaining additional financing for our business difficult or impossible, or may make it more difficult to pursue a restructuring or other transaction with respect to our existing indebtedness. In addition, the recent tightening of global credit may lead to a disruption in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including royalty revenue, portions of our product manufacturing, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials and raw materials. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. Certain of our products are used in elective medical procedures which are not covered by insurance. Adverse changes in the economy or other conditions or events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on consumer spending and may reduce the demand for these procedures. Any such changes, conditions or events could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are permitted to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. The respective terms of the indenture governing the Existing Floating Rate Notes (the “FRN Indenture”), the New Notes Indenture and our proposed Exit Facility expressly permit, or are anticipated to permit, as applicable, the incurrence of additional amounts of debt for specified purposes. Moreover, the FRN Indenture does not, and it is anticipated that the New Notes Indenture and our proposed Exit Facility will not, impose any limitation on our incurrence of liabilities that are not defined as “Indebtedness” under such indentures or facility (such as trade payables). If we are unable to expediently complete the Recapitalization Transaction or otherwise restructure our existing indebtedness, we may be forced to incur additional debt or other liabilities, exacerbating the related risks that we now face. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. As a medical device company with significant operations in Canada, the United States and other countries, we are subject to political, economic, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in conducting business globally. These risks include foreign exchange fluctuations, exchange controls, capital controls, new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, political instability, macroeconomic changes, including recessions and inflationary or deflationary pressures, increases in prevailing interest rates by central banks or financial services companies, economic uncertainty, which may reduce the demand for our products or reduce the prices that our customers are willing to pay for our products, import or export restrictions, tariff increases, price controls, nationalization and expropriation, changes in taxation, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, lack of access to impartial court systems, violations of law, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, disruption or destruction of operations or changes to the Company’s business position, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection, social unrest, strikes and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. The impact of any of these developments, either individually or cumulatively, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations. We report our operating results and financial position in U.S. dollars in order to more accurately represent the currency of the economic environment in which we operate. Our operations are in some instances conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause us to incur currency 41 Table of Contents exchange losses. In addition to the U.S. dollar, we currently conduct operations in Canadian dollars, Euros, Swiss francs, Danish kroner, Swedish kroner, Norwegian kroner and U.K. pounds sterling. Exchange rate fluctuations may reduce our future operating results and comprehensive income. For a description of the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our results, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. We have not entered into any forward currency contracts or other financial derivatives to hedge foreign exchange risk, and therefore we are subject to foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses. We purchase goods and services in U.S. and Canadian dollars, Euros, Swiss francs, Danish kroner, and U.K. pounds sterling, and earn a significant portion of our license and milestone revenues in U.S. dollars. We primarily manage our foreign exchange risk by satisfying foreign-denominated expenditures with cash flows or assets denominated in the same currency. We are not currently paying dividends on our common shares and have no current plans to do so in the future. We cannot pay dividends on our common shares as the Company is insolvent. We have no current plans to pay dividends in the future with respect to the new common shares to be issued upon implementation of the CCAA Plan. Further, the terms of the FRN Indenture and our Existing Credit Facility restrict our ability to do so, and we expect the Exit Facility and the New Notes Indenture to contain similar restrictions. Nasdaq and the TSX have recently delisted our common shares from quotation on their respective exchanges. The Nasdaq Stock Market (the “NASDAQ”) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”) have recently delisted our common shares from quotation on their exchanges, in each case for failure to continue to meet their respective continued listing requirements. The delisting of our common shares from NASDAQ and the TSX could have material adverse effects by, among other things: • reducing the liquidity and market price of our common shares; • reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common shares, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • reducing the amount of news and analyst coverage of the Company; and • reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees. United States investors may not be able to obtain enforcement of civil liabilities against us. We were formed under the laws of British Columbia, Canada. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of the members of our board of directors and our officers are residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under United States federal or state securities laws. In addition, judgments of U.S. courts will not necessarily be recognized by courts in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Accordingly, even if you obtain a favorable judgment in a U.S. court, you may be required to re-litigate your claim in other jurisdictions. In addition, in certain jurisdictions in which certain of our subsidiaries are organized, it is questionable whether a court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability if proceedings were commenced in an original action predicated only upon U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 42 Table of Contents 