Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results In addition to the other information contained in this 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following factors in evaluating OpenTV and our business. We have a history of net losses, and we may continue to experience net losses in the future. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately $5.2 million, $10.8 million and $8.5 million, respectively. We expect to continue incurring significant research and development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. It is, therefore, likely that we will continue to suffer net losses in the near term. We will need to generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain sustainable profitability. We cannot be certain that we will achieve, sustain or increase profitability in the future. Any failure to significantly increase revenue as we implement our product and distribution strategies would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We have historically derived a significant percentage of our revenues from licensing our middleware to network operators. Our opportunities for future revenue growth with middleware are limited by the actual number of worldwide network operators and by technology decisions they make from time to time. We have historically derived a significant percentage of our total revenues from royalties associated with the deployment of our middleware solutions and fees charged for services rendered in support of those deployments. Historically, the number of network operators worldwide has not grown significantly, and in fact, consolidation has resulted in fewer independent network operators in many countries. Over 45 network operators around the world have already deployed our middleware solutions. To the extent that we have already achieved deployments in those networks, the opportunities for future growth of our middleware solutions may be limited, typically by the subscriber growth of our customers and their schedule for upgrading the technology deployed in their networks. Although new markets are emerging from the conversion of analog to digital networks required in many countries and the growth of IPTV and digital terrestrial television networks, we may not be successful in marketing and selling our middleware to these new markets, in which case our revenue growth and results of operations will be negatively impacted. Our capacity to generate future revenues associated with our middleware may also be limited due to a number of reasons, including: • network operators that have selected our middleware may switch to another middleware platform for the provision of interactive services, reduce their pace of set-top box deployment or stop deploying set-top boxes enabled with our middleware, decrease or stop their use of our support services, or choose not to upgrade or add additional features to the version of our middleware running on their networks; • network operators that have not selected our middleware may choose another middleware platform for the provision of interactive services, which could include the selection of standards-based solutions such as the Multimedia Home Platform, or MHP, and tru2way, formerly known as the OpenCable Applications Platform, or OCAP; • third party distributors of our middleware solutions, such as set-top box manufacturers and conditional access vendors, may not be successful in marketing or selling our software as part of their bundled solutions or the prices at which they are able to sell their bundled solutions to network operators may experience downward pricing pressure, which in turn may impact the prices at which they are able to sell our middleware solutions; or • a meaningful opportunity to deploy our middleware in the markets that have not yet adopted interactive digital television on a large scale may never develop or may develop at a slower pace than expected. 12 Table of Contents Any of these eventualities would have an adverse effect on our future revenues and results of operations. We offer volume discounts to certain customers, which may, over time, depress our average pricing. While deployments of our software may continue to grow, those discounts, as they are triggered, may limit the rate of our royalty growth in the future. In certain instances, we provide volume discounts to customers based on the number of copies of our software that they deploy. As a result, although we may experience continued growth in middleware deployments, the average price for each copy licensed to certain customers may decline over time, which could limit the growth of our royalty payments in the future. We experienced this effect in 2005, as our royalties and licenses revenues from Sky Italia declined by $3.3 million compared to 2004 because of volume discounts. We have historically provided various types of volume discounts to our customers and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. Unless we are able to offset anticipated discounts through a change in product mix, upgrades to our software or other methods that typically enable us to charge higher fees, we may experience slower royalty growth as discounting is triggered. We expect a more significant portion of our revenue growth in the future to be derived from advertising solutions that we develop and market. If we are not successful in developing and marketing these advertising solutions, our future revenue growth may be limited. We expect to accelerate the development of our suite of advertising solutions, including a significant upgrade to our campaign management product and more advanced targeted and addressable advertising solutions. These efforts will involve significant investment and time and attention of management. Historically, we have derived a relatively small percentage of our total revenue from these offerings, and the market for these offerings, particularly for targeted and addressable advertising and participation-based offerings, is still nascent and evolving. We cannot be certain that the demand for, or the market acceptance of, our advertising solutions will develop as we anticipate or that we will be able to market those solutions effectively. If network operators determine that our advertising solutions do not meet their business or operational expectations, they may choose a competitive solution. To the extent that network operators fail to renew or enter into new or expanded contracts with us for our advertising solutions, our revenue growth will be impacted negatively. Moreover, due to global economic conditions, network operators may slow down their deployment of new technologies, and such actions would also negatively impact our revenue growth. Accordingly, our ability to generate significant revenues from our advertising solutions in the future is uncertain. Our future growth may be limited if we are unable to sell our middleware solutions to North American cable customers. In February 2008, we announced that we had jointly decided with Time Warner Cable, or TWC, to put our middleware project with TWC on indefinite hold. That project commenced in 2006 with the goal of providing a common user interface and interactive services platform based on OpenTV’s middleware across certain low-end set-top boxes deployed by TWC in the United States. This project represented OpenTV’s only currently active project to deploy our middleware solution with a North American cable operator. In addition, in April 2005, TVWorks LLC (formerly known as Double C Technologies), a joint venture formed by Cox Communications and Comcast Corporation, acquired substantially all of the assets of the North American business of Liberate Technologies, a former competitor of ours. Historically, our middleware competed with the middleware software included within the assets sold to TVWorks. To date, while we have licensed certain of our advertising solutions to Comcast, and expect to pursue additional advertising opportunities with both Cox and Comcast, we have not licensed our middleware solutions to either of these companies. It also remains unclear whether TVWorks will attempt to license the competing technology to other North American cable operators. Based on our current understanding of the circumstances, we would not expect Cox or Comcast, in light of the assets that they acquired from Liberate, to license middleware or related solutions from us. As a result of both this and the TWC development, our opportunity to license our middleware solutions in the United States to cable operators, and in 13 Table of Contents particular TWC, Comcast and Cox, may be materially diminished, and if so, our future revenue growth may be adversely affected. A significant percentage of our revenues is currently generated from network operators that are affiliated with News Corporation, which also controls NDS Group, one of our primary competitors in the middleware market. Over the long-term, this situation may make it more difficult for us to sell our products, technologies or services to these network operator affiliates, in which case our revenues may be negatively impacted. News Corporation currently controls NDS Group, which competes with us in the middleware market. News Corporation also controls, directly or indirectly, or exerts significant influence over, a number of our customers, including BSkyB, Sky Italia, FOXTEL and Sky Network Television. For the year ended December 31, 2007, BSkyB, Sky Italia, FOXTEL and Sky Network Television, directly and indirectly through their set-top box manufacturers, accounted for 27%, in the aggregate, of our revenues. While we believe that our relationship with each of these customers is good, the long-term implications of News Corporation owning a technology company that directly competes with us in the market for middleware is difficult to assess. We may be at a disadvantage in selling our middleware to News Corporation affiliates over the long-term when in direct competition with NDS Group, and if we were to lose one or more of these customers, our revenues would be negatively impacted. A significant percentage of our revenues is generated from a relatively small number of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers would severely and negatively impact our revenues. Although our middleware solutions have been deployed by more than 45 network operators worldwide, a small number of large network operators account for a disproportionately large percentage of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, network operators over which News Corporation controls or exerts significant influence, including BSkyB, Sky Italia, FOXTEL and Sky Network Television, accounted for approximately 27% of our revenues in the aggregate. Liberty Global, which controls or exerts significant influence over UGC, Austar and Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd. (JCOM), accounted for approximately 24% of our 2007 revenues in the aggregate. Finally, we generated approximately 8% of our revenues in 2007 from EchoStar. The loss of any of the foregoing individual network operators as customers would negatively impact our financial results and future prospects. In addition, if either News Corporation or Liberty Global decided to replace our middleware solution as part of a group-wide effort that encompassed all or a significant portion of their respective affiliated network operators, then the impact on our financial results and future prospects would be severe. We may be unable in the future to raise additional capital required to support our operating activities. We expect to be able to fund our capital requirements for at least the next twelve months by using existing cash balances and short-term and long-term marketable debt securities, if our assumptions about our revenues, expenses and cash commitments are generally accurate. Nevertheless, we have incurred to date and we expect that we will continue to incur in the near term significant expenses. As of February 15, 2008, we had over $96 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities. While we continue to monitor our operating expenses and seek to bring them in line with our revenues, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that we will be able to generate positive cash flow from operating activities in the future. If we are not successful in those endeavors, we might need to raise additional capital. To the extent we are required to raise additional capital, we may not be able to do so at all or we may be able to do so only on unacceptable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or future prospects. 14 Table of Contents The market for our products and services is subject to significant competition, which could adversely affect our business. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and better recognized brand names than we do. Current and potential competitors in one or more aspects of our business include interactive technology companies, companies developing interactive television content and entertainment, and, in the professional services area, third party system integrators and internal information technology staffs at our network operator customers. Some of our customers or their affiliates offer products or services that compete with our products and services. For example, as we noted above, TVWorks, a joint venture between Cox and Comcast, acquired the North American assets of Liberate Technologies, which included its middleware business. If any of our competitors achieves significant market penetration or other success within the markets upon which we rely as a significant source of revenue, or in new markets that we may enter in the future, our ability to maintain market share and sustain our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. The trend of consolidation among industry participants may adversely impact our business, results of operations and future prospects. There has been a worldwide trend of consolidation in the cable, direct broadcast satellite and telecommunications industries. We believe this trend is likely to continue due to economic and competitive concerns. This trend has also expanded to include other companies involved in the interactive television industry. For example, in December 2007, Macrovision announced that it had reached agreement to acquire Gemstar-TV Guide International, a provider of electronic program guide technology. In July 2007, Irdeto Access BV, a provider of conditional access systems, acquired IDway SAS, a software company providing open software solutions for digital television consumer devices. In February 2006, Cisco Systems, Inc. acquired Scientific-Atlanta, the set-top box manufacturer, and in March 2007, ARRIS Group, Inc. announced a deal to acquire Tandberg Television. We expect additional consolidation to occur throughout the industry. While the full impact of this trend is uncertain at the present time, we will need to adapt to changing relationships with industry participants and address concerns that may arise relating to competition and conflicts of interest as companies consolidate. If we are unable to successfully manage these changing relationships and address competitive and conflict issues, we may lose existing customers and fail to secure new customers. Unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could affect our stock price. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful indicators of our future operating results and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the market price of our publicly-traded securities could be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and they may vary substantially in the future depending upon a number of factors described below, including many that are beyond our control. Our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including: • Changes in the rate of capital spending and the rollout of interactive television-related products and services by network operators; • The number, size and scope of network operators deploying OpenTV-enabled interactive services and the associated rollout to subscribers; • Changes in our operating expenses necessary to meet business and customer requirements; • Increased competition in general and any changes in our pricing policies that may result from increased competitive pressures; 15 Table of Contents • Potential downturns in our customers’ businesses or in the domestic or international markets for our products and services; • Our ability to develop and market successfully our advertising solutions business; • Changes in technology, whether or not developed by us; • Our ability to develop and introduce on a timely basis new or enhanced versions of our products that can compete favorably in the marketplace; and • The timing of revenue recognition associated with major licensing and services agreements. Any of the factors listed above could cause significant variations in our earnings on a quarter-to-quarter basis. You should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Any decline in revenues or a greater than expected loss for any quarter could cause the market price of our publicly-traded securities to decline. Our shares may be at risk for delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market. If our shares are delisted, our share price and your liquidity may be impacted. Our Class A ordinary shares are currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. These requirements include maintaining a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. Our closing bid price on December 31, 2007 was $1.32 per share. Although we currently meet all of the minimum continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market, should our share price decline, our ordinary shares could be subject to potential delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to maintain the standards necessary to be quoted on NASDAQ and our shares are delisted, trading in our shares would be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board as long as we continue to file reports required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered to be a less efficient market than NASDAQ, and our share price, as well as the liquidity of our ordinary shares, may be adversely impacted as a result. We depend upon key personnel, including our senior executives and technical and engineering staff, to operate our business effectively, and we may be unable to attract or retain such personnel. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our senior executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. In 2007, we twice experienced a change in our Chief Executive Officer, and there were additional changes among our senior executives. We also implemented a significant reorganization of our worldwide business operations, which resulted in the implementation of a new reporting structure. Organizational change can disrupt our operations and require significant management time and attention, which can place us at a competitive disadvantage in the fast moving markets in which we operate. In addition, we may need to increase our technical, consulting and support staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of our existing customers. We have, in the past, experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. If we are not successful in those efforts, our business may be adversely affected. We continue to evaluate our business operations and may implement structural and other changes that affect the conduct of our worldwide business operations. As we continue to align our resources appropriately with our evolving business, we may face unintended consequences or suffer adverse effects on our operations or personnel. We review our operations on an ongoing basis with a view towards improving our business performance. As a result of these business reviews, we may undertake changes to operations and personnel. From time to time, we also may initiate efforts to consolidate our operations, close and relocate various offices around the world and 16 Table of Contents divest non-strategic assets, such as the sale of our PlayJam unit that closed in December 2007. There is a risk that, as new business strategies and administrative processes are developed and implemented, the changes we adopt will be unduly disruptive or less effective than our old strategies and processes. This may adversely affect our business, results of operations and future prospects. Interactive television remains an emerging business and it may not attract widespread market acceptance or demand. Our success will depend upon, among other things, the broad acceptance of interactive television by industry participants, including network operators and manufacturers of televisions and set-top boxes, as well as by television programmers, viewers and advertisers. Because the market for interactive television remains an emerging market, the potential size of the market opportunity and the timing of its development are uncertain. The growth and future success of our business will depend in part upon our ability to penetrate new markets and convince network operators, television programmers, viewers and advertisers to adopt and maintain their use of our products and services. Because much of our success and value lies in our ownership and use of our intellectual property, our failure to protect our intellectual property and develop new proprietary technology may negatively affect us. Our ability to effectively conduct our business will be dependent in part upon the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law, as well as confidentiality and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights in and to our technology. We have typically entered into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, strategic partners and vendors in an effort to control access to, and distribution of, our software, related documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our software and other proprietary information without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our software and proprietary information is difficult and expensive. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property and the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable in some instances. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries or, alternatively, such protection may be difficult to enforce. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our intellectual property rights and the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and diversion of resources, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted against us, which could disrupt our business. We may be the subject of claims by third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property. The defense of any such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could result in the diversion of resources with respect to the defense of any claims brought, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. As a result of such infringement claims, a court could issue an injunction preventing us from distributing certain products, which could adversely affect our business. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to avoid any litigation. However, a license under such circumstances may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 17 Table of Contents We grant certain indemnification rights to our customers when we license our software technologies. We may, therefore, become subject to third party infringement claims through those commercial arrangements. In addition, the damages to which we are subject may be increased by the use of our technologies in our customers’ products. Many of our and our subsidiaries’ agreements with customers contain an indemnification obligation, which could be triggered in the event that a customer is named in an infringement suit involving their products or involving the customer’s products or services that incorporate or use our products. If it is determined that our products infringe any of the asserted claims in such a suit, we may be prevented from distributing certain of our products and we may incur significant indemnification liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, while damages claims in respect of an alleged infringement may, in many cases, be based upon a presumed royalty rate that the patent holder would have otherwise been entitled to, it is possible that our liability may increase as a result of the incorporation of our technology with our customer’s products or as a result of any finding of willful infringement. In some cases, potential damages against us could be based on the profits derived from a product that infringes through the use of our software even though we receive a relatively moderate economic benefit from the licensing arrangement. The adoption of industry-wide standards for interactive television could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services or place downward pressure on our pricing. Ongoing efforts to establish industry-wide standards for interactive television software include a commitment by cable network operators in the United States to deploy a uniform platform for interactive television based on a jointly developed specification known as “tru2way” (or OCAP) and an initiative by European television industry participants to create a similar platform called MHP. We are a participant in both standards bodies and have agreed to license our intellectual property in connection with the implementation of tru2way and MHP. The establishment of these standards or other similar standards could adversely affect the pricing of our products and services, significantly reduce the value of our intellectual property and the competitive advantage our proprietary technology provides, cause us to incur substantial expenditures to adapt our products or services to respond to these developments, or otherwise hurt our business, particularly if our products require significant redevelopment in order to conform to the newly established standards. The adoption of incompatible standards by our industry and rapid technological advances could render our products and services obsolete or non-competitive. The migration of television from analog to digital transmission, the convergence of television, the Internet, communications and other media, and other emerging trends, such as the deployment of high definition television and multicasting, are creating a dynamic and unpredictable environment in which to operate. Our ability to anticipate trends and adapt to new technologies and evolving standards is critical to our success, and if we fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, then our future growth prospects will be diminished and our results of operations will be negatively impacted. The deployment of new digital television applications, such as high definition television and multicasting multiple television programs through a single channel, may compete directly with our products and services for broadcast distribution capacity. To the extent that such capacity cannot accommodate all of the applications that a cable or direct broadcast satellite system operator wants to distribute, then there is a risk that other applications will be deployed to the exclusion of our content and applications. If this occurs, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Any delay or failure on our part to respond quickly, cost-effectively and sufficiently to these developments could render our products and services obsolete or non-competitive and have an adverse effect on our business, 18 Table of Contents financial condition and operating results. In addition, we must stay abreast of cutting-edge technological developments and evolving service offerings to remain competitive and increase the utility of our services, and we must be able to incorporate new technologies into our products in order to address the increasingly complex and varied needs of our customer base. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully, and any failure to do so may adversely affect us. Government regulations may adversely affect our business. The telecommunications, media, broadcast and cable television industries are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies. These governmental agencies continue to oversee and adopt legislation and regulation over these industries, particularly in the areas of user privacy, consumer protection, the online distribution of content and the characteristics and quality of online products and services, which may affect our business, the development of our products, the decisions by market participants to adopt our products and services or the acceptance of interactive television by the marketplace in general. In particular, governmental laws or regulations restricting or burdening the exchange of personally identifiable information could delay the implementation of interactive services such as targeted and addressable advertising or create liability for us or any other manufacturer of software that facilitates information exchange. These governmental agencies may also seek to regulate interactive television directly. Future developments relating to any of these regulatory matters may adversely affect our business. Changes to current accounting policies or in how such policies are interpreted or applied to our business could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business and could make it difficult for investors to assess properly our financial condition or operating results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or in how such policies are interpreted or applied to our business could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may in the future be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: • Revenue recognition; • Accounting for share-based compensation; • Accounting for income taxes; and • Accounting for business combinations, related goodwill and other intangible assets. As a software company, our revenue recognition policy, in particular, is a key component of our results of operations and is based on complex rules that require us to make judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred. As a result, we may receive cash from a customer, or bill that customer, but not be able to recognize the revenue associated with that cash, or billing, for some period of time under applicable accounting rules. This results in our recording the billing as “deferred revenue” on our balance sheet. There are also complex accounting rules associated with the treatment of internal contract costs, and whether those costs should be deferred or expensed as incurred. A determination whether to defer or expense certain costs may materially affect our financial presentation. Because different contracts may require different accounting treatment, it may be difficult for investors to properly assess our financial condition or operating results unless they carefully review all of our financial information, including our statement of operations, balance sheet and statement of cash flows. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS 123(R)) which requires the measurement of all share-based compensation to 19 Table of Contents employees, including grants of restricted stock and employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of income. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) had a material effect on our reported financial results. It will continue to materially affect our reported financial results and, to the extent it affects our ability to adequately retain or attract our employees through the use of share-based compensation, our business operations may be adversely impacted. Through the use of our technology we have the ability to collect personal and confidential information from set-top boxes. If we fail to protect this information from security breaches or misuse this information, then our operations could be disrupted and we could be subject to litigation and liability under privacy laws. Through the technology that we license for use in set-top boxes, we have the ability, when requested by our customers, to collect and store personal information from users of our applications. We may also have access to that type of information as we deploy our interactive advertising platforms. Subject to applicable laws, and the agreement of our customers and consumers, we may seek to use such information to help develop addressable and targeted advertising businesses. Storage and use of such information is subject to laws and regulations and may also subject us to privacy claims relating to its use and dissemination. In addition, a third party might be able to breach our security measures and gain unauthorized access to our servers where such information is stored and misappropriate such information or cause interruptions to our business operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to monitor the laws applicable to privacy matters, to protect against security breaches or to deal with the consequences of any breach. A breach of privacy rights by us, network operators or others could expose us to liability. Any compromise of security or misuse of private information could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition and expose us to costly litigation and regulatory action. Concerns over the security of personal information transmitted through our applications and the potential misuse of such information might also inhibit market acceptance of our applications, and if this occurs, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our multinational operations expose us to special risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of management. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from customers located outside of the United States and have significant operations in a number of countries around the world. Our international operations are subject to special risks, including: • differing legal and regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the costs associated with the maintenance of multiple office facilities around the world; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • difficulties in staffing and managing offices as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; • longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political and economic instability; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our software products may contain errors, which could cause us to lose revenue and incur unexpected expenses. Software development is an inherently complex process, which frequently results in products that contain errors, as well as defective features and functions. Moreover, our technology is integrated into other products and services deployed by our network operator customers. Accordingly, a defect, error or performance problem with our technology could cause the systems of our network operator customers to fail for a period of time or to be impaired in certain respects. Any such failure could subject us to damage claims and claims for indemnification by our customers and result in severe customer relations problems and harm to our reputation. While our agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit or exclude our exposure to potential liability claims in those circumstances, those provisions may not be effective, in all respects, under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of damages in settlement or upon the determination of any of these types of claims. The interests of our majority owner may differ from yours and may result in OpenTV acting in a manner inconsistent with your general interests. Kudelski SA beneficially owned Class A and Class B ordinary shares representing approximately 31.4% of the economic interest and 76.7% of the voting power of our ordinary shares outstanding as of December 31, 2007. As a result of its ownership of our ordinary shares, Kudelski has sufficient voting power, without the vote of any other shareholder, to determine the outcome of any action presented to a vote of our shareholders, including amendments of our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association for any purpose (which could include increasing or reducing our authorized capital or authorizing the issuance of additional shares). The interests of Kudelski, which owns or controls a variety of companies and technologies relating to digital television, may diverge from your interests, and Kudelski may be in a position, subject to general fiduciary obligations, to cause or require us to act in a way that is inconsistent with the general interests of the non-affiliated holders of our Class A ordinary shares. Because we are controlled by Kudelski, we are exempt from certain listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market relating to corporate governance matters. Over the past several years, the National Association of Securities Dealers has adopted certain listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market designed to enhance corporate governance standards of the companies who are listed thereon. As a result of Kudelski’s beneficial ownership of our Class A and Class B ordinary shares, we are not subject to some of these requirements, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors be “independent” under the guidelines established by the National Association of Securities Dealers and certain requirements regarding the determination of our Chief Executive Officer’s compensation and our director nominees. While we do not believe that our exemption from those requirements affects the manner and method by which we manage and operate the company, investors should be aware that we are not subject to those provisions and may have no obligation to comply with those requirements in the future unless our ownership profile changes. Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, you may not be able to enforce judgments against us that are obtained in United States courts. We are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or to enforce against us judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by British Virgin Islands counsel that judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in 21 Table of Contents British Virgin Islands courts and that there is doubt as to whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, your rights as a shareholder may be less clearly established as compared to the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association and by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our controlling shareholder than they would have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Certain provisions contained in our charter documents could deter a change of control of us. Certain provisions of our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our Class A ordinary shares. For example, in February 2006, we amended and restated our memorandum of association to eliminate a restriction that previously prohibited us from issuing additional super voting Class B ordinary shares. The amended and restated memorandum of association also deleted provisions that previously caused each Class B ordinary share to automatically convert into a Class A ordinary share under certain circumstances, including upon the transfer of any Class B ordinary shares to a person who was not a shareholder, or an affiliate of a shareholder, prior to our initial public offering. The comparatively low voting rights of our Class A ordinary shares as compared to our Class B ordinary shares, all of which were beneficially owned by Kudelski as of December 31, 2007, as well as other provisions of our amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association, may delay, deter or prevent other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 