ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in or maintain your investment in our company. The risks described below are not intended to be an all-inclusive list of all of the potential risks relating to an investment in our securities. If any of the following or other risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price or value of our securities could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Business We have operated at a loss and will likely continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. We have operated at a loss since our inception. We incurred net losses of $2,246,000, and $5,006,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2009 of approximately $77,100,000 and a working capital deficit of approximately $5.8 million. We are likely to continue to incur losses unless and until we are able to commercialize one or more of our proposed products. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict when we may become profitable, if at all. If we do not become profitable or are unable to maintai n future profitability, the market value of our common stock will be adversely affected. We will need additional capital in order to successfully implement our business plan, without which we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan, which may cause us to have to curtail or cease operations. Based on our current level of operations and assumptions regarding future expenses, we believe that we have sufficient cash on hand and future cash in-flows to fund our administrative expenses for the next year. However, our business plan calls for us to incur significant additional expenses in connection with marketing and commercializing our future products and in developing and expanding our business and operations. Although we anticipate that our future operations will generate operating revenues, our future development costs, and the costs of commercially releasing any of our proposed products will exceed the amount of cash that we currently have. Accordingly, in order to expand our operations in the manner contemplated by our business plan, or to continue to operate our company more than twelve mont hs from now, we will have to either (i) obtain additional debt or equity financing or (ii) enter into a strategic alliance with a synergistic company to provide its required funding. While we have had substantive discussions with potential providers of additional capital, we do not have commitments from any third parties at this time to provide this financing. Thus, there can be no assurance that sufficient funding will be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on a timely basis, the development of our products could be delayed, our marketing plans may have to be scaled back, and we could be forced to reduce the scope of our product development and operations, or otherwise limit or terminate our operations altogether. Any equity additional funding that we obtain will reduce the percentage ownership held by our existing security holders. 10 We have no direct operating history in the nutraceutical and cosmeceutical business, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial position and our business plan. Until the end of 2008, we were engaged in the sale of research diagnostic reagents and assays to medical research laboratories, and in the production of enzyme immunoassay diagnostic kits for domestic and international clinical laboratories. Since 2008, we no longer are engaged in those businesses, and have restructured our operations as discussed in Part I of this document. However, since we have only recently commenced our new operations pursuant to this business model and have not yet generated significant revenues from our new operations, we have no operating history in that line of business on which a decision to invest in our company can be based. The future of our company currently is dependent upon our ability to implement our new business plan. And, we have brought onto our team several individuals with direct experience in these fields. to help achieve this. However, while we believe that our business plan, if implemented as contemplated, will make our company successful, we have no operating history against which we can test our plans and assumptions, and therefore cannot evaluate the likelihood of success. We plan to outsource and rely on third parties for the development and manufacture and marketing of our products. Our business model calls for the outsourcing of the development, manufacturing and marketing of our products in order to reduce our capital and infrastructure costs as a means of potentially improving the profitability of these products for us. We have not yet entered into all of the manufacturing arrangements that we will required and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into satisfactory arrangements for these development and manufacturing services or the marketing of our products. Our products will be subject to government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, which could increase our costs significantly and limit or prevent the sale of our products. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and sale of any products that we may in the future release will be subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries. The primary regulatory bodies in the United States are the FDA and FTC. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may result in various types of penalties or fines. These include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecutions. Individual states also regulate nutritional supplements. A state may interpret claims or products presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state's regulations. In markets outside the United States, we may have to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a country's ministry of health or comparable agency, as well as labeling and packaging regulations, all of which vary from country to country. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. Any of these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, or could take aggressive measures, causing or contributing to a variety of negative consequences, including: · requirements for the reformulation of certain or all products to meet new standards, · the recall or discontinuance of certain or all products, · additional record keeping, · expanded documentation of the properties of certain or all products, 11 · expanded or different labeling, · adverse event tracking and reporting, and · additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us. Our success may be linked to the size and growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of that market could have a material adverse effect on us. Some manufacturers in our industry have experienced a slow-down in sales of nutritional supplements. An adverse change in size or growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market could have a material adverse effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research, which may be positive or negative. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies in our industry, and adverse publicity and negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could limit our ability to increase revenue and grow our business. Decisions about purchasing made by consumers of our products may be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality or quality of particular ingredients or products in general or of other companies or our products or ingredients specifically. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory in vestigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. Publicity related to nutritional supplements may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry and/or the healthy foods channel. Adverse publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. We face intense competition from competitors that are larger, more established and that possess greater resources than we do, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to maintain sufficient market share to sustain profitability. Numerous manufacturers and retailers compete actively for consumers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this intensely competitive environment. In addition, nutraceutical and cosmeceuticals can be purchased in a wide variety of channels of distribution. These channels include mass market retail stores and the Internet. Because these markets generally have low barriers to entry, additional competitors could enter the market at any time. Private label products of our customers also provide competition to our products. Additional national or international companies may seek in the future to enter or to increase their presence in the nutraceutical and cosmeceutical or the vitamin, mineral supplement market. Increased competition in either or both could have a material adverse effect on us. 12 The nutritional supplement industry increasingly relies on intellectual property rights and although we seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, which claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Recently it has become more and more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. We seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, but there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringeme nt claims against us. These developments could prevent us from offering or supplying competitive products or ingredients in the marketplace. They could also result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights. If an infringement claim is asserted or litigation is pursued, we may be required to obtain a license of rights, pay royalties on a retrospective or prospective basis, or terminate our manufacturing and marketing of our products that are alleged to have infringed. Litigation with respect to such matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our patents may not protect the proprietorship of our products. Our ability to compete successfully will depend to a significant extent, on our patents and on our ability to defend our patents. Most of the initial products that we plan to release are based on the benefits of ERGO. Our patents and patent applications address the ability to make ERGO and its protective effect of ERGO on mitochondria and its neuroprotectant properties. We believe these patents thus provide us with a competitive advantage in our market. We have retained the service of the law firm of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, LLP to assess and enforce our patent protection rights for manufacture and use of ERGO which has been used in a variety of product world-wide, principal in cosmeceuticals. However, the failure to defend our patents could have an adverse effect on our planned business operatio ns and product sales. Even though we have obtained patent protection for certain effects and preparation processes related to Ergothioneine, there is no guarantee that the coverage of these patents will be sufficiently broad to protect us from competitors or that we will be able to enforce our patents against potential infringement by third parties or protect us against our infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties. Patent litigation is expensive, and we may not be able to afford the costs. Ergothioneine has been previously marketed by various other companies in cosmeceutical and nutraceutical purposes. This may make it more difficult for us to enforce our patent coverage for our proposed products and easier for third parties to compete against us. 13 Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and may be traded infrequently and in low volumes, which may negatively affect your ability to sell your shares at or near the quoted bid prices and may reduce the stock price of your shares. The shares of our common stock may trade infrequently and in low volumes on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who can generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such institutionally oriented persons, they tend to be risk-averse in this environment and would be reluctant to follow an early stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a con sequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained. Due to these conditions, we can give you no assurance that you will be able to sell your shares at or near bid prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our securities, and could even result in the loss by investors of all or part of their investment. You may have difficulty selling our shares because they are deemed “penny stocks.” Since our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, if the trading price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock will be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-national securities exchange equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in pe nny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and the ability of holders of the common stock to sell their shares. 14 Our existing stockholders are subject to significant additional dilution if the currently outstanding options, warrants and convertible promissory notes are exercised. As of March 30, 2010, a total of 77,403,440 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. However, we currently have outstanding options, warrants and convertible promissory notes that could result in the issuance of a total of 459,416,847 additional shares of common stock. In addition, we have entered into agreement that grant certain parties the right to convert amounts that we owe into up to 2,500,000 shares of additional shares. If all shares issuable under the foregoing options, warrants, convertible promissory notes and other agreements were issued, our current shareholders would own 14% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. We plan to take measures, as they are available and appropriate, to reduce the amount of potential dilution. These measures might include paying of f certain debt instruments that contain rights to convert into a substantial number of shares. Our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock and may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 30, 2010, our directors and executive officers have the ability to direct the voting of approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. Theorem Group, LLC, an affiliate of Mr. Dube, through its right to vote approximately 81% of our voting shares, will be able to direct the outcome of matters, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: · our merger with or into another company; · a sale of substantially all of our assets; and · amendments to our certificate of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our common stock price to fall. In addition to the 77,403,440 shares of common stock that are outstanding as of March 30, 2010, there are currently approximately 461,916,847 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options, warrants, convertible debentures, and other agreements. If many of these shares are actually issued, the percentage of our company owned by the current stockholders will substantially decrease, which could substantially reduce the value of each shares of currently outstanding common stock. In addition, the voting power of the currently outstanding shares would substantially decrease. Furthermore, the possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock may be sold in the public market could adver sely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. However, holders of certain securities that may be convertible into common stock are limited in their ability to convert by contractual terms and other practical limitations. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: · announcements by us of new product releases, or the delay in releasing new products; · developments with respect to our patents or proprietary rights; · announcements of new products or new contracts by our competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed such estimates; 15 · conditions and trends in the nutraceutical, cosmeceutical and other industries; · new accounting standards; · general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and · the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report. ITEM1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 