Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, consolidated financial condition and cash flows. Energizer may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports it files with the SEC in the future.Energizer faces risks associated with global economic conditions and credit markets. Unfavorable global economic conditions, increased unemployment levels and uncertainty about the future economic prospects could reduce consumer demand for our products as a result of a reduction in discretionary spending of the consumers or a shift of purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private label. Similarly, our retailer customers could reduce their inventories, shift to different products or require us to lower our prices. Declining financial performance by certain of our retailer customers could impact their ability to pay us on a timely basis, or at all. These general risks were heightened recently as economic conditions globally deteriorated significantly and the recovery in most developed markets remains sluggish. Worsening economic conditions could harm our sales and profitability. Additionally, disruptions in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing. If we are not able to access debt capital markets at competitive rates or terms and conditions, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy will be negatively affected. If Energizer cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, it may not be able to compete effectively. The battery, portable lighting products, wet shave, skin care, feminine care and infant care industries have been notable for the pace of innovations in product life, product design and applied technology, and our success depends on future innovations. The successful development and introduction of new products, such as Schick Hydro, and line extensions face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors, as well as the possibility of reducing the sales of our existing products. There can be no assurance that our investments in research and development will lead to innovation and that we can recover the costs of such investments, or that our competitors will not introduce new or enhanced products that significantly outperform Energizer's, or develop manufacturing technology which permits them to manufacture at a lower cost relative to ours. If we fail to develop and launch successful new products, we may be unable to grow our business and compete successfully.Competition in Energizer's industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers. The categories in which Energizer operates, including battery, portable lighting products, wet shave, skin care, feminine care and infant care, are mature and highly competitive, both in the United States and on a global basis, as a limited number of large manufacturers compete for consumer acceptance and limited retail shelf space. At times, our retailer customers have sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms, and because of the highly competitive environment in which we operate as well as increasing retailer concentration, their efforts can be successful, resulting in either reduction of our margins, or our relative disadvantage to lower cost competitors. Competition is based upon brand perceptions, product performance and innovation, customer service and price. Energizer's ability to compete effectively may be affected by a number of factors, including:•Energizer's primary competitor in batteries, wet shave and feminine care products, The Procter & Gamble Company, has substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources and greater market share in certain segments than Energizer does, as well as significant scale and negotiating leverage with retailers and suppliers;•Energizer's competitors may have lower production, sales and distribution costs, and higher profit margins, than Energizer, which may enable them to offer aggressive retail discounts and other promotional incentives;•our competitors may be able to obtain exclusive distribution rights at particular retailers, or favorable in-store placement; and•we may lose market share to private label brands sold by retail chains, which are typically sold at lower prices than our products.The performance of the primary battery product category may be impacted by further changes in technology and device trends, which could impair Energizer's operating results and growth prospects. We believe an increasing number of devices are using built-in rechargeable battery systems, particularly in developed markets. We believe this continues to create a negative impact on the demand for primary batteries. This trend could put additional pressure on segment results going forward. Development and commercialization of new battery or device technologies not available to Energizer could also negatively impact our results and prospects.Energizer is subject to risks related to its international operations, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Energizer's businesses are currently conducted on a worldwide basis, with almost 50% of our sales in fiscal 2011 arising from foreign countries, and a significant portion of our production capacity located overseas. Consequently, Energizer is subject to a number of risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, including:•the effect of foreign income and withholding taxes, U.S. tax treatment of foreign source income and losses, and other restrictions on the flow of capital between countries;•our ability to utilize foreign based cash for various strategic needs could result in significant income tax expenses, which are not currently provided since we intend and plan to permanently reinvest these earnings in our foreign affiliates to fund local operations, fund pension and post retirement liabilities and to fund capital projects; •social legislation in certain countries;•the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls;•adverse changes in local investment or exchange control regulations;•hyperinflationary conditions in certain economies;•political or economic instability, government nationalization of business or industries, government corruption, and civil unrest; •legal and regulatory constraints;•tariffs and other trade barriers; and•difficulty in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights. Almost 50% of Energizer's sales in fiscal 2011 were denominated in local currencies but reported in U.S. dollars, and a high percentage of product costs for such sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to such currencies can negatively impact our reported sales and operating profits.Energizer's business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, advertising and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S., including by the Food and Drug Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, and by the Federal Trade Commission with respect to advertising. Similar regulations have been adopted by authorities in foreign countries where we sell our products, and by state and local authorities in the U.S. New or more restrictive regulations or more restrictive interpretations of existing regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. Legislative and regulatory changes by taxing authorities in both high-tax and low-tax countries have an impact on our effective tax rate, and we may be subject to additional costs arising from new or changed regulations relating to health care and energy. Additionally, a finding that we are in violation of, or not in compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to material civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions. Even if a claim is unsuccessful, is not merited or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions could jeopardize our reputation and brand image and have a material adverse effect on our businesses, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, recycling of batteries, and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenses and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations, including remediation costs relating to our current and former properties and third party waste disposal sites. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.The resolution of Energizer's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations. Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining our provisions for income taxes in the U.S. and jurisdictions outside the U.S. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse impact on future operating results.Changes in production costs, including raw material prices, could erode Energizer's profit margins and negatively impact operating results. Pricing and availability of raw materials, energy, and shipping and other services needed for our business can be volatile due to general economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, import duties and tariffs and other factors beyond our control. In the past, substantial increases in the cost of a number of raw materials have been partially offset by price increases. However, there is no certainty that Energizer will be able to offset future cost increases, especially given the competitive environment. This volatility can significantly affect our production cost, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Energizer has a substantial level of indebtedness and is subject to various covenants relating to such indebtedness, which limits its discretion to operate and grow its business. Energizer's current debt level remains at almost $2.4 billion. We may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to debt service, thereby reducing funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes. Our failure to make scheduled interest payments or to repay or refinance the indebtedness at maturity or obtain additional financing as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, many of our debt instruments are subject to certain financial and other covenants, including debt ratio tests. We may be in breach of such covenants in the event of future declines in our operating cash flows or earnings performance, foreign currency movements, or other unanticipated events. In the event of such breach, our lenders may be entitled to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-default provision applies, and we could be required to seek amendments or waivers under the debt instruments or to refinance the debt. There is no assurance that we would obtain such amendments or waivers or effect such refinancing, or that we would be able to do so on terms similar to our current debt instruments. The covenants and financial ratio requirements contained in our debt instruments could also increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate, place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have greater financial flexibility and limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds.Our credit ratings are important to our cost of capital. The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us specified credit ratings. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include our financial strength and financial policies. We aim to maintain our current ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to sources of capital on terms that we consider advantageous to our business. Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect the interest rate in future financings, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income. Energizer has a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which are periodically evaluated for impairment in accordance with current accounting standards. Declines in our profitability and/or estimated cash flows related to specific intangible assets, as well as potential changes in market valuations for similar assets and market discount rates may result in an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position.Loss of reputation of our leading brands could have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on the continuing reputation and success of our brands, particularly the Energizer, Eveready, Schick, Wilkinson Sword, Edge, Skintimate, Playtex, Diaper Genie, Wet Ones, Banana Boat and Hawaiian Tropic brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or new product offerings do not have the desired impact on our brand's image or ability to attract consumers. Further our operating results could be adversely affected if one of our leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues.Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability. Wal-Mart, together with its subsidiaries, is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 19.5% of net sales in fiscal 2011. Generally, sales to Wal-Mart and our other top customers are made pursuant to purchase orders and we do not have supply agreements or guarantees of minimum purchases from them. As a result, these customers may cancel their purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us at any time. The loss or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by Wal-Mart or any of our other top customers would harm our sales and profitability. Additionally, increasing retailer customer concentration could result in reduced sales outlets for our products, greater negotiating pressures and pricing requirements on Energizer.Energizer's manufacturing facilities or supply channels may be subject to disruption from events beyond our control. Operations of our manufacturing and packaging facilities worldwide may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including availability of raw materials, work stoppages, industrial accidents, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality or safety issues, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues and acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. The supply of our raw materials may be similarly disrupted. There is also a possibility that third party manufacturers, which produce a significant portion of certain of our products, could discontinue production with little or no advance notice, or experience financial problems or problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery, resulting in manufacturing delays or disruptions, regulatory sanctions, product liability claims or consumer complaints. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations.A failure of a key information technology system could adversely impact our ability to conduct business. We rely extensively on information technology systems, including some which are managed by third-party service providers, in order to conduct business. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to communicating within Energizer and with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, and complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements. The information technology systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to the poor performance or failure of third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, network outages, failed upgrades or other similar events. If our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in conducting our business which may adversely impact our operating results.Energizer's business involves the potential for product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to claims arising out of alleged defects in our products, including for property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance covers all types of claims, particularly claims that do not involve personal injury or property damage, that such claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage, or that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition to the risk of monetary judgments not covered by insurance, product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm our or our products' reputation. Additionally, we do not maintain product recall insurance. As a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans. The funding obligations for Energizer's pension plans, including those assumed in the ASR acquisition, are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, interest rates and governmental regulations. If the investment of plan assets does not provide the expected long-term returns, interest rates change, or if governmental regulations change the timing or amounts of required contributions to the plans, we could be required to make significant additional pension contributions which may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, our ability to comply with debt covenants and may require recognition of increased expense within our financial statements.If Energizer fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. In fiscal 2011, the vast majority of our total revenues were from products bearing proprietary trademarks and brand names. In addition, Energizer owns or licenses from third parties a considerable number of patents, patent applications and other technology. Accordingly, Energizer relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. There is a risk that Energizer will not be able to obtain and perfect or maintain our own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. In addition, even if such rights are protected in the United States, the laws of some other countries in which Energizer's products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our intellectual property rights will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and Energizer could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions relating to such rights. If other parties infringe our intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with our brands and harm our sales.We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits. We have completed four significant acquisitions since becoming an independent company in 2000, including, most recently, the acquisition of ASR in fiscal 2011. We expect to continue making acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. Furthermore, our existing operations may encounter unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources, which would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Even if we can complete future acquisitions, we face significant challenges in consolidating functions and effectively integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process can be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to our existing and acquired business, and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the business. Even if we can successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, there is no assurance that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or revenue enhancements will be realized within the expected time frame, or at all.The integration of Energizer's and ASR's businesses may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the acquisition may not be realized. The integration of the operations of the recently acquired ASR business with Energizer's business will continue to require a significant amount of time and attention as well as financial resources. Furthermore, ASR offers private label products, a product group in which we have limited experience. Even if we are able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits that are currently expected to result from the acquisition, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. The benefits of the acquisition may also be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity pricing, or in increased competition, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the combined company's private label and branded products. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Additional descriptions of risk factors impacting Energizer appearing under “ENERGIZER HOLDINGS, INC. - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION” are included in Exhibit 13 attached hereto, which will also appear in the Energizer Holdings, Inc. 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.