D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. In particular, we may not be effective in integrating our acquisitions or succeed in making additional acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue mergers and acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we acquired two sister companies engaged in the development and marketing of Revenue Assurance solutions. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business, technology or product may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and/or of investing in new technologies may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation, the failure of the acquired business to further our strategies, the inability to successfully integrate or commercialize acquired technologies or otherwise realize anticipated synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment will be realized. Future acquisitions or investments contemplated and/or consummated could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities as part of the consideration for such acquisitions or investments, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have limited experience with respect to operating acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or effective in integrating such acquisitions into our existing business. If the operation of the business of any future acquisitions disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Under the terms of our acquisition of Telesoft, we may be liable for Telesoft’s pre acquisition liabilities. These liabilities may be in excess of amounts we reserved. In December 2005, we acquired all the shares of Telesoft and agreed to assume all of the liabilities of Telesoft at the time of the acquisition. These liabilities might result in us having to make cash payments. In addition, if such liabilities exceed the liabilities we are aware of and have provided for in our financial statements or if there are liabilities that we were not aware of at the time of the acquisition and for which we are not indemnified, this could have an adverse affect on us. We could be subject to warranty claims, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. We typically provide one-year warranty programs with respect to our products. Our warranty generally provides that we will repair or replace products with defects in materials or workmanship or that fail to meet agreed-upon specifications. Any significant product returns or warranty claims could adversely affect our results of operations. We offer sophisticated products that may contain software with undetected errors. In addition, new products may experience failures when first introduced, and both current and future products may experience failures as new versions are released. We rely to a large extent on our reputation among industry leaders in conducting our sales efforts. Such product returns or warranty claims and the associated negative publicity, could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and hurt our business. We depend on single suppliers for some of our product components, including key product components in our legacy probing devices, and we cannot control the manufacturing and delivery of these components. Our business will be interrupted if these suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide these components. We utilize single suppliers for some of our product components, including critical components needed for some of ourproducts. We cannot control the delivery schedule for these components. In the event that any of these suppliers are unable to meet our requirements, or fail to do so in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. Any disruption, or any other interruption of a supplier’s ability to provide components to us, could result in delays in making product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as suppliers discontinue their products, or modify them in manners incompatible with our current use, or use manufacturing processes and tools that cannot be easily migrated to other vendors, we could have significant delays in product availability, which would have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we generally maintain an inventory for some of our components and subassemblies to limit the potential for an interruption and we believe that we can obtain alternative sources of supply in the event our suppliers are unable to meet our requirements or fail to do so in a timely manner, we cannot assure you that our inventory and alternative sources of supply would be sufficient to avoid a material interruption or delay in production and in availability of spare parts. In particular, ECI Telecom Ltd., our supplier of critical hardware components for our legacy probing devices, has special expertise in engineering these components. ECI has informed us that it will stop manufacturing some of these components as of August 2006. Accordingly, we need to arrange for the manufacture of these components directly through a contractor. We have initiated discussions with an alternative supplier that has performed manufacturing services for ECI in relation to these components. However, we may not be able to come to terms acceptable to us with such alternative supplier or any other suitable manufacturer of these components on a timely basis. If we are unable to locate and agree upon terms with a suitable alternative supplier for ECI on a timely basis or, even if we agree on terms, and such contractor is unable or unwilling to provide these components at some point in the future, we may experience substantial delays in the manufacturing of certain of our products and our business may suffer. In addition, we may be required to pay the alternative supplier higher price for these components than the prices currently charged by ECI. In addition, in connection with our sale to Verint Systems of our government surveillance business, we agreed to sell some of these components to Verint Systems for a period of seven years. Any problems with our supplier that cause us to breach our obligations to Verint Systems, which problems may not be under our control, could expose us to claims by Verint Systems. Such claims could materially harm our financial condition. 7 We are dependent upon Verint Systems to perform our remaining obligations under certain contracts with government customers on which we remained the named party. In connection with the sale to Verint Systems of our government surveillance business, we remained the named party on a number of contracts which required additional performance, including for warranty and other remaining services. With respect to these contracts, the customers consented to the performance by Verint of all the remaining obligations of ECtel under the contracts. The customers also agreed to communicate directly with Verint in connection with the performance of the contracts by Verint. However, we still may be liable to the customer in the event that Verint does not perform as required under these agreements and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer if these customers pursue claims against us. In the event that we suffer damages as a result of Verint’s non-performance, we may pursue our indemnification rights against Verint. The market for our products is highly competitive. Because some of our competitors have much greater resources than we have or have a lower cost structure than us, it may be difficult for us to return to, and maintain, profitability. We may also face competition from our customers. Competition in our industry is intense, and we expect it to continue. To compete effectively, we have, at times, been required to grant substantial discounts on our products, especially as some of our competitors utilize aggressive pricing strategies. In addition, we could lose sales to our competitors. Lower prices and reduced demand for our products would reduce our ability to generate revenue, which would harm our business. Some of the companies that compete with us have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are among the largest and most capitalized software and hardware companies in the world. Also, some of our competitors have located their research and development facilities in countries where labor costs for engineers and other experienced personnel are far lower than in Israel, where our research and development facilities are located. We may also face competition from our customers. Some of our customers are developing their own solutions internally or through strategic alliances. As a result, solutions developed by our customers may replace and/or compete with products that we currently sell to them or that we may seek to sell to them in the future. We depend on several relatively large customers and the loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant decrease in revenue from any of these customers, could have a disproportionate impact on our revenue and income. A substantial portion of our revenue has come from relatively large purchases by a small number of customers. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 59.1% of our revenues in 2005, with sales to three customers in Eastern Europe accounting for 26.0% of our revenues and sales to three customers in Latin America accounting for 16.6% of our revenues. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for 74.8% of our revenues in 2004, with sales to three customers in Eastern Europe accounting for 39.7% of our revenues and sales to a customer in Latin America accounting for 10.4% of our revenues. We expect to continue to depend on sales to a small number of customers. However, we do not have long-term commitments from any of our top customers to purchase any specific quantities of products. We expect that our largest customers will vary from period to period. If we lose one or more large customers and fail to add new customers our results of operations could be seriously harmed. We depend upon subcontracted outsourcers for the performance of certain of our European professional services and operations. The failure of these outsourcers to meet our quality or performance requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recently outsourced a portion of our professional services and operations in Europe to a subcontractor in Bulgaria. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue, expand and manage the use of outsourced subcontracting resources in these and other respects. There are certain risks entailed in these practices, including but not limited to: the continued availability of these resources is not assured; the potential for migration of some expertise to a contractor outside of our organization; and our policies relating to protection of intellectual property rights may be harder or not possible to institute, manage or enforce in a subcontractor organization. We have entered into a Distribution Agreement with ECI Telecom Ltd. under which we appointed ECI as our exclusive distributor in significant portions of the former Soviet Union, which we expect to be important markets for us. Accordingly, we are dependent upon ECI for the achievement of sales in those markets. In June 2005 we entered into a distribution agreement with ECI under which we appointed ECI as our exclusive distributor in the Russian Federation, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, territories from which we expect, in the aggregate, to derive a significant portion of our revenues in the near future. Under this agreement, ECI, among other things, maintains a business and sales organization in these territories to promote and/or effect the sale of those of our products and services covered by the agreement. The agreement is subject to termination by either party upon three months’ notice. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon a material breach by the other party or in the event of liquidation or similar consequences of the other party. However, if ECI were to terminate this agreement or if it does not succeed in obtaining orders for our products and services, for whatever reason, our prospects for achieving our business plan and growth targets may be harmed. Many of our customers require a lengthy, detailed and comprehensive evaluation process before they order our products. Our sales process has been subject to delays that have significantly decreased our revenues and which could result in the eventual cancellations of some sale opportunities. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of products and related services for telecommunications service providers. The purchase of our products represents a relatively significant capital expenditure for our customers. As a result, our products generally undergo a lengthy evaluation and purchase process before we can sell them. In recent years, our customers are conducting a more stringent and detailed evaluation of our products, and decisions are subject to additional levels of internal review. As a result, the evaluation process has significantly lengthened. This evaluation process is currently taking between six and 18 months. The following factors, among others, affect the length of the approval process: — the time involved for our customers to determine and announce their specifications; — the time required for our customers to process approvals for purchasing decisions; — the complexity of the products involved; — the technological priorities and budgets of our customers; and — the need for our customers to obtain or comply with any required regulatory approvals. Delays in project approval have significantly decreased our revenues in the past. If customers continue to subject our products to lengthy evaluation processes, if they continue to delay project approval, if delays lengthen further, or if such continued delays result in the eventual cancellation of any sale opportunities, it could harm our business and results of operations. We increased our cooperation with distribution channels for the sale of our products and services. If our relationship with these distribution channels is for any reason impaired, our business and results of operations may suffer. We have agreements in place with distributors and system integrators to market and sell our products and services in addition to our direct sales force. We derive about one quarter of our revenues from these sales channels. When a sale is directed through a distribution channel and not directly by us, if the sales effort of these channels are not successful we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. In addition, there can be no assurance that our channel partners will not develop or market products or services in competition with us in the future. Furthermore, our financial results may be affected if our contracts with distribution channels were terminated, if our relationship with channel partners were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of our channel partners were to weaken. Increased expense levels will harm our business if our revenues do not grow. Our revenues for 2005 were $23.2 million, compared to $12.6 million for 2004. Our net loss from continuing operations for 2005 was $1.4 million, compared with a net loss from continuing operations of $25.7 million for 2004, which excludes $12.3 million in income that was attributable to our discontinued government surveillance business. We implemented a comprehensive recovery plan in 2004 aimed at rebuilding our business in response to the significant decrease in our revenues. Although the plan involved significant expense reductions in 2004 and 2005 in order to bring expenses more into line with revenues, it also involved increasing our focus on sales execution, project delivery and customer support. We expect to increase our investment in our sales and marketing and research and development activities in order to support our growth plan, which is aimed at increasing our revenues. In addition, we recently acquired Telesoft and have absorbed 28 of their employees as part of this acquisition. Accordingly, we expect our operating expenses to increase in 2006 in relation to 2005. If our revenues do not increase proportionately to our operating expenses, or if revenues decrease or do not meet expectations for a particular period, and we are not able to reduce our expenses in the short term, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon our protection of our proprietary technology, including both software and hardware components of ourproducts. We currently rely on a combination of patents, trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We have several registered patents and trademarks as well as patent and trademark applications covering some of our technology and are in the process of preparing and filing additional patent and trademark applications. We cannot assure you that any of these applications will be granted. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect us from the claims of others. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Moreover, competitors and potential competitors may attempt to copy or reverse engineering aspects of our product line or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology for these or any other reasons, our business may suffer. Because our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business will suffer if we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. Many participants in the telecommunications industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to pursue litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. All of our products rely on technology that could be the subject of existing patents or patent applications of third parties. We have agreed to indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future with respect to our current or future products. These claims may require us to enter into license arrangements or result in protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. Any necessary licenses may not be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop selling our products in some or all countries, and our business would be seriously harmed. 8 Volatility experienced by telecommunications service providers may adversely affect our sales and operating results. The telecommunications service provider market to which we sell historically has been volatile. From time to time this industry has experienced significant downturns. For instance, beginning in late 2000 and continuing into 2003, the deterioration of the global economy in general and economic uncertainty in the telecommunications market in particular resulted in a decline of capital investment by telecommunications service providers. This decline in capital expenditures significantly reduced our sales and also resulted in pressure on the prices we charge for our products. While recovery of the telecommunication market was evident in 2004, the two principal markets in which we compete, the fraud prevention solution market and the revenue assurance market both continued to suffer the lasting impact of the changes to the market between 2000 and 2003. If the recovery in our principal markets continues to progress at a slow pace such that current and potential customers postpone or decrease further capital investment, our revenues may fail to grow significantly or may decline, either of which would have a continued material adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, adverse market conditions in the future could have a negative impact on our business by reducing the number and the value of new contracts we are able to sign. In addition, a recurrence of the slowdown in the buying decisions of telecommunications service providers could extend our sales cycle period and limit our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. Developments affecting telecommunication service providers, such as mergers, can adversely affect us. Developments in the telecommunications industry, such as the impact of general global economic conditions, continued industry consolidation, the formation of alliances among network operators and service providers, and changes in the regulatory environment have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our existing or potential customers. These conditions have reduced the high growth rates that the telecommunications industry had previously experienced, and have caused the market value, financial results and prospects, and capital spending levels of many telecommunications companies to decline or degrade. In recent years, the telecommunications industry has experienced significant financial pressures that have caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital-intensive projects and have led to numerous restructurings and bankruptcies. Recent telecommunications company mergers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as existing or potential customers may be purchased or two customers may combine and combine operations in a manner that results in a decline in repeat sales by us, reduces the number of licenses we can sell to the combined entity or cause us to have to repeat significant pre-sale efforts in respect of one or more of the merger parties. 9 In previous years, we experienced fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations, which resulted, and may continue to result in the future, in volatility in our share price. In recent years we have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, and we may likewise experience significant fluctuations in our annual results of operations. Factors which have contributed and may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations include: — general economic conditions; — the capital spending patterns of our customers; — the size and timing of orders, including order deferrals, and subsequent shipments; — market acceptance of new products; — the timing of our product introductions or enhancements or that of our competitors or providers of complementary products; — the percentage of sales for which we pay sales commissions; — disruptions in our sources of supply; and — increasing delays between the receipt of awards and the formal issuances of purchase orders. The results of past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may again be below our expectations, or the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which may cause our share price to drop. In addition to our software, our products also contain certain hardware components. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels of these components to meet anticipated demand. If we cannot predict orders accurately, our inventory may become obsolete and our financial performance may be harmed. Our solutions consist of both software and hardware components. The timing and volume of our customers’ orders are generally difficult to forecast for each quarter, as a substantial majority of our sales are booked and shipped in the same quarter pursuant to purchase orders. We purchase the hardware components of our solutions from a small number of manufacturers, some of which may not always timely fill our orders. We must therefore maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Maintaining sufficient inventory levels to assure prompt delivery of our products increases the risk of inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs. A shift in demand could also result in inventory write-offs, which could harm our financial performance. For example, during the first half of 2004, we recorded an inventory write-off of approximately $915 thousand in connection with inventory that became obsolete or that we estimated that we would not be able to sell. 10 The payment cycle for our receivables may reduce the cash we have available to operate and expand our business. As is typical in the telecommunications industry, our contracts may provide for payments under a variety of payment schedules. For example, we may receive a deposit prior to shipment, a partial payment upon delivery and final payment after 180 or 360 days from delivery. Also, we may collect payments due to specific project milestones, upon specific customization and development progress. Such payment cycles may adversely affect the cash resources available to operate and expand our business. Because the telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological and other changes, our success depends on our ability to continually develop technologically advanced products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. The telecommunications market is characterized by rapid technological advances and frequent product introductions and enhancements. We believe that our future success will largely depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and to successfully develop and market products on a cost-effective and timely basis. The technologies applicable to our products include applications capable of analyzing and processing data based on accepted telephony standards and protocols. If other technological standards and protocols gain broad market acceptance, we will be required to redesign our existing products or design new products that are able to view and analyze networks based on these new standards and protocols. For example, the types of fraudulent schemes to which service providers are subject change with the emergence of new technologies, networks and other developments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing new applications or systems that will respond to technological change. 11 Our business and its future growth depend on increased market acceptance of services based on packet-switched technology and third generation wireless networks. If these services are not fully developed and accepted in the marketplace, our growth plans will be materially adversely affected. Several of our newer products are designed to meet the specific requirements of new value-added services being made available by packet-switched technology (VoIP) and third generation wireless networks (3G). The markets for VoIP and 3G are currently developing. We cannot be sure that the delivery of telephone, other communication or new value-added services through VoIP or 3G networks rather than over traditional telephone networks will expand. If third generation networks and VoIP services are not fully developed and accepted in the marketplace, the market for some of our newer products may not develop or be sustainable. In that case, our business would be adversely affected. Implementation of certain new technologies by telecom carriers may result in a decline in demand for our products. New technologies, such as VoIP, are facilitating the use of cheaper communications media and new pricing schemes, such as flat rates, by some telecom service providers. Such service providers may be less inclined to invest in high-end solutions like ours. Moreover, since these technologies enable the service providers to offer relatively low calling rates to subscribers, this may reduce the incentive to commit telecom fraud or to constantly monitor revenue related processes and thereby reduce the demand for anti-fraud and revenue assurance solutions like ours. This trend may harm our revenues and results of operation. We do business with companies located in countries around the world, which subjects us to additional risks. If these risks materialize, our business will be materially adversely affected. Because of the global nature of our business, we are exposed to the risk of economic or political instability in countries where our customers are located, particularly in developing countries. In addition, there are often longer sales and payment cycles in developing countries, as well as greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. We face additional risks from our international operations including: — difficulties of obtaining licenses, the imposition of tariffs and the effects of other trade barriers; — difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; — potentially adverse tax consequences; — laws and business practices favoring local competitors; — costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries; — compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; — political instability; and — variance and unexpected changes in local laws and regulations. In addition, we recently outsourced a portion of our professionalservices and operations in Europe to a subcontractor in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is still economically and politically unstable, suffers from exchange rate and inflation fluctuations, political and criminal corruption, and lack of commercial experience and unpredictability of the civil justice system. There can be no assurances that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our Bulgarian operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. In addition, our ability to adequately protect our proprietary rights in Bulgaria is further unclear due to its political instability and the fact that the protection of intellectual properties in eastern European countries has traditionally been difficult to achieve. If we fail to overcome the challenges we encounter in our international operations, our business will be materially adversely affected. 12 Currency fluctuations could cause customers to default on payment. Currently our international sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause customers to default on payment. An increasing portion of our international sales is now denominated in Euros, and in the future additional sales may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. We may choose to limit this exposure by entering into hedging transactions. However, hedging transactions may not prevent exchange-related losses, and our business may be harmed by exchange rate fluctuations. Furthermore, as we seek to expand our sales to regions throughout the world, we might be exposed to risks of customers located in countries suffering from uncertain economic environments such as high inflation and solvency problems. A significant portion of our products is based on a single technology platform, and our business will suffer if we cannot develop new products based on this platform to meet the needs of our customers. A portion of our software applications is based on a single technology platform. If we are unable to develop new products that meet the needs of our customers because of our reliance on this single technology platform, sales of our products could decline. Any significant decrease in the sales of our products could seriously harm our results of operations. Our customers generally operate their networks using a wide variety of software applications, network equipment and software and hardware platforms. If our customers do not agree to use the technology platforms designated by us or if our products fail to integrate properly with our customers’ equipment, our ability to generate future sales will be harmed. For example, a portion of our FraudView® application platform uses the Win-Tel operating system. Most companies in the telecommunications industry currently use UNIX and may not be willing to implement a solution which is partially based on Win-Tel. If service providers are unwilling to accept a Win-Tel partially based solution, our business will be harmed. Breaches in the security of the data collected by systems that we have sold and still support could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Our customers rely on third-party security features to protect the privacy and integrity of customer data. Our products may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system, the hardware platform or the networks linked to the platform. Our QualiWeb®product, which we ceased to produce and to actively market in 2004, but which will still support, provides information using Web access, presents additional security issues for our customers. Exploitation of any vulnerability could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer systems of our customers. If the security of our products were compromised, our reputation would be significantly harmed, which would cause our business to suffer. In addition, we may be liable to our customers for any breach in security. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any breach. We are subject to new European regulations that will require us to use components consisting of environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to new European telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, pursuant to a European Community directive, telecom equipment suppliers are required to cease using specified materials that are not “environmentally friendly” by July 1, 2006. In addition, telecom equipment suppliers are required under this directive to eliminate the lead solders from their products by 2010. Compliance with these directives may require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of certain of our hardware products or find other complying alternatives. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for third party components that comply with this directive. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could harm our ability to sell our products in Europe and in any other countries that may adopt this directive, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals or cannot hire additional qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. Our business and future growth and success largely depend on the managerial and technical skills of members of our senior management. If one or more of the members of the senior management team are unable or unwilling to continue in our employ, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends to a substantial degree upon our ability to attract, motivate, and retain other highly-qualified personnel. There is competition in Israel for the services of highly-qualified technical and engineering personnel. There is also considerable competition for the services of experienced sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able either to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel if and when needed. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares face income tax risks. There is a substantial risk that we are a passive foreign investment company, commonly referred to as PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. For U.S. Federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset which produces passive income. As a result of our substantial cash position and the decline in the value of our stock in prior years, we would be classified as a PFIC if the asset test described above were applied on the basis of our market capitalization. There is a possibility that the application of the asset test based on an alternative valuation of our total assets would also result in our being classified as a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning our ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States Holders should carefully read “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. 14 Risks Related to Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal offices and manufacturing facilities and many of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. From October 2000 until recently, there was a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians, which led to a breakdown of the entire peace process and has affected Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries. In addition, in January 2006, Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Hamas does not recognize Israel’s right to exist as a state and Israel considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the recent relative calm and renewed discussions with Palestinian representatives will continue. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as the result of the recent increase in hostilities. These restrictive policies have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic conditions in Israel. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Because most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars but a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be seriously harmed by inflation and currency fluctuations. We generate most of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in New Israeli Shekels, commonly referred to as NIS. As a result, we are exposed to risk to the extent that the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In either event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the NIS. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We are entitled to tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as approved enterprises. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions stipulated in applicable law and in our specific approvals, including making specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. From time to time, we submit requests for expansion of our approved enterprise programs or for new programs to be designated as approved enterprises. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of difficult economic conditions in Israel. In addition, in March 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for investments that qualify for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. We received an approval in principle from the Investment Center with respect to the sale of our government surveillance business to Verint Systems in March 2004. If the Investment Center declines, for any reason, to grant us the final approval, our tax benefits under Israeli law will be materially reduced, see “Item 10 Additional Information –Israeli Taxation”. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Because we receive grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions, and certain of our large shareholders are required to undertake to observe such restrictions. Also, if we choose not to submit any new requests for grant programs, or, if the grants under requests we have made are decreased or terminated, our costs would increase. We receive royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. According to Israeli law, any products developed with grants from the OCS are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay the Office of the Chief Scientist up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay such grants at a quicker rate. Furthermore, the transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than ten percent of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable would be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. We recorded grant participations of approximately $0.5 million in 2005 and approximately $1.4 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2005, our contingent liability to the Office of the Chief Scientist with respect to grants received was approximately $2.7 million. The Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years and has indicated that it may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. These programs may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. From time to time, we decide to submit requests for new OCS grants. There can be no assurance that we will receive any grants in the future, if we submit grant requests, or that, if we are approved for a grant, that there will not be a subsequent reduction in the amounts granted by the OCS. A failure to receive a grant applied for, reduction in the amount of an approved grant or the termination of the OCS grant program would increase our operational costs. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers or directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, since we are incorporated and headquartered in Israel and upon our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in NIS, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in NIS at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in NIS ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 16 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, and therefore depress the price of our stock. The Israeli Companies Law – 1999 includes restrictions on mergers, such as special voting requirements, the ability of creditors to seek court intervention to delay or prevent a merger and mandatory waiting periods. In addition, under certain circumstances, the Companies Law requires that acquisitions be performed via tender offer. For more information, see “Item 10B – Memorandum and Articles of Association –Mergers and Acquisitions Under Israeli Law.” Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares We are currently a party to a securities litigation class action lawsuit, which, if determined adversely, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. On October 19, 2004, a class action complaint (the “Class Action Complaint”), Leumi Gemel Ltd. v. ECtel Ltd., et al., Case No. 8:04-CV-03380-RWT, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Named as defendants are ECtel Ltd., ECI Telecom Ltd., and certain of ECtel’s directors and officers. The Class Action Complaint alleges that the defendants violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, by making false and misleading statements in the Company’s SEC filings and press releases during a period beginning April 24, 2001, and lasting through April 2, 2003. The claims are purportedly brought on behalf of all persons who purchased our stock during that period. The plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages against the defendants, as well as attorneys’ fees and costs. On December 15, 2005, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint (the “Amended Class Action Complaint”), and defendants, subsequently filed motions to dismiss the Amended Class Action Complaint. The hearing on our motion to dismiss has been scheduled for May 22, 2006. We believe that the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and intend to defend the case vigorously. In doing so, we may incur substantial costs. In addition, the litigation has been, and may continue to be, time-consuming and costly and could divert the attention of our senior management. These lawsuits or any future lawsuits filed against us could seriously harm our business. Our stock price has decreased significantly in the past and could continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price has decreased significantly since the first quarter of 2003. Even though our share price increased during the last year, numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, have caused and may continue to cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: — shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts and by us; — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; — announcements concerning us, our affiliates, or our competitors; — the introduction of new telecommunications services; — changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; — market conditions in our industry and the global economy in general; and — the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector). In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on the Nasdaq National Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. 17 