Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. If any of such events should occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. 20 Financial Risks Affecting Our Business We have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by general economic conditions The disruption experienced in U.S. and global credit markets during second half of 2008 and subsequent global economic downturn resulted in decreased demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in a sharp drop in energy prices, and affected the availability and cost of capital and, in turn, had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From an operating standpoint, the crisis resulted in a steep decline in the price we received for oil and natural gas and reduced revenues and profitability. Our reduced profitability arising from the global economic disruption was a principal factor, along with the effects of hurricanes, in the alleged non-compliance with various financial covenants in our then existing debt facilities and our 2009 filing for protection under the Chapter 11. While the U.S. and global economies have experienced a slow recovery from the deep recessionary conditions that prevailed in late 2008 and much of 2009 and commodity prices have recovered a portion of the decline experienced over that period, uncertainty that continues to exist with respect to the pace and sustainability of the economic recovery continues to be a risk to oil and natural gas operators and other businesses. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. Should the U.S. and global economies experience further weakness, demand for energy and accompanying commodity prices may decline and our financial position may deteriorate along with our ability to operate profitably and our ability to obtain financing to support operations and the cost and terms of same, is unclear. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to find and develop reserves. At December 31, 2011, our indebtedness under our term loan totaled $127.5 million (includes unamortized discount of $2.1 million), all of which matures in July 2016. Additionally, we expect to establish a new revolving credit facility in 2012 under which we may incur additional indebtedness. Our leverage and the current and future restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations and restrictions could have important consequences. For example, they could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • have a material adverse effect if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in any of our debt agreements, including an event of default if such event is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of future cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those who have proportionately less debt. Our credit facilities include, and our anticipated revolving credit facility is expected to include, certain financial covenants that require, among other things, that we satisfy certain interest coverage and asset to liability ratios and other financial performance metrics. If we breach a financial covenant and we are unable to cure such violation or obtain waivers from our lenders under our credit facilities within the applicable cure periods, such violation will constitute an event of default under the credit facilities, and our lenders could accelerate the due dates for the payments of all outstanding indebtedness and exercise their remedies as a secured creditor with respect to the collateral securing the credit facilities, which is substantially all of our natural gas and oil properties. In the event of any such events of default, we may be required to seek alternative financing in order to retire amounts owing under our credit facilities. If we are unable to cure any such defaults or repay amounts owing under our credit facilities when they come due, either through operating cash flow or alternative financing, we may be required to liquidate some or all of our properties to satisfy our indebtedness. Our credit facilities also include, or are expected to include, certain prohibitions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness without the consent of our lenders. Unless waived by our lenders, such prohibitions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness limit our development program to initiatives funded through operating cash flow. Such restrictions previously resulted in curtailment of our development plans from early 2009 until refinancing of our indebtedness in mid-2011. 21 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations due to events beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance. Our future performance will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, legislative, operating and other business factors, many of which we cannot control, such as general economic and financial conditions in our industry or the economy at large. Those factors, particularly the sharp decline in the global economy and the accompanying drop in oil and natural gas prices, resulted in certain alleged covenant defaults under our credit facilities and the eventual action on our part, during 2009, to seek protection under Chapter 11. We remain subject to the same risks as led to our prior alleged covenant defaults and bankruptcy. A significant reduction in operating cash flow resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition, or other events could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or further refinancing our indebtedness or seeking equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We expect to have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. Pursuant to our business plan, we expect to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas properties. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We presently finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations and cash on hand, including proceeds from our 2011 equity capital raises. Since early 2009, we have not had access to borrowing capacity under a revolving credit facility and at December 31, 2011 we lacked a revolving credit facility. The lack of credit availability under our prior revolving credit facility resulted in curtailment of our development program from early 2009 through early 2011. While we resumed our full development plan following receipt of funding from our 2011 equity raises, we continued to lack a revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011. In order to optimize our development program and cash management, we intend to seek to establish a new revolving credit facility in 2012. If our capital requirements vary materially from those reflected in our projections, we may require additional financing provided by a revolving credit facility or other financing sources. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. Without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned natural gas and oil exploration and development program to those activities that can be funded from our cash flow and cash on hand which may, in turn, adversely affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our natural gas and oil properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may lack capital to complete potential acquisitions or to capitalize on other business opportunities. If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize anticipated cash flows from our current and future oil and gas properties. If we fail to manage the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently anticipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. In early 2010, the administrative agent under our credit facilities unwound our existing hedges and, since that time, we have operated without hedges in place and bear the full risk of commodity price fluctuations. We expect to enter into a revolving credit facility during 2012 and, separately or as part of such facility, to enter into new hedging arrangements. We anticipate that any new revolving credit facility will place limits on our ability to hedge and possibly establish minimum hedging obligations. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price risk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. 22 If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated, causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. Derivatives regulation included in recently adopted financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, establishes, among other provisions, federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") is required to implement rules relating to these activities by July 16, 2012. On October 18, 2011, the CFTC approved regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, which regulations are presently being challenged in federal court by the Securities Industry Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements in our future derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the counterparties we might otherwise deal with. The schedule for promulgation of final rules has changed repeatedly, but the current schedule published by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission contemplates finishing final regulations in 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If our use of derivatives is curtailed in the future as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Oil and Gas Risks Affecting Our Business Drilling for natural gas and oil is a speculative activity and involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. We engage in exploration and development drilling activities. Any such activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons. In addition to a failure to find oil or natural gas, drilling efforts can be affected by adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Therefore, the successful drilling of a gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, could cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells could impede our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of inherent operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; 23 • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses due to costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would affect our financial results and impede growth. Our future revenues, profitability and cash flow will depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil and natural gas price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • level of global oil and natural gas exploration and productivity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our expected future revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we have periodically entered into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production and may enter into such transactions in the future. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices or that counterparties to hedging transactions will be able to meet their requirements in those hedging transactions. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our properties will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Any inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in the reserve reports summarized herein. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may be limited in our ability to maintain or book additional proved undeveloped reserves under the SEC’s rules. We have included in this Form 10-K certain estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 prepared in a manner consistent with our and our independent petroleum consultant’s interpretation of the SEC rules relating to modernizing reserve estimation and disclosure requirements for oil and natural gas companies. Included within these SEC reserve rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be classified as such if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Further, if we postpone drilling of proved undeveloped reserves beyond this five-year development horizon, we may have to write off reserves previously recognized as proved undeveloped. During the year ended December 31, 2011 we did not reduce our proved reserve estimates due to the five year development rule. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 71% of our total proved reserves were undeveloped and approximately 13% of our total proved reserves were developed non-producing. There can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. While we have plans or are in the process of developing plans for exploiting and producing a majority of our proved reserves, there can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. To the extent that we are not the operator of any portion of our proved undeveloped reserves, we may not be in a position to control the timing of all development activities. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that all of our undeveloped and developed non-producing reserves will ultimately be produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which could result in the write-off of previously recognized reserves. Unless we replace crude oil and natural gas reserves our future reserves and production will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production will depend on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we are unable to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves was curtailed from early 2009 until mid-2011 as a result of our inability to access our revolving credit facility and the resulting requirement that we fund capital investments from cash flow and cash on hand. While we substantially increased our drilling and development budget following our receipt of equity financing in 2011, we did not have a revolving credit facility in place at December 31, 2011 and, accordingly, fund our drilling and development budget from our funds on hand and operating cash flows. In the absence of additional external financing, our ability to make planned capital investments to maintain and expand our reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced due to natural declines in production, declines in commodity prices or otherwise. Even if we have sufficient financing to support our optimum development plan, we may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. 25 Our offshore operations involve special risks that could affect our operations adversely. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. In particular, we are not intending to put in place business interruption insurance due to its high cost. We therefore may not be able to rely on insurance coverage in the event of such natural phenomena. Our participation in, and realization of value from, shallow water ultra-deep shelf wells is subject to certain financing and operating risks that may prevent us from realizing the value of our deep reserve potential and expose us to delays, unexpected costs and other adverse financial consequences. We have identified potential ultra-deep prospects underlying our acreage. The cost of exploration of such prospects, even when limited to our proportionate interest in such costs, is likely beyond that which we could fund from our current financial resources. Accordingly, we intend to seek additional partners to absorb a substantial portion of our share of such exploration costs. To that end, we have entered into discussions with McMoRan Exploration with respect to the potential formation of a joint venture to explore one or more ultra-deep prospects. We have not, as of March 2012, entered into a definitive agreement with McMoRan or any other prospective partner to fund or participate in the exploration of our ultra-deep prospects. In the event that we enter into such a joint venture arrangement but are unable to make satisfactory arrangements to fund our portion of exploration costs, our interests in some of our ultra-deep prospects may be substantially reduced or lost with little or no benefit from such interests accruing to our benefit. Further, the shallow water ultra-deep wells are expected to be some of the deepest wells ever drilled in the world and are subject to very high pressures and temperatures. The drilling, logging and completion techniques are near the limits of existing technologies. As a result, new technologies and techniques are being developed to deal with these challenges. The use of advanced drilling technologies involves a higher risk of technological failure and potentially higher costs. In addition, there can be delays in completion due to necessary equipment that is specially ordered to handle the challenges of ultra-deep wells. Even if we are able to participate in drilling ultra-deep wells there is no assurance that such wells will be commercially viable. Such wells are presently expected to be natural gas wells and, based on the low price of natural gas at December 31, 2011, there is no assurance that the wells can be operated in an economically feasible manner even if successfully completed. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that could give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than us. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases may be acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The nature and age of our wells may result in fluctuations in our production resulting from mechanical failures and other factors. The majority of our wells have been in operation and have produced for many years. As a result of the age of those wells and their location in bay environments, those wells typically experience higher maintenance requirements than newer wells and wells located onshore. As a result, some of our wells may periodically be shut-in to perform maintenance or to restore optimal production levels or as a result of maintenance by third parties that operate facilities that serve our wells. Due to the periodic need to shut-in wells, we experience routine fluctuations in production levels with production declining below normal operating capacity during periods of maintenance. Further, because of their location in a bay environment, we sometimes experience delays in identifying and addressing production declines. 26 The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oil field services typically fluctuates based on demand for those services. While we have historically had excellent relationships with oil field service companies, there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The geographic concentration of our properties subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting the Louisiana Gulf Coast specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Louisiana Gulf Coast means that some or all of the properties could be affected should the region experience: • severe weather; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, the oil and gas properties that we acquired in July 2008 were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Gustav, which required the prior owners of the properties, in the case of Hurricane Katrina, and us, in the case of Hurricane Gustav, to spend a considerable amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there may be potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Because all or a number of the properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other producers who have properties over a wider geographic area. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets or delay production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In offshore operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms that we own or operate or that are owned and operated by others and, where facilities are owned and operated by others, the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity. When that occurs, we will be unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and gas and realization of revenues. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. We acquired our principal properties in July 2008 and our business plan includes pursuit of additional acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties in the future. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a larger organization; • coordinating potentially geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; 27 • an increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, we face the risk of identifying, competing for and pursuing other acquisitions, which takes time and expense and diverts management’s attention from other activities. The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we will review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. We may not be the operator on all of our future properties and therefore may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we may not serve as operator of all planned wells. We currently operate substantially all of our properties. However, it is possible that we will not serve as operator of all of the properties we may acquire in the future. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. 28 Our insurance may not protect us against all business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance policies are economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if possible. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe is appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks, including high-cost business interruption insurance and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita. As a result, insurance costs for many operators in the Gulf Coast region have increased significantly from the costs that similarly situated participants in this industry have historically incurred and insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005, insurance underwriters may no longer insure assets in the Gulf Coast region against weather-related damage. If an accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations — including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage — occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the United States and in the Gulf Coast region are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Companies operating in coastal waters are subject to laws and regulations addressing, among others, land use and lease permit restrictions, bonding and other financial assurance related to drilling and production activities, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental and safety matters, plugging and abandonment of wells and associated infrastructure after production has ceased, operational reporting and taxation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can subject us to governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injuries and property and natural resources damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations, and future laws or regulations, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could increase such compliance costs. Regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; • incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. 29 Under certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate our contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many countries as well as several states and regions of the U.S. have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning of natural gas and oil, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for some of our services or products in the future. See “Business — Regulatory Matters.” The catastrophic explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico will likely result in new governmental regulations relating to drilling, exploration and production activities in U.S. coastal waters, which could adversely affect our operations. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon, an offshore drilling rig located in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, sank following a catastrophic explosion and fire, which significantly and adversely disrupted oil and gas exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico. The duration of this disruption is currently unknown. The President appointed a commission to study the causes of the catastrophe for the purpose of recommending to the President what legislative or regulatory measures should be taken in order to minimize the possibility of a reoccurrence of a disastrous oil spill. Pending the completion of that report, the United States government imposed a suspension of all deepwater drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico through November 30, 2010, which moratorium has since been lifted. Various bills are being considered by Congress which, if enacted, could either significantly increase the costs of conducting drilling and exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico, particularly in deepwater, or substantially curtail Gulf of Mexico drilling and operation activity. Our operations are presently focused in the shallow waters of the Gulf Coast region and we do not operate in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. However, although our exploration activity in the shallow waters was not disrupted by the Deepwater Horizon incident, enhanced scrutiny of operations in shallow waters has resulted and new safety and permitting requirements are under consideration. There are a number of uncertainties affecting the oil and gas industry in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon events, including the possible increase or elimination of the current $75 million cap for non-reclamation liabilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the continued availability and affordability of insurance for drilling and exploration activities, the overall legislative and regulatory response to the catastrophe, and the ability to obtain drilling permits in the shallow water on a timely basis. Although the eventual outcome of these developments is currently unknown, additional regulatory and operational costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect future operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key operations personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our exploitation strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated or the decommissioning be accelerated, such costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 30 If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. Proposed legislation may eliminate certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. President Obama’s proposed Fiscal Year 2012 Budget of the U.S. Government includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted, eliminate certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas development. If the United States Congress were to pass legislation eliminating those deductions in accordance with the President’s proposal, we would likely experience increased tax liability. This could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 