risk factors. Notably, improvements in diabetes control were observed despite a reduction in diabetes medications among participants who received the Nutrisystem D intervention. A third study, utilizing continuous glucose monitoring technology, found improvements in blood glucose control when subjects used the Nutrisystem D program, even before the achievement of significant weight loss. By offering a variety of frozen and ready-to-go foods, we help our customers sustain their weight loss efforts. On our website, customers can order food 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The transition and maintenance plans allow customers the means to gradually increase their responsibility for grocery shopping and food preparation while adhering to the principles of the Nutrisystem approach. These lower cost programs help extend the supportive relationship and allow time to reinforce the dietary changes that produced the initial weight loss. These plans include recipes and portion-control tools in addition to a reduced number of Nutrisystem® entrees delivered each month. The features of our weight loss program address many of the most common limitations of traditional weight loss programs, including high initiation and recurring membership fees, the inconvenience of traveling to weight loss centers for scheduled appointments and lack of privacy. In addition, our prepared meals provide our customers with a structured program with limited weighing and measuring of foods and no need to count calories, carbohydrates or points. We believe that the convenience of home delivery, reduced grocery shopping time and rapid food preparation also aid customer compliance with our weight loss program. Our food items have accounted for 99% of our revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. No other product or service has accounted for more than 1% of our revenue in any of the last three years. In the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 99%, 98% and 97%, respectively, of our revenues were generated in the United States. 7 Table of Contents The Customer Experience Our sales, marketing, ecommerce, and service operations seek to understand our customers’ needs throughout their weight loss and management journey, so we can develop effective and compelling products and services. Through a combination of consumer research and data management, we personalize the introduction, on-boarding, weight loss, transition and maintenance phases of our customers’ experience. We run an efficient and effective business and are committed to ongoing professional development for all of our team members. Introduction/Acquisition We attract new customers via direct response television, online marketing (search engine marketing, search engine optimization, affiliate marketing, display advertising, partnerships, retargeting and email), direct mail, print advertisements and a variety of other direct marketing efforts. We have a fully integrated acquisition enterprise. Response is tracked to the specific vehicle, and analytic models are used to attribute other orders back to the response source, in order to closely manage the effectiveness of our specific direct marketing efforts. The majority of our new customers buy via our website. We consistently seek to refine our sales conversion funnel through thoughtful testing to improve the learning and buying experience for prospects and to increase conversion rates. We also have an in-house call center. Staffing levels fluctuate seasonally and are aligned to marketing spend and consequent call volume. Sales agents, paid primarily on commission, take in-bound responses from our advertisements, and personalize the weight loss plan for each customer. They also make out-bound calls to our leads. On-Boarding To help customers get off to a strong, successful and simple start, we provide both printed materials in their shipments of food (including a My Way Made Easy magazine, a Quick-Start guide, a Dining Out booklet and a Daily Food Tracker) and a robust set of personalized online tools and trackers. Customers are encouraged to join our large online community of customers past and present and we are active in social media to engage in conversations with our customers. On-Program We use customer preferences to offer a variety of additional products and services that help customers while on the path to their weight loss goals. These sales are made via our website, emails and newsletters, and our call center. We also offer complementary counseling services for our customers. We seek to hire counselors with backgrounds in psychology, sociology, nutrition, dietetics or other health-related fields and with suitable, compassionate personalities to help and support our customers as they begin their weight loss journey. Counselors are trained in our programs, motivational techniques and problem solving. Counselors take in-bound requests for help and also reach out to customers via email and phone. Transition and Maintenance As customers reach their weight loss goals, we offer transition and maintenance programs that provide products and guidance that combine the right amount of structure and flexibility. These programs are offered online, via email marketing, and via our call center’s retention agents. 8 Table of Contents Return/Reactivation Because we realize that weight management is a lifelong process, and that customers may need our programs again from time to time, we reach out to past customers to attempt to put them back on structured programs as needed. We attract past customers primarily via our advertising vehicles, targeted emails, and data-driven direct mail attempts. Customer Service We are committed to the highest levels of customer service. Our representatives are trained to answer questions and solve problems once a purchase has been made. Customers contact us via email and phone. Typical inquiries concern delivery dates, reported missing or damaged items, and requests for credits or exchanges. For email inquiries, we have a software system that scans the customer’s email for key words and automatically supplies the representative with a response that is then reviewed, edited, and sent to the customer. We regularly review customer satisfaction levels and improve our practices accordingly. Public Relations We conduct a proactive public relations program that is designed to garner positive coverage of Nutrisystem and our weight management programs across all media platforms including television, magazine, print, online news, bloggers and social media, particularly around the key dieting seasons. In addition, the public relations team supports an executive communication program to broadly support the Nutrisystem brand. Fulfillment An integrated order receipt, billing, picking, shipping and delivery tracking system comprised of proprietary and third party components is utilized for our orders. This system integrates the front end, or website customer interface, with order processing and shipping, and allows customers to access shippers’ order tracking numbers online. Our computer-assisted picking system allows for virtually paperless order picking in all warehouse facilities. We utilize an integrated network of distribution facilities through an existing arrangement with our outside fulfillment provider. We work closely with our fulfillment provider to drive out waste and continuously improve processes. We currently utilize five outsourced distribution facilities. Three are located in Pennsylvania (Allentown, Bethlehem and Chambersburg) and two in Nevada (both in Sparks). As of December 31, 2013, all fulfillment was being handled by one outsourced provider. We have a service agreement with our outside fulfillment provider, which provides for storage, handling of frozen and ready-to-go foods and other services, including pricing and minimum space commitments. The current contract expires on April 30, 2015, but may be terminated sooner upon 180 days written notice. We believe that other outside fulfillment providers could be utilized if needed and we continually evaluate the need for secondary fulfillment services. We continue to partner with our fulfillment provider to reduce the warehouse order turn-around time for processing and shipping orders. In 2013, approximately 98% of all ready-to-go customer initial orders were shipped within three business days of the date the order was received. Additionally, approximately 97% of all frozen customer initial orders were shipped within four business days of the date the order was received. We can also deliver to approximately 99% of the domestic population within five business days using standard ground transportation. 9 Table of Contents Direct customers are not charged for their orders until the ordered product is shipped. We do not charge customers for shipping and handling on Auto-Delivery food orders provided customers take receipt of their second order. If a customer cancels before receipt of a second order, the customer will be charged for shipping and the difference in pricing for an Auto-Delivery order versus a non Auto-Delivery order. Product Development All of our foods and supplements are currently outsourced from more than 30 manufacturers or vendors. We have entered into supply agreements with some of these food vendors. Several of these agreements provide for annual pricing, annual purchase obligations, as well as exclusivity in the production of certain products, with terms of five years or less. One agreement also provides for certain rebates to us if certain volume thresholds are exceeded. These contracts may be terminated by us upon written notice, generally between 30 and 180 days, or under certain circumstances only upon a default of the vendor. We anticipate meeting all annual purchase obligations. In 2013, approximately 14% and 12%, respectively, of inventory purchases were from two vendors. We have supply arrangements with these vendors that require us to make certain minimum purchases. In 2012, these vendors supplied approximately 17% and 13%, respectively, of inventory purchases and in 2011, approximately 16% and 15%, respectively, of inventory purchases. Additionally, we were dependent on one frozen food vendor for less than 20% of our food costs in 2011. We had a supply agreement with this vendor that expired in November 2011, and we have found other frozen food supply options to replace this vendor. Our product development team uses a number of sources – customer feedback, market trends, nutrition science, and breakthroughs in food technology – to create new ideas for our program. New foods are created to enhance the variety of our current offerings or to support the efforts of creating a new program. Typically, concepts are formulated in our test kitchen to meet our stringent demands for nutrition and stability. We then contract with food manufacturers who further develop viable new products based on our specifications. Alternatively, food manufacturers may suggest items. Regardless of a given food item’s pathway through development, that food is evaluated for nutrition, compliance with our program, taste (using testing panels), and cost considerations. The number of stock keeping units, or SKUs, we introduce each year varies depending on whether we are introducing a new program or simply updating an existing one. Our Customers We offer weight loss programs designed for women, men, seniors as well as people with type 2 diabetes who want to lose weight. Based on our customer research, our typical customer is female, approximately 50 years of age and weighs approximately 187 pounds. We believe that, on average, our customers want to lose approximately 44 pounds over a period of time. Additionally, based on our customer research, we believe our typical customers tend to stay on our program for 11 to 12 weeks, lose 1.0 to 2.0 pounds per week and have tried other popular diet programs. We believe that this research indicates a willingness to refer our program to others and that our customers value the following Nutrisystem program attributes: • effective weight loss; • direct delivery to their door; • easy to follow and stay on the program; • food can be easily prepared in minutes; • wide variety of food; and • they do not feel hungry while on the program. 10 Table of Contents Information Systems Our ecommerce and community websites, both of which are based primarily on third party software customized to meet our business needs, are each hosted in a top tier, co-location facility. These facilities provide redundant network connections, physical and fire security and diesel generated power back up for the equipment upon which our websites rely and are intended to provide an uninterruptible power supply. Our servers and our network are monitored 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We use a variety of security techniques to protect our confidential customer data. When our customers place an order or access their account information, we secure that transaction by using some of the best available encryption technologies, including secure sockets layer, or SSL. Our customer data is protected against unauthorized access by security measures and we engage a variety of industry leading technology providers including VeriSign, CyberSource and SecureWorks to further ensure the security of our credit card transactions and the safety of our customers’ personal information. Intellectual Property We own numerous domestic and international trademarks and other proprietary rights that are important to our business. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are used in the regular course of trade and/or their registrations are properly maintained. We believe the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets is important to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on a combination of watch services and trademark, copyright, patent, trade dress and trade secret laws, and through the domain name dispute resolution system. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 430 employees and consider our relations with these employees to be good. Seasonality Typically in the weight loss industry, revenue is strongest in the first calendar quarter and lowest in the fourth quarter. We believe our business experiences seasonality, driven primarily by the predisposition of dieters to initiate a diet at certain times of the year and the placement of our advertising is based on the price and availability of certain media at such times. Available Information All periodic and current reports, registration statements, code of conduct and other material that we are required to file with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our investor relations page at www.nutrisystem.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report. The public may also read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file such information electronically with the SEC. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Company The Company’s current executive officers and their respective ages and positions are as follows: Name Age Position Dawn M. Zier 48 President and Chief Executive Officer Michael P. Monahan 41 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Keira Krausz 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Dawn M. Zier has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since November 2012. Before joining us, Ms. Zier served as the President of International at RDA Holding Co., the holding company and parent of The Reader’s Digest Association, Inc., a global media and direct marketing company (the “Reader’s Digest Association”), since April 2011, as an Executive Vice President of the Reader’s Digest Association since February 2011 and as President, Europe of the Reader’s Digest Association since October 2009. Prior to serving in these roles, Ms. Zier served as the President of Global Consumer Marketing for the Reader’s Digest Association from June 2008 to October 2009 and as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Direct Holdings U.S. Corp., a marketer of audio and video products and at such time a subsidiary of the Reader’s Digest Association, from June 2009 to October 2009. From August 2005 to June 2008, Ms. Zier served as the President of North American Consumer Marketing for the Reader’s Digest Association. Michael P. Monahan has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2013. Prior to joining us, Mr. Monahan served as the Chief Financial Officer of PetroChoice Holdings, Inc., a privately-held distributor of industrial, commercial and passenger car lubricants since January 2009. From April 2006 through January 2009, Mr. Monahan served as our Vice President of Finance. Prior to that, Mr. Monahan held positions with Exelon Corporation, Accenture and Arthur Andersen LLP. Keira Krausz has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since February 2013. Prior to joining us, Ms. Krausz served as head of new business development for Animated Storyboards, a global independent provider of television test spots to the advertising industry, from April 2012 to January 2013. Prior to that, Ms. Krausz served as Vice President of Marketing for QSP, Inc., a subsidiary of Time, Inc. from 2005 until March 2012 as QSP was sold. Ms. Krausz started her career at Reader’s Digest Association in 1992, and held a number of progressively-responsible positions in product management, marketing, and business management, ultimately ascending to Vice President, Marketing and General Manager, of Reader’s Digest Association’s Books & Music Business. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks and uncertainties when reading this Annual Report. If any of the events described below actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Business Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select effective markets and media in which to advertise. Our marketing expenditures were $95.8 million, $111.1 million and $110.9 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our brand and our program; • identify the most effective and efficient levels of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; • determine the appropriate creative messages and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media) in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs; • acquire cost-effective national television advertising; • select the most effective markets, media and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; and • convert consumer inquiries into actual orders. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of brand name and program awareness. We may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis whereby our customer acquisition costs may exceed the contribution profit generated from each additional customer. Our sales may be adversely impacted by the health and stability of the general economy. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, such as a recession or prolonged economic slowdown, may reduce the demand for our products and otherwise adversely affect our sales. For example, economic forces, including general economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in disposable consumer income and/or reductions in discretionary spending, may cause consumers to defer purchases of our program which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins, and/or our overall financial condition and operating results. We rely on third parties to provide us with adequate food supply, freight and fulfillment and Internet and networking services, the loss of any of which could cause our revenue, earnings or reputation to suffer. Food Manufacturers. We rely solely on third party manufacturers to supply all of the food and other products we sell. In 2013, approximately 14% and 12%, respectively, of inventory purchases were from two vendors. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantity, quality and variety of food and other products in a timely and low-cost manner from our manufacturers, we will be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders in a timely manner, which may cause us to lose revenue and market share or incur higher costs, as well as damage the value of the Nutrisystem brand. 13 Table of Contents Freight and Fulfillment. In 2013, more than 95% of our orders were shipped by one third party provider and 100% of our order fulfillment was handled by one third party provider. Should these providers be unable to service our needs for even a short duration, our revenue and business could be harmed. Additionally, the cost and time associated with replacing these providers on short notice would add to our costs. Any replacement fulfillment provider would also require startup time, which could cause us to lose sales and market share. Internet and Networking. Our business also depends on a number of third parties for Internet access and networking, and we have limited control over these third parties. Should our network connections go down, our ability to fulfill orders would be delayed. Further, if our website or call center become unavailable for a noticeable period of time due to Internet or communication failures, our business could be adversely affected, including harm to our brand and loss of sales. Therefore, we are dependent on maintaining good relationships with these third parties. The services we require from these parties may be disrupted by a number of factors associated with their businesses, including the following: • labor disruptions; • delivery problems; • financial condition or results of operations; • internal inefficiencies; • equipment failure; • natural or man-made disasters; and • with respect to our food suppliers, shortages of ingredients or United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) or United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) compliance issues. We may be subject to claims that our personnel are unqualified to provide proper weight loss advice. Some of our counselors for our weight management program do not have extensive training or certification in nutrition, diet or health fields and have only undergone the training they receive from us. We may be subject to claims from our customers alleging that our personnel lack the qualifications necessary to provide proper advice regarding weight loss and related topics. We may also be subject to claims that our personnel have provided inappropriate advice or have inappropriately referred or failed to refer customers to health care providers for matters other than weight loss. Such claims could result in lawsuits, damage to our reputation and divert management’s attention from our business, which would adversely affect our business. We may be subject to health or advertising related claims from our customers. Our weight loss program does not include medical treatment or medical advice, and we do not engage physicians or nurses to monitor the progress of our customers. Many people who are overweight suffer from other physical conditions, and our target consumers could be considered a high-risk population. A customer who experiences health problems could allege or bring a lawsuit against us on the basis that those problems were caused or worsened by participating in our weight management program. For example, our predecessor businesses suffered substantial losses due to health-related claims and related publicity. Further, customers who allege that they were deceived by any statements that we made in advertising or labeling could bring a lawsuit against us under consumer protection laws. Currently, we are neither subject to any such allegations nor have we been named in any such litigation. If we were subject to any such claims, while we would defend ourselves against such claims, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in our defense. Also, defending ourselves against such claims, regardless of their merit and ultimate outcome, would likely be lengthy and costly, and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our general liability insurance may not cover claims of these types. 14 Table of Contents The weight management industry is highly competitive. If any of our competitors or a new entrant into the market with significant resources pursues a weight management program similar to ours, our business could be significantly affected. Competition is intense in the weight management industry and we must remain competitive in the areas of program efficacy, price, taste, customer service and brand recognition. Our competitors include companies selling pharmaceutical products and weight loss programs, as well as a wide variety of diet foods and meal replacement bars and shakes, appetite suppressants and nutritional supplements. Some of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater resources. Our business could be adversely affected if someone with significant resources decided to imitate our weight management program. For example, if a major supplier of pre-packaged foods decided to enter this market and made a substantial investment of resources in advertising and training diet counselors, our business could be significantly affected. Any increased competition from new entrants into our industry or any increased success by existing competition could result in reductions in our sales or prices, or both, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on certain third party agreements for a percentage of revenue. We have contractual agreements with certain third party retailers. Under the agreements, these third parties control when and how often our products and services are offered and we are not guaranteed any minimum level of sales or transactions. Additionally, some agreements contain exclusive rights in specified locations to promote our products during the contract term and for a specified period thereafter. If any third party elects not to renew their agreement with us or reduces the promotion of our products, our revenues will suffer. Additionally, in certain instances, we could be prohibited from selling our products through competitors of these third parties for a specified time after the termination of the agreements. New weight loss products or services may put us at a competitive disadvantage. On an ongoing basis, many existing and potential providers of weight loss solutions, including many pharmaceutical firms with significantly greater financial and operating resources than we have, are developing new products and services. The creation of a weight loss solution, such as a drug therapy, that is perceived to be safe, effective and “easier” than a portion-controlled meal plan would put us at a disadvantage in the marketplace and our results of operations could be negatively affected. We may be subject to litigation from our competitors. Our competitors may pursue litigation against us based on our advertising or other marketing practices regardless of its merit and chances of success, especially if we engage in competitive advertising, which includes advertising that directly or indirectly mentions a competitor or a competitor’s weight loss program in comparison to our program. While we would defend ourselves against any such claims, our defense may ultimately be unsuccessful. Also, defending against such claims, regardless of their merit and ultimate outcome, may be lengthy and costly, strain our resources and divert management’s attention from their core responsibilities, which would have a negative impact on our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. Unauthorized users who penetrate our information security could misappropriate proprietary or customer information or data or cause interruptions to the product offerings on our website. As a result, it may become necessary to expend significant additional amounts of capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by unauthorized users. These expenditures, however, may not prove to be a timely remedy against unauthorized users who are able to penetrate our information security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could adversely affect our computer systems and, in turn, harm our business. 15 Table of Contents A significant number of states require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personal financial account or other information. Additional states and governmental entities are considering such “notice” laws. In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported. If we experience a security breach and such notice or public disclosure is required in the future, our reputation and our business may be harmed. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and utilize proprietary and customer information and data. Privacy concerns among prospective and existing customers regarding our use of such information or data collected on our website or through our services and products, such as weight management information, financial data, email addresses and home addresses, could keep them from using our website or purchasing our services or products. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information and data. Businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for their use and handling of such information and data. Currently, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their credit cards directly for fees charged by us. We rely on third party software products to secure our credit card transactions. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent payment transactions and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches or changes in industry standards or regulations may adversely affect our business and operating results. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results which may cause our stock price to be volatile. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our business is seasonal, with revenues generally stronger in the first quarter and weaker in the fourth quarter. The market price of our common stock is subject to fluctuations in response to our operating results, general trends in the weight loss industry, announcements by our competitors, our ability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations, recommendations by securities analysts, the condition of the financial markets and other factors. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and cause it to fluctuate significantly. Future acquisitions and the pursuit of new business opportunities present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals of any acquisition or new business. A component of our growth strategy may be to acquire existing businesses or pursue other business opportunities in the market for weight management and fitness products and services. Even if we succeed in acquiring or building such businesses, we will face a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties in integrating newly acquired or newly started businesses into existing operations, which may result in increasing operating costs that would adversely affect our operating income and earnings; • the risk that our current and planned facilities, information systems, personnel and controls will not be adequate to support our future operations; • diversion of management time and capital resources from our existing businesses, which could adversely affect their performance and our operating results; • dependence on key management personnel of acquired or newly started businesses and the risk that we will be unable to integrate or retain such personnel; • the risk that the new products or services we may introduce or begin offering, whether as a result of internal expansion or business acquisitions, will not gain acceptance among consumers and existing customers; • the risk that new efforts may have a detrimental effect on our brand; • the risk that we will face competition from established or larger competitors in the new markets we may enter, which could adversely affect the financial performance of any businesses we might acquire or start; and 16 Table of Contents • the risk that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or of the commencement of any new business may not be realized, in which event we will not be able to achieve any return on our investment in that new business. Consummating these transactions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also issue additional equity in connection with these transactions, which would dilute our existing stockholders. If we do not continue to receive referrals from existing customers, our customer acquisition cost may increase. We rely on word-of-mouth advertising for a portion of our new customers. If our brand suffers or the number of customers acquired through referrals drops due to other circumstances, our costs associated with acquiring new customers and generating revenue will increase, which will, in turn, have an adverse affect on our profitability. We use third-party marketing vendors to promote our products. If the spokespersons affiliated with the third-party marketing vendors suffer adverse publicity, our revenue could be adversely affected. Our marketing strategy depends in part on celebrity spokespersons, as well as customer spokespersons, to promote our weight management program. Any of these spokespersons may become the subject of adverse news reports, negative publicity or otherwise be alienated from a segment of our customer base, whether weight loss related or not. If so, such events may reduce the effectiveness of his or her endorsement and, in turn, adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Third parties may infringe on our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We currently rely on a combination of trademark and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights, including our brand. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand, services and products could be diminished and our business may suffer. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our brand and other intellectual property could be unsuccessful and expensive and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property, especially in Internet-related businesses, are uncertain and evolving. We cannot assure you that these evolving legal standards will sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights in the future. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims. Third parties may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, if we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to pay damages, stop selling the service or product or stop using the software, technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing service, product, software, technology or content or develop alternative non-infringing services, products, software, technology or content. If we cannot license on reasonable terms, develop alternatives or stop using the service, product, software, technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service and product offerings. Any of these results could reduce our revenues and our ability to compete effectively, increase our costs or harm our business. 17 Table of Contents Our credit agreement, as amended, contains financial and other covenants. The failure to comply with such covenants could have an adverse effect on us. Our credit agreement, as amended, contains certain financial and other covenants including a minimum consolidated fixed charge ratio, a minimum consolidated tangible net worth and a minimum consolidated liquidity ratio, and includes limitations on, among other things, capital expenditures, additional indebtedness, acquisitions, stock repurchases and restrictions on paying dividends in certain circumstances. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit agreement, as amended, may result in an event of default under the agreement. We are dependent on our key executive officers for future success. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers and we are unable to timely retain a qualified replacement, our business could be harmed. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our key executive officers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We have not obtained life insurance on any key executive officers. If any key executive officers left us or were seriously injured and became unable to work, our business could be harmed. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may deter or delay an acquisition of us or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition or a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation (as amended) may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us, even if our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation (as amended) permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be junior to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. The issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our operating results. Our program features pre-packaged food selections, which we believe offer convenience and value to our customers. Our continued success depends, to a large degree, upon the continued popularity of our program versus various other weight loss, weight management and fitness regimens, such as low carbohydrate diets, appetite suppressants and diets featured in the published media. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences away from our pre-packaged food and support and counseling services, and any failure to provide innovative responses to these changes, may have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. Our success is also dependent on our food innovation including maintaining a robust array of food items and improving the quality of existing items. If we do not continually expand our food items or provide customers with items that are desirable in taste and quality, our business could be harmed. The weight loss industry is subject to adverse publicity, which could harm our business. The weight loss industry receives adverse publicity from time to time, and the occurrence of such publicity could harm us, even if the adverse publicity is not directly related to us. In the early 1990s, our predecessor 18 Table of Contents businesses were subject to extremely damaging adverse publicity relating to a large number of lawsuits alleging that the Nutrisystem® weight loss program in use at that time led to gall bladder disease. This publicity was a factor that contributed to the bankruptcy of our predecessor businesses in 1993. More recently, our predecessor businesses were severely impacted by significant litigation and damaging publicity related to their customers’ use of fen-phen as an appetite suppressant, which the FDA ordered withdrawn from the market in September 1997. The significant decline in business resulting from the fen-phen problems caused our predecessor businesses to close all of their company-owned weight loss centers. Congressional hearings about practices in the weight loss industry have also resulted in adverse publicity and a consequent decline in the revenue of weight loss businesses. Future research reports or publicity that is perceived as unfavorable or that question certain weight loss programs, products or methods could result in a decline in our revenue. Because of our dependence on consumer perceptions, adverse publicity associated with illness or other undesirable effects resulting from the consumption of our products or similar products by competitors, whether or not accurate, could also damage customer confidence in our weight loss program and result in a decline in revenue. Adverse publicity could arise even if the unfavorable effects associated with weight loss products or services resulted from the user’s failure to use such products or services appropriately. Our industry is subject to governmental regulation that could increase in severity and hurt results of operations. Our industry is subject to federal, state and other governmental regulation. Certain federal and state agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), regulate and enforce such laws relating to advertising, disclosures to consumers, privacy, consumer pricing and billing arrangements and other consumer protection matters. A determination by a federal or state agency, or a court, that any of our practices do not meet existing or new laws or regulations could result in liability, adverse publicity, and restrictions of our business operations. Some advertising practices in the weight loss industry have led to investigations from time to time by the FTC and other governmental agencies. Many companies in the weight loss industry, including our predecessor businesses, have entered into consent decrees with the FTC relating to weight loss claims and other advertising practices. In October 2009, the FTC published its revised Guides concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising which now requires us to use a statement as to what the typical weight loss a customer can expect to achieve on our program when using a customer’s weight loss testimonial in advertising. Federal and state regulation of advertising practices generally, and in the weight loss industry in particular, may increase in scope or severity in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Other aspects of our industry are also subject to government regulation. For example, the labeling and distribution of food products are subject to strict USDA and FDA requirements and food manufacturers are subject to rigorous inspection and other requirements of the USDA and FDA, and companies operating in foreign markets must comply with those countries’ requirements for proper labeling, controls on hygiene, food preparation and other matters. If federal, state, local or foreign regulation of our industry increases for any reason, then we may be required to incur significant expenses, as well as modify our operations to comply with new regulatory requirements, which could harm our operating results. Additionally, remedies available in any potential administrative or regulatory actions may include product recalls and requiring us to refund amounts paid by all affected customers or pay other damages, which could be substantial. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications, operations or commerce over the Internet such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, are more prevalent and remain unsettled. If we are required to comply with new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these laws, regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected. Future laws or regulations, including laws or regulations affecting our marketing and advertising practices, relations with consumers, employees, service providers, or our services and products, may have an adverse impact on us. 19 Table of Contents The sale of ingested products involves product liability and other risks. Like other distributors of products that are ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products results in illness or injury. The foods that we resell in the U.S. are subject to laws and regulations, including those administered by the USDA and FDA that establish manufacturing practices and quality standards for food products. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business as existing insurance coverage may not be adequate. Distributors of weight loss food products, vitamins, nutritional supplements and minerals, including our predecessor businesses, have been named as defendants in product liability lawsuits from time to time. The successful assertion or settlement of an uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims or a claim exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage would harm us by adding costs to the business and by diverting the attention of senior management from the operation of the business. We may also be subject to claims that our products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled, include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings covering interactions with other substances. Product liability litigation, even if not meritorious, is very expensive and could also entail adverse publicity for us and reduce our revenue. In addition, the products we distribute, or certain components of those products, may be subject to product recalls or other deficiencies. Any negative publicity associated with these actions would adversely affect our brand and may result in decreased product sales and, as a result, lower revenues and profits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 