ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause the Company’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and the Company cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s businesses or financial performance. Vectren is a holding company, and its assets consist primarily of investments in its subsidiaries. Dividends on Vectren’s common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and cash flow of its subsidiaries, principally Utility Holdings and Enterprises, and the distribution or other payment of earnings from those entities to Vectren. Should the earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, or cash flow of, or legal requirements applicable to them restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the Company, its ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited and its stock price could be adversely affected. Vectren’s results of operations, future growth, and earnings and dividend goals also will depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. Additionally, certain of the Company’s lending arrangements contain restrictive c ovenants, including the maintenance of a total debt to total capitalization ratio, which could limit its ability to pay dividends. Deterioration in general economic conditions may have adverse impacts. The industries in which the Company operates and serves continue to be impacted by economic uncertainty. Economic conditions may have some negative impact on both gas and electric large customers and wholesale power sales. This impact may continue to include volatility and unpredictability in the demand for natural gas and electricity, tempered growth strategies, significant conservation measures, and perhaps even further plant closures or bankruptcies. Economic conditions may also cause reductions in residential and commercial customer counts and lower Company revenues. It is also possible that an uncertain economy could continue to affect costs including pension costs, interest costs, and uncollectible accounts expense. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for products and services offered by nonutility operations and therefore lower revenues for those products and services. The current economic conditions may continue to have some negative impact on utility industry spending for construction projects, demand for natural gas and coal, and spending on performance contracting and renewable energy expansion. It is also possible that if the current conditions continue, they could lead to further reductions in the value of certain nonutility real estate and other legacy investments. -13- Table of Contents Financial market volatility could have adverse impacts. The capital and credit markets may experience volatility and disruption. If market disruption and volatility occurs, there can be no assurance that the Company, or its unconsolidated affiliates, will not experience adverse effects, which may be material. These effects may include, but are not limited to, difficulties in accessing the short and long-term debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, increased borrowing costs associated with current short-term debt obligations, higher interest rates in future financings, and a smaller potential pool of investors and funding sources. Finally, there is no assurance the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable. A downgrade (or negative outlook) in or withdrawal of Vectren’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital and its cost. The following table shows the current ratings assigned to certain outstanding debt by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s: Current Rating Standard Moody’s & Poor’s Utility Holdings and Indiana Gas senior unsecured debt A3 A- Utility Holdings commercial paper program P-2 A-2 SIGECO’s senior secured debt A1 A The current outlook of both Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s is stable and both categorize the ratings of the above securities as investment grade. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s lowest level investment grade rating is BBB- and Baa3, respectively. If the rating agencies downgrade the Company’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, or initiate negative outlooks thereon, or withdraw Vectren’s ratings or, in each case, the ratings of its subsidiaries, it may significantly limit Vectren’s access to the debt capital markets and the commercial paper market, and the Company’s borrowing costs would increase. In addition, Vectren would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Finally, there is no assurance that the Company will have access to the equity capital markets to obtain financing when necessary or desirable. Vectren’s gas and electric utility sales are concentrated in the Midwest. The operations of the Company’s regulated utilities are concentrated in central and southern Indiana and west central Ohio and are therefore impacted by changes in the Midwest economy in general and changes in particular industries concentrated in the Midwest. These industries include automotive assembly, parts and accessories, feed, flour and grain processing, metal castings, aluminum products, polycarbonate resin (Lexan®) and plastic products, gypsum products, electrical equipment, metal specialties, glass, steel finishing, pharmaceutical and nutritional products, gasoline and oil products, ethanol and coal mining. Vectren operates in an increasingly competitive industry, which may affect its future earnings. The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressure faced by electric and gas utility companies. Increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of Vectren’s earnings generally and may in the future reduce its earnings from retail electric and gas sales. Currently, several states, including Ohio, have passed legislation that allows customers to choose their electricity supplier in a competitive market. Indiana has not enacted such legislation. Ohio regulation also provides for choice of commodity providers for all gas customers. In 2003, the Company implemented this choice for its gas customers in Ohio and is currently in the second of the three phase process to exit the merchant function in i ts Ohio service territory. The state of Indiana has not adopted any regulation requiring gas choice in the Company’s Indiana service territories; however, the Company operates under approved tariffs permitting certain industrial and commercial large volume customers to choose their commodity supplier. Vectren cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. -14- Table of Contents A significant portion of Vectren’s electric utility sales are space heating and cooling. Accordingly, its operating results may fluctuate with variability of weather. Vectren’s electric utility sales are sensitive to variations in weather conditions. The Company forecasts utility sales on the basis of normal weather. Since Vectren does not have a weather-normalization mechanism for its electric operations, significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on its earnings. However, the impact of weather on the gas operations in the Company’s Indiana territories has been significantly mitigated through the implementation in 2005 of a normal temperature adjustment mechanism. Additionally, the implementation of a straight fixed variable rate design in a January 2009 PUCO order mitigates most weather risk related to Ohio residential gas sales. Risks related to the regulation of Vectren’s utility businesses, including environmental regulation, could affect the rates the Company charges its customers, its costs and its profitability. Vectren’s businesses are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local regulatory authorities and are exposed to public policy decisions that may negatively impact the Company’s earnings. In particular, Vectren is subject to regulation by the FERC, the NERC, the EPA, the IURC, and the PUCO. These authorities regulate many aspects of its transmission and distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, and safety, and its gas marketing operations involving title passage, reliability standards, and future adequacy. In addition, these regulatory agencies approve its utility-related debt and equity issuances, regulate the rates that Vectren’s utilities can charge customers, the rate of return that Vectren’s utilities are authorized to earn, and its ability to timely recover gas and fuel costs. Further, there are consumer advocates and other parties which may intervene in regulatory proceedings and affect regulatory outcomes. The Company’s ability to obtain rate increases to maintain its current authorized rates of return depends upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that Vectren will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or earn its current authorized rates of return. Vectren’s operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. These environmental regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities, and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances and waste in connection with spills, releases, and emissions of various substances in the environment. Such airborne emissions from electric generating facilities include particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx), and mercury, among others. Environmental legislation/regulation also requires that facilities, sites, and other properties associated with Vectren’s operations be operated, maintained, abandoned, and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. The Company’s current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, claims against the Company under environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs and liabilities. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated by Vectren subject to environmental regulation, its investment in environmentally compliant equipment, and the costs associated with operat ing that equipment, have increased and are expected to increase in the future. As examples of the trend toward stricter regulation, the EPA is currently reviewing/revising regulations involving fly ash disposal, cooling tower intake facilities, greenhouse gases, and airborne emissions such as SO2 and NOx. Climate change regulation could negatively impact operations. There are proposals to address global climate change that would regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases and other proposals that would mandate an investment in renewable energy sources. Any future legislative or regulatory actions taken by the EPA or other agencies to address global climate change or mandate renewable energy sources could substantially affect both the costs and operating characteristics of the Company’s fossil fuel generating plants, nonutility coal mining operations, and natural gas distribution businesses. Further, such legislation or regulatory action would likely impact the Company’s generation resource planning decisions. At this time and in the absence of final legislation or regulatory mandates, compliance costs and other effects associated with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or obtaining renewable energy sources remain uncertain. The Company has gathered preliminary estimates of the costs to control greenhouse gas emissions. A preliminary investigation demonstrated costs to comply would be significant, first with regard to operating expenses and later for capital expenditures as technology becomes available to control greenhouse gas emissions. However, these compliance cost estimates are based on highly uncertain assumptions, including allowance prices if a cap and trade approach were employed, and energy efficiency targets. -15- Table of Contents Any additional expenses or capital incurred by the Company, as it relates to complying with greenhouse gas emissions regulation or other environmental regulations, are expected to be borne by the customers in its service territories through increased rates. Increased rates have an impact on the economic health of the communities served. New regulations could also negatively impact industries in the Company’s service territory, including industries in which the Company operates. The Company is exposed to physical and financial risks related to the uncertainty of climate change. A changing climate creates uncertainty and could result in broad changes to the Company’s service territories. These impacts could include, but are not limited to, population shifts; changes in the level of annual rainfall; changes in the weather; and changes to the frequency and severity of weather events such as thunderstorms, wind, tornadoes, and ice storms that can damage infrastructure. Such changes could impact the Company in a number of ways including the number and/or type of customers in the Company’s service territories; the demand for energy resulting in the need for additional investment in generation assets or the need to retire current infrastructure that is no longer required; an increase to the cost of providing service; and an increase in the likelihood of capital expenditures to replace damaged infrastructure. To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact the Company’s revenues, costs, and capital structure and thus the need for changes to rates charged to regulated customers. Rate changes themselves can impact the economic health of the communities served and may in turn adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company may face certain regulatory and financial risks related to pipeline safety legislation. There are federal proposals currently pending that would increase pipeline operations oversight and would lead to an investment in the inspection, and where necessary, the replacement of pipeline infrastructure. At this time and in the absence of final legislation, compliance costs and other effects associated with increased pipeline safety regulations remain uncertain. However, any future legislative or regulatory actions taken to address pipeline safety could substantially affect both operating expenses and capital expenditures associated with the Company’s natural gas distribution businesses. The Company has been successful in the past recovering costs resulting from government mandates. However, if the Company is unable to recover from customers through the regulatory process all or some of these costs, including its authorized rate of return on replacement projects, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Vectren regulated distribution operations are subject to various risks. A variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems are inherent in the Company’s gas and electric distribution activities. If such events occur, they could cause substantial financial losses and result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of operations. The location of pipelines, storage facilities, and the electric grid near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject the Company to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalt ies or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Vectren’s electric operations are subject to various risks. The Company’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Such operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; and natural disasters. -16- Table of Contents The impact of MISO participation is uncertain. Since February 2002 and with the IURC’s approval, the Company has been a member of the MISO. The MISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the Midwest and maintains operational control over SIGECO’s electric transmission facilities as well as that of other Midwest utilities. As a result of MISO’s operational control over much of the Midwestern electric transmission grid, including SIGECO’s transmission facilities, SIGECO’s continued ability to import power, when necessary, and export power to the wholesale market has been, and may continue to be, impacted. The need to expend capital for improvements to the regional transmission system, both to SIGECO’s facilities as well as to those facilities of adjacent utilities, over the next several years is expected to be significant. The Company timely recovers its investment in certain new electric transmission projects that benefit the MISO infrastructure at a FERC approved rate of return. Wholesale power marketing activities may add volatility to earnings. Vectren’s regulated electric utility engages in wholesale power marketing activities that primarily involve the offering of utility-owned or contracted generation into the MISO hourly and real time markets. As part of these strategies, the Company may also execute energy contracts that are integrated with portfolio requirements around power supply and delivery. Presently, margin earned from these activities above or below $10.5 million is shared evenly with customers. These earnings from wholesale marketing activities may vary based on fluctuating prices for electricity and the amount of electric generating capacity or purchased power available beyond that needed to meet firm service requirements. In addition, this earnings sharing approach may be modified in future regulatory proceedings. Increases in the wholesale price of natural gas, coal, and electricity could reduce earnings and working capital. The Company’s regulated operations have limited exposure to commodity price risk for transactions involving purchases and sales of natural gas, coal, and purchased power for the benefit of retail customers due to current state regulations, which subject to compliance with those regulations, allow for recovery of the cost of such purchases through natural gas and fuel cost adjustment mechanisms. However, significant increases in the price of natural gas, coal, or purchased power may cause existing customers to conserve or motivate them to switch to alternate sources of energy as well as cause new home developers, builders, and new customers to select alternative sources of energy. Decreases in volumes sold could reduce earnings. The decrease would be more significant in the absence of constructive reg ulatory orders, such as those authorizing revenue decoupling, lost margin recovery, and other innovative rate designs. A decline in new customers could impede growth in future earnings. In addition, during periods when commodity prices are higher than historical levels, working capital costs could increase due to higher carrying costs of inventories and cost recovery mechanisms, and customers may have trouble paying higher bills leading to bad debt expenses. The performance of Vectren’s nonutility businesses is subject to certain risks. Execution of the Company’s nonutility business strategies and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities in the nonutility business area is subject to a number of risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the effects of weather; failure of installed performance contracting products to operate as planned; failure to properly estimate the cost to construct projects; failure to develop or obtain gas storage field and mining property; potential legislation that may limit CO2 and other greenhouse gases emissions; creditworthiness of customers and joint venture partners; changes in federal, state or local legal requirements, such as changes in tax laws or rates; and changing market conditions. Vectren’s nonutility businesses support its regulated utilities pursuant to service contracts by providing natural gas supply services, coal, and infrastructure services. In most instances, Vectren’s ability to maintain these service contracts depends upon regulatory discretion and negotiation with interveners, and there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain future service contracts, or that existing arrangements will not be revisited. Coal mining operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors. The success of coal mining operations is predicated on the ability to fully access coal at company-owned mines; to operate owned mines in accordance with MSHA guidelines and regulations, recent interpretations of those guidelines and regulations, and any new guidelines or regulations that could result from the recent mining incidents at coal mines of other companies and to respond to more frequent and broader inspections; to negotiate and execute new sales contracts; and to manage production and production costs and other risks in response to changes in demand. Other risks, which could adversely impact operating results, include but are not limited to: market demand for coal; geologic, equipment, and operational risks; supplier and contract miner performance; the availability of miners, key equipment and commodities; availability of transportation; and the ability to access/replace coal reserves. -17- Table of Contents In addition, coal mining operations have exposure to coal commodity prices. If coal commodity prices change in a direction or manner that is not anticipated, or if the forecasted sales transactions do not occur, losses may result. Although forecasted sales are hedged with owned coal inventory and known reserves, all exposure to both short and long-term coal price volatility is not hedged. Therefore, fluctuating coal prices are likely to cause the Company’s net income to be volatile. The success of Vectren’s natural gas marketing strategies is affected by a number of factors. ProLiance, and to a lesser extent the Company’s nonutility gas retail supply operations, rely on long-term firm transportation and storage contracts with pipeline companies to deliver natural gas to its customer base. Those contracts are optimized by balancing physical and financial markets and summer and winter time horizons. Therefore, recovery of the these contracts’ fixed costs is dependent on a number of factors, including the health of the economy, weather, and changes in the availability and location of natural gas supply and related transmission assets, among others. A significant decline in optimization opportunities or a deterioration of the customer base may result in the inability to fully recover these fixed price obligations. Recent market conditions have compressed optimization opportunities, and ProLiance has operated at a loss. If current market conditions continue, resulting in continued depressed asset optimization opportunities, it is expected that ProLiance will experience a loss in 2011. Losses could continue in future years should ProLiance be unable to adjust to the current market conditions or be unsuccessful in renegotiating its transportation and storage contracts over time. In addition to physical and financial contracts executed for optimization opportunities, forward contracts and from time to time option contracts are executed to meet forecasted customer demand that may or may not occur and to hedge commodity price risk and basis risk. If the value of these contracts changes in a direction or manner that is not anticipated, or if the forecasted sales transactions do not occur, losses may result. These contracts include fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, and/or financial forwards, futures, swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Therefore, fluctuating natural gas prices are likely to cause the Company’s net income to be volatile. Vectren’s nonutility group competes with larger energy providers, which may limit its ability to grow its business. Competitors for Vectren’s nonutility businesses include regional, national and global companies. Many of Vectren’s competitors are well-established and have larger and more developed networks and systems, greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. This competition, and the addition of any new competitors, could negatively impact the financial performance of the nonutility group and the Company’s ability to grow its nonutility businesses. Increased derivative regulation could impact results. The Company, as well as ProLiance, uses natural gas derivative instruments in conjunction with energy marketing and procurement activities. The Company also uses interest rate derivative instruments to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations associated with anticipated debt issuances. In July 2010, legislation regulating the use of derivative instruments was signed into law. These new regulations include, but are not limited to, a requirement that certain transactions be cleared on exchanges and a requirement to post cash collateral for certain transactions. Depending on the regulations adopted by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other agencies, the Company and ProLiance could be required to post additional collateral with dealer counterparties for commitments and interest rate derivative transactions. Requirements to post collateral could limit cash for investment and for other corporate purposes or could increase debt levels. In addition, a requirement for counterparties to post collateral could result in additional costs associated with executing transactions, thereby decre asing profitability. An increased collateral requirement could also reduce the Company’s and ProLiance’s ability to execute derivative transactions to reduce commodity price and interest rate uncertainty and to protect cash flows. The law provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users. Significant rule-making by numerous governmental agencies, particularly the CFTC, must be adopted in the near term so that the restrictions, limitations, and requirements contemplated by the new law can be implemented. The Company and ProLiance will continue to evaluate the impact as these rules become available and whether any exemption will apply to the Company’s and ProLiance’s use of derivative instruments. -18- Table of Contents Vectren’s subsidiaries have performance and warranty obligations, some of which are guaranteed by Vectren. In the normal course of business, subsidiaries of Vectren issue performance bonds and other forms of assurance that commit them to timely install infrastructure, operate facilities, pay vendors or subcontractors, and/or support warranty obligations. Vectren Corporation, as the parent company, will from time to time guarantee its subsidiaries’ commitments. These guarantees do not represent incremental consolidated obligations; rather, they represent parental guarantees of subsidiary obligations in order to allow those subsidiaries the flexibility to conduct business without posting other forms of collateral. The Company has not been called upon to satisfy any obligations pursuant to these parental guarantees. From time to time, Vectren is subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. From time to time, the Company, as well as its equity investees such as ProLiance, may be subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings including matters involving compliance with state and federal laws, regulations or other matters. There can be no assurance that the outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on Vectren’s business, prospects, results of operations, or financial condition. The investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could impact Vectren’s liquidity and results of operations. The costs associated with the Company’s retirement plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets; discount rates; the level of interest rates used to measure funding levels; changes in actuarial assumptions; future government regulation; and Company contributions. In addition, the Company could be required to provide for significant funding of these defined benefit pension plans. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows for other purposes and could negatively affect results of operations. Catastrophic events could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, ice storms, tornados, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences could adversely affect Vectren’s facilities, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Workforce risks could affect Vectren’s financial results. The Company is subject to various workforce risks, including but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; that it will be unable to react to a pandemic illness; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 