D. Risk Factors As i-CABLE is subject to various changing regulatory, competitive, economic, political and social risks and conditions, investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this annual report, before you decide whether to buy our ordinary shares or ADSs. We have effectuated the delisting of our ADSs from Nasdaq and may terminate the registration of our securities with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the future and this may adversely affect our share price. On May 15, 2007, we announced that our board of directors has approved the delisting of our ADSs from Nasdaq. The delisting was sought due to limited trading volume of the ADSs and the time and cost of maintaining a listing in the United States. On May 29, 2007, we filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 25 to effectuate the delisting from Nasdaq as from June 8, 2007. Since the delisting, our ADRs have been traded in the over-the-counter markets, and the Bank of New York Mellon has continued to act as our ADR depositary pursuant to the existing Deposit Agreement. We have not arranged for the listing of our ADSs or ordinary shares on another national securities exchange in the United States. We plan to maintain our ADR program in the United States, but the liquidity of our ADSs may be adversely affected by their delisting from Nasdaq. Further, where circumstances permit, we may terminate our registration as a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act. Deregistration will eliminate our obligation to file annual reports on Form 20-F and current reports on Form 6-K. Accordingly, in the event of a deregistration, ADR holders may receive less details concerning our principal shareholders, directors and executive officers, compensation paid to our executives, audited financial statements and certain relationships in related transactions between related parties, which under certain circumstances could better enable the ADR holders to assess our financial operations and policies. The delisting of our ADSs from Nasdaq and the possible termination of our registration as a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act may have a negative impact on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares. Any significant change in our ability to pay dividends or our dividend policy may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Although we have declared and paid dividends in respect of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, there can be no assurance that we will declare and pay dividends in the future or that we will maintain our current dividend policy. Any significant change in our ability to pay a dividend or our dividend policy may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We reported net losses in previous years and we may incur net losses in the future. We reported net losses for each year from 1993 when we began our pay-TV operation until 1999. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated losses were HK$4,606 million. Although we have recorded net profits for each year since 2000, we cannot assure you that we will remain profitable. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend on the strength of our existing business and the competitiveness of our existing and new products and services, our program acquisition costs which are being driven up by competition, as well as general market conditions. If we incur net losses in the future, our financing needs may increase, we may not be able to pay dividends in the future and the market price of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may be adversely affected. We may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments or our customers’ demand for new products and services. This may adversely affect our financial condition. The markets for pay-TV, Internet access services and related services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, industry standards, subscriber needs and new products and services. The emerging nature of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require us to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our network, Internet content and consumer services, especially in response to our competitors’ offerings. We do not intend to conduct our own research and development of new technologies. 9 Table of Contents We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively or sufficiently to these developments. In addition, services or technologies developed by competitors may render our services or technologies undesirable or obsolete. Some of our competitors offer broadband Internet access service with bandwidth advantage over our broadband Internet access service in the residential market. Furthermore, changing our services in response to market demand may require the adoption of new technologies that could render many of our assets less competitive or obsolete. Even if we respond successfully to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the adoption and integration of new technology may require substantial capital expenditures. This may adversely affect our financial condition. We may not be successful in modifying our network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, our new products and services may contain design flaws or other defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Illegal viewing activities may affect our pay-TV subscriber growth and subscription revenue. Our pay-TV business is dependent upon subscription revenue. We are aware that some viewers in Hong Kong use unauthorized pay-TV decoders to receive our pay-TV service illegally. Although we have migrated our transmissions from analog to digital platforms in order to better control and limit illegal viewing activities, manufacturers or vendors of unauthorized pay-TV decoders have so far been able to repeatedly overcome our various digital encryption methods. Such illegal activities have continued and we are aware that pirated digital set-top-boxes are available in the market. In addition, Internet video streaming on peer to peer platform has surfaced as another form of illegal viewing. We have been deploying countermeasures to combat these activities. If we fail to deploy appropriate and timely countermeasures in response to these activities, illegal viewing activities may grow. Such illegal viewing activities will adversely affect the growth of our pay-TV subscriber base and our subscription revenue. The loss of key employees, including senior management, and our failure to recruit qualified personnel as needed could weaken our strategic, technological and operational expertise, delay the introduction of new products and services and lower the quality of our services. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees, including our senior management. Our key employees may be recruited by our competitors. This could hinder the introduction of new products and services as planned. Our operations could suffer with the loss of any member of our senior management team or any key employee. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for strategic planning, programming and enhanced services, including Internet, marketing and network operations. The competition for qualified personnel in the Internet services and pay-TV industry may increase in the future, making it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel in the Internet services and pay-TV industry. Our programming costs are substantial and may increase, which could reduce our margins if we are unable to pass on any such increase to our subscribers. The growth and revenues for our pay-TV services depend on our ability to produce or purchase programming that is affordable to our subscribers. The cost of some of our acquired programming has increased in the past and may increase substantially in the future if competition in the pay-TV and TV services markets intensifies. If we are not able to pass on programming cost increases to our subscribers, our revenues, cash flow and operating margins may be reduced. In particular, we broadcast various sports events on our pay-TV platform. We currently have the exclusive right to broadcast in Hong Kong some major European soccer events such as the Spanish and German soccer leagues and the prestigious U.S. PGA Golf Tour. We have also secured broadcasting rights for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, the 2010 Winter Olympics and the 2012 Summer Olympics. We intend to continue to acquire new rights to other sports programming. However, the acquisition costs for the exclusive right to broadcast these sports events are substantial and may increase significantly in the future. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to acquire or retain the right to broadcast certain content. Our pay-TV service includes broadcasting of content that we acquire from third parties, which may not be available at all times on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In particular, we intend to retain or acquire the exclusive right to broadcast various soccer and other sports events in Hong Kong. However, the right to broadcast such events is highly competitive. For instance, the English Premier League had been the most popular soccer event on our platform until our exclusive right to broadcast the English Premier League in Hong Kong expired in May 2007. Due to the high costs of the telecasting rights for the three seasons spanning from August 2007 through May 2010, we were not able to renew our right to broadcast the English Premier League, and the event is exclusively carried by our key competitor, PCCW Limited (“PCCW”). We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our right to broadcast in Hong Kong certain content on an exclusive basis, or at all. In the event that our right to broadcast certain content is terminated, we may be unable to acquire or produce substitute content to offset the effect of the loss of the right to broadcast certain content on our pay-TV platform. In the event that we retain certain content on terms and conditions significantly different from prior agreements, our programming costs and/or pay-TV subscription revenues may be adversely affected. Any loss of content or inability to obtain the rights to provide suitable content could adversely affect the quality of our pay-TV service, and our pay-TV revenue may be adversely affected as a result. Even if we are able to acquire the right to broadcast certain content, the acquisition costs may be so high that our profitability will be adversely affected. New digital pay-TV and high definition channels may add to our programming costs and may adversely affect our profitability. Digital broadcasting allows the compression of pay-TV signals, which increases our effective channel capacity. We intend to utilize this additional capacity by increasing the number of pay-TV channels offered on our digital platform. We now offer 103 channels with 69 channels in our basic package. During 2007, a total of five new channels were added to our digital platform. The channels were either included in the basic package or were part of our mini packages. We may need to launch new channels in high definition TV format in response to the changes of market conditions. We incur significant costs for producing or acquiring content for these channels. If we are unable to pass on these costs to our pay-TV subscribers, our profitability may be adversely affected. Demand for our broadband Internet access service may continue to decline. Despite an increase of 40% in the operating profit in our broadband Internet access service, or broadband service, to HK$180 million in 2007 from HK$129 million in 2006, our broadband Internet subscriber base decreased by 7% to 306,000 in 2007 from 328,000 in 2006, and the revenues in the broadband sector decreased by 1% to HK$588 million in 2007 from HK$596 million in 2006. This is mainly because we are under pressure as our competitors roll out higher bandwidth services, while the overall residential broadband market has flattened out. The demand for our broadband Internet access service may continue to decline and adversely affect our revenues. Critical issues concerning the use of the Internet, including security, reliability, cost, ease of access and quality of service, are likely to continue to affect future demand for our broadband service. The competitive pressures to provide low-cost broadband access may impact our ability to charge subscription fees at favorable rates. If the demand for our broadband access service continues to decline, our revenues in the broadband sector may decrease and we may be unable to charge subscription fees at rates that would permit us to maintain or increase the profitability of our broadband business. 11 Table of Contents The competition we face from other TV broadcasters and Internet service providers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. New technologies and services introduced by our competitors may lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers and a decline in our market share in the pay-TV market or in the market of Internet access and related services. Our pay-TV or broadband revenue may decrease as a result of increased competition arising from the following: • The markets for pay-TV, Internet access and related services in Hong Kong have become more competitive as operators continue to roll out bundled voice, data and TV service. In early 2004, PCCW began to roll out bundled packages with aggressive marketing and pricing strategies. In response, we rolled out a bundled pay-TV and broadband package in May 2004 and pay-TV and broadband packages that are bundled with local VoIP service in 2005. The VoIP service is provided by Wharf T&T, one of our affiliates, and enables subscribers to make and receive calls using traditional telephone handsets connected to a voice-enabled cable modem. In June 2005, PCCW completed the acquisition of a mobile phone service provider. Since the acquisition, PCCW has marketed voice, data or TV services that are bundled with the mobile phone service. Since we do not presently operate any mobile phone service, we are not able to provide any pay TV or broadband service that are bundled with mobile phone service without cooperating with a local mobile phone service provider. Our competitors may in the future become even more aggressive in pricing their services. This may lead us to further reduce our prices for similar services, causing our revenue to decline. This high level of competition may also result in a loss of our subscribers and may significantly increase our programming costs, resulting in a decrease in our cash flow and operating margin. • On December 31, 2007, Hong Kong’s free-to-air networks, Asia Television Limited and Television Broadcasts Limited, commonly known as ATV and TVB, launched their digital terrestrial TV, or DTT, service to cover selected geographical areas. ATV and TVB are expected to expand their coverage to cover at least 75% of population by the end of 2008. Subject to further market and technical studies, the Government aims to switch off analog broadcasting by 2012. ATV and TVB’s DTT services include a hybrid digital service of HDTV and multi-channel broadcasting. The addition of free-to-air DTT TV channels in Hong Kong may adversely affect our pay-TV business. • Two pay-TV services were launched during the third quarter of 2003. They are operated by the incumbent telecommunications service provider, PCCW, and another telecommunications service provider, Hong Kong Broadband Network. In February 2004, Galaxy Satellite Broadcasting Limited launched its pay-TV service (currently named TVB Pay Vision and 29% owned by TVB, the dominant free-to-air TV operator in Hong Kong). TVB Pay Vision is also included in the PCCW offering. These pay-TV service providers may cause us to lose market share and encounter pricing pressure in the future. As operators compete aggressively in rates and services, we may need to incur additional programming and marketing costs as well as to lower our rates to retain existing subscribers and attract new ones. The opening up of our network to other service providers may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Under our fixed telecommunication network services license, we are required to open up our network to other telecommunication and TV service providers through interconnection arrangements. Although other service providers have been providing services via their own networks and the pressure of competition to open up our network is not significant, the opening up of our network to other service providers may lead to increased competition which may negatively affect our subscriber base, revenues and operating profit. 12 Table of Contents We may encounter pricing pressure and experience an adverse impact on our subscriber base for broadband Internet access service as a result of competition from alternative Internet access platforms. The Hong Kong Government is creating a regulatory regime that will accelerate the introduction of new broadband and wireless platforms in Hong Kong. The development of these alternative Internet access platforms, such as third-generation mobile phone services, satellite interactive services, and local wireless fixed network services may intensify competition. As a result, we may encounter pricing pressure and experience an adverse impact on our subscriber base for our broadband Internet access service. Any small percentage change in our revenue may significantly affect our consolidated earnings. In 2007, our total operating expenses accounted for 92% of our total operating revenues. A high proportion of our operating expenses are fixed and do not vary in proportion to the number of our subscribers. Any small percentage change in our revenue may significantly affect our consolidated earnings. Our network system may fail or shut down, which may adversely affect the quality of our pay-TV or Internet services. Our network is vulnerable to damage or cessation of operations from fire, earthquakes, severe storms, power loss, telecommunications failures, network software flaws, transmission cable cuts and other catastrophic events. We may experience failures or shutdowns relating to individual points of presence or even catastrophic failure of our entire network. Any failure of our network, our servers, or any link in the delivery chain, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, may result in an interruption in our operations. Our network may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by our subscribers or other Internet users. Computer viruses, break-ins or other problems could lead to interruption, delay or cessation in service to our subscribers; compromised security of confidential information stored in the computer systems of our subscribers; and costly litigation. Our insurance coverage may not cover such losses or, even if such losses are covered by our insurance, may not be sufficient to cover all losses arising from such events. The success of our pay-TV and broadband Internet access service depends on our ability to maintain high-quality transmission with minimal service disruptions or interference. This will be critical to our ability to attract and retain subscribers. Any failure to maintain a consistent level of high-quality service could harm our reputation and have a material effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our strategy to diversify into new fields that complement our pay-TV business may not be successful. Revenue from our pay-TV service represented 77%, 74% and 69% of our total revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We are seeking to diversify the business of the Group by investing in new products and services. We cannot assure you that this strategy will be successful for the following reasons: • In April 2003, we launched a satellite channel servicing primarily hotels that are rated at or above three stars, foreign compounds, and other selected areas in Mainland China. Our target market is highly competitive. The channel has incurred losses since its launch and is expected to continue to incur losses in the near term. In addition, any adverse development in the economic, political or legal environment in Mainland China could have a negative effect on the operations and financial condition of this channel. • In March 2005, we established Sundream Motion Pictures to engage in film production. Sundream Motion Pictures has so far released or distributed 12 movies. Although our movies have won various awards, we are new to the film production industry and will have to seek qualified personnel from external sources to be successful. We may not be able to attract personnel with appropriate expertise or experience in the film industry. The financial performance of Sundream Motion Pictures may vary significantly across different financial periods as our production may fluctuate in terms of quantity as well as quality. There is no assurance that this subsidiary will become profitable or that it will not cause volatility in our consolidated earnings. 13 Table of Contents • In April 2006, we acquired a 70% stake in Ad On Media, an advertising agency having an exclusive advertising agreement with a PRC magazine called Sanlian Life Weekly. We have launched several publications in the PRC as part of our cross-media strategies. There is no assurance that these businesses will become profitable and may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings. • In July 2007, we established Sundream Music Limited (subsequently renamed as Sundream Stars Limited) to engage in the production of concerts in Hong Kong and the PRC and to generate music contents for our pay-TV service and our movie business. Sundream Stars may not be profitable in its initial years of operation or may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings. If we are unsuccessful in developing these segments to complement our pay-TV business, there may be further decreases in profitability and volume in our pay-TV service If this decline in profitability continues, without offsetting increases in revenues from other services, our business and results of operation will be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the adequacy to our internal controls in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could subject us to regulatory actions and may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise additional capital. Beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, Section 404 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file annual management assessments of their effectiveness with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The management assessment to be filed is required to include a certification of our internal controls by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue an attestation report on our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over our financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 was effective and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report to the foregoing effect, we may discover other deficiencies in the course of our future evaluation of our internal control over our financial reporting and may be unable to rectify such deficiencies in a timely manner. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still be unable to issue an attestation report concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. There may be political risks associated with doing business in Hong Kong A significant part of our facilities and operations are currently located in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, with its own executive, judicial and legislative branches. Hong Kong enjoys a high degree of autonomy from China under the principle of “one country, two systems”. However, we can give no assurance that Hong Kong will continue to enjoy the same level of autonomy from China. Any intervention by the Government of China in the affairs of Hong Kong, in breach of the “one country, two systems” principle, may adversely affect our revenues and our share prices. The state of Hong Kong’s economy may affect our profitability. As we are principally engaged in the provision of pay-TV and broadband services in Hong Kong, our financial position and the results of our operations will be affected by the conditions of the pay-TV and Internet 14 Table of Contents access markets in Hong Kong, which may in turn be influenced by the general state of Hong Kong’s economy, changes in Hong Kong’s regulatory environment, and changes in demand and usage habits of Hong Kong consumers. We have limited control over any of these factors. The Hong Kong economy has experienced considerable volatility during the late 1990s and from 2000 to 2003, and there can be no assurance that it will not experience volatility in the future. Any downturn in Hong Kong’s economy could adversely affect our business operations. We may be liable for information disseminated over our Internet services network, which could increase our costs or cause us to discontinue certain services or content offerings. We may be required to spend substantial resources or discontinue certain services or content offerings as a result of liability under Hong Kong law for dissemination of information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Hong Kong law relating to liability of Internet service providers for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is new and untested. The imposition of potential liability upon Internet service providers, such as liability for defamatory speech or copyright infringement, for materials carried on or disseminated over a network may cause us to adopt measures that may reduce our exposure to such liability. We do not carry errors and omissions insurance which, under certain circumstances, could mitigate any damages incurred by us. Rights of shareholders under Hong Kong law may not provide expected levels of protection for shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our constitutive documents and by the laws of Hong Kong. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Hong Kong law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain jurisdictions in the United States. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in some jurisdictions in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable in Hong Kong. We are a Hong Kong based company and most of our assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in Hong Kong. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Hong Kong would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether Hong Kong courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in Hong Kong against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Forward-looking statements reflect current expectations and may not be correct. This document contains various forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our expectations and projections for future operating performance and business prospects. The words “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “project” and similar words identify forward-looking statements. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts included herein are forward-looking statements. These statements are forward-looking and reflect our current expectations. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in the economic and political environments in Hong Kong. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the reference to these risks. 15 Table of Contents 