Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s right to explore for gold and silver and to conduct mining at its properties in El Salvador is dependent upon permission from the Government of El Salvador. At the present time, the Government of El Salvador has for all intents and purposes, prohibited precious metal mining in the Republic of El Salvador. The Company is unable to predict if and when this policy will change. This has hampered not only mining activities, but also, the Company’s ability to find a suitable investment partner. On or about September 13, 2006, the El Salvador Ministry of the Environment delivered to Commerce’s El Salvadoran legal counsel its revocation of the environmental permits issued for the SSGM and SCMP. The Company is contesting these actions in legal proceedings, but there can be no assurances as to what the outcome will be. 15 In October 2008 the Directorate of Mines notified the Company that it was not honoring the Company's previous request for an extension of the exploration permits at the San Sebastian and Nueva Esparta areas. The Company is contesting these actions in legal proceedings, but there can be no assurances as to what the outcome will be. The Company’s main objective and plan has been to operate a moderate tonnage, low-grade, open-pit, heap-leaching operation to mine gold on its SSGM site. Since the death of Commerce’s long-time Chairman Edward L. Machulak on October 21, 2007, the Company has been directing most of its efforts toward finding a compatible acquisition, merger, or other business arrangement. At the present time, the Company cannot proceed with its plans because the government of El Salvador has revoked the necessary permits. If the Company’s permits to conduct mining activity are restored, the Company will need to raise adequate funds from outside sources for its proposed operations. There have been and will be no revenues for so long as the Company is not in production. The Company has recurring net losses, negative working capital and negative cash flow from operations, and is dependent upon raising capital to continue operations. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is subject to its ability to generate a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of its securities, increasing sales or obtaining loans and grants from various financial institutions where possible. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 