Risk Factors Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Changes in market conditions, or sales of our common stock, could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock depends on various financial and market conditions, which may change from time to time and which are outside of our control. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, also could adversely impact prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition to the possibility that we may sell shares of our common stock in a public offering at any time, we also may issue shares of common stock in connection with grants of restricted stock or upon exercise of stock options that we grant to our directors, officers and employees. All of these shares will be available for sale in the public markets from time to time. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could depress the stock price of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Arbitron or the 31 Table of Contents removal of existing management or directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These include: • restriction from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; • authorization to issue one or more classes of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to common stockholders; • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and • requirement of a supermajority vote of 80 percent of the stockholders to exercise the stockholders’ right to amend the Bylaws. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also contains the following provisions, which could prevent transactions that are in the best interest of stockholders: • requirement of a supermajority vote of two-thirds of the stockholders to approve some mergers and other business combinations; and • restriction from engaging in a “business combination” with a “controlling person” unless either a modified supermajority vote is received or the business combination will result in the termination of ownership of all shares of our common stock and the receipt of consideration equal to at least “fair market value.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 