D. Risk Factors Investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this annual report, before you decide whether to buy our ordinary shares or ADSs. 6 Table of Contents i-CABLE is subject to various changing regulatory, competitive, economic, political and social risks and conditions, which are described below: Any significant change in our ability to pay dividends or our dividend policy may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Although we have declared and paid dividends in respect of the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, there can be no assurance that we will declare and pay dividends in the future or that we will maintain our current dividend policy. Any significant change in our ability to pay a dividend or our dividend policy may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We reported net losses in previous years and we may incur net losses in the future. Although we have recorded net profits for each year since 2000, we reported net losses from 1993 when we began our pay-TV operation until 1999. As of December 31, 2005, our consolidated accumulated losses were HK$4,617 million (US$595 million). Our ability to maintain profitability will depend on the growth of our existing business and the success of our new products and services, as well as general market conditions. If we do not remain profitable or our accumulated losses are not offset by future profits, our financing needs may increase, we may not be able to pay dividends in the future and the market price of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may be adversely affected. We may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments or our customers’ demand for new products and services. This may adversely affect our financial condition. The markets for pay-TV, Internet access services and related services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, industry standards, subscriber needs and new products and services. The emerging nature of these products and services and their rapid evolution will require us to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our network, Internet content and consumer services, especially in response to our competitors’ offerings. We may not be successful in responding quickly, cost effectively or sufficiently to these developments. In addition, services or technologies developed by competitors may render our services or technologies undesirable or obsolete. Some of our competitors offer broadband Internet access service with bandwidth advantage over our broadband Internet access service in the residential market. Furthermore, changing our services in response to market demand may require the adoption of new technologies that could render many of our assets less competitive or obsolete. Even if we respond successfully to technological advances and emerging industry standards, the integration of new technology may require substantial capital expenditures. This may adversely affect our financial condition. We may not be successful in modifying our network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, our new products and services may contain design flaws or other defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We do not intend to conduct our own research and development of new technologies. Illegal viewing activities may affect our pay-TV subscriber growth and subscription revenue. Our pay-TV business is dependent upon subscription revenue. We are aware that some viewers in Hong Kong use unauthorized pay-TV decoders to receive our pay-TV service illegally. Although we have migrated our transmissions from analog to digital platforms in order to better control and limit illegal viewing activities, manufacturers or vendors of unauthorized pay-TV decoders still attempt to overcome our digital encryption methods. Illegal activities have continued and we are aware that pirated digital set-top-boxes are available in the market. We have been deploying countermeasures to combat such activities. If we fail to deploy appropriate and timely countermeasures in response to such activities, illegal viewing activities may grow. Such illegal viewing activities will adversely affect the growth of our pay-TV subscriber base and our subscription revenue. 7 Table of Contents The loss of key employees, including senior management, and our failure to recruit qualified personnel as needed could weaken our strategic, technological and operational expertise, delay the introduction of new products and services and lower the quality of our services. In late 2005 and early 2006, two members of our senior management decided to leave us. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees, including our senior management. Our key employees may be recruited by our competitors. This could hinder the introduction of our new products and services as planned. Our operations could suffer with the loss of any member of our senior management team or any key employee. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for strategic planning, programming and enhanced services, including Internet, marketing and network operations. The competition for qualified personnel in the Internet services and pay-TV industry may increase in the future, making it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel in the Internet services and pay-TV industry. Our programming costs are substantial and may increase, which could reduce our margins if we are unable to pass on any such increase to our subscribers. The growth and revenues for our pay-TV services depend on our ability to produce or purchase programming that is affordable to our subscribers. The cost of some of our acquired programming has increased in the past and may increase substantially in the future if competition in the pay-TV and television services markets intensifies. If we are not able to pass on programming cost increases to our subscribers, our revenues, cash flow and operating margins may be reduced. We carry various soccer events on our pay-TV platform. The costs of the exclusive rights to carry these soccer events have increased in the past. In particular, the English Premier League has been the most popular soccer event on our platform. The cost of the exclusive rights to carry the English Premier League increased substantially when we acquired the rights for the Hong Kong market in 2004. The exclusive rights to carry the English Premier League will expire in May 2007. In future, the costs of the exclusive rights to carry the English Premier League as well as other soccer events may increase significantly. If we are not able to pass on the increase in these costs to our subscribers, our revenues, cash flow and operating margins may be reduced. New digital pay-TV channels may add to our programming costs and may adversely affect our profitability. Digital broadcasting allows the compression of pay-TV signals, which increases our effective channel capacity. We intend to utilize this additional capacity by increasing the number of pay-TV channels offered on our digital platform. We now offer 102 channels with 63 channels in our basic package. During 2005, a total of 9 new channels were added to our digital platform. The channels were either included in the basic package or premium packages to derive additional revenues from existing as well as new subscribers. We may not be able to limit the total costs of production or the acquisition of content for these new channels. If such programming costs are significant and we are unable to pass on these costs to our pay-TV subscribers, our profitability may be adversely affected. Demand for our broadband Internet access service may not continue to grow. The success of our broadband Internet access service (also known as “broadband” service) will require continued growth in the use of the Internet and the demand for broadband services in Hong Kong. Although our broadband Internet subscriber base has been growing since the launch of the service in March 2000, this growth trend may not continue. Critical issues concerning the increased use of the Internet, including security, reliability, cost, ease of access and quality of service are likely to affect future demand for our broadband service. The competitive pressures to provide low-cost broadband access may impact our ability to charge subscription fees at favorable rates. The demand for our broadband access service may decline or it may not command the fees necessary to permit us to maintain or increase the profitability of our broadband business. 8 Table of Contents The competition we face from other television broadcasters and Internet service providers may cause us to lose market share. Other operators began rolling out bundled (voice, data and television) service in earnest in 2004, causing the markets for pay-television, Internet access and related services in Hong Kong to grow more competitive. Both PCCW and Hong Kong Broadband Network began to roll out bundled packages with aggressive marketing and pricing strategies. In response, we rolled out a bundled pay-TV and broadband package in May 2004. We subsequently rolled out pay-TV and broadband packages that are bundled with local VoIP service provided by one of our affiliates. The VoIP service enables subscribers to make and receive calls using traditional telephone handsets connected to a voice-enabled cable modem. In June 2005, PCCW completed the acquisition of a mobile phone service provider named SUNDAY Communications Limited. Since the acquisition, PCCW has marketed voice, data or television services that are bundled with the mobile phone service offered by SUNDAY Communications Limited. Since we do not presently operate any mobile phone service, we are not able to provide any pay TV or broadband service that are bundled with mobile phone service without any cooperation with a local mobile phone service provider. Our competitors may in the future become even more aggressive in pricing their services. This may lead us to further reduce our prices for similar services, causing our revenue to decline. This high level of competition may also result in a loss of our subscribers and may significantly increase our programming costs, resulting in a decrease in our cash flow and operating margin. We face strong competition in the television services market from Hong Kong’s free-to-air networks, Asia Television Limited and Television Broadcasts Limited, commonly known as ATV and TVB. The Hong Kong Government announced in July 2004 the implementation framework for digital terrestrial TV (DTT). The existing two terrestrial TV broadcasters, ATV and TVB, are required to launch DTT by 2007 and achieve at least 75% of coverage in 2008. Subject to further market and technical studies, the Government aims to switch off analog broadcasting in 2012. DTT will among other things enable the addition of free-to-air TV channels in Hong Kong and may cause our pay-TV service to lose market appeal. In addition, two pay-TV services were launched during the third quarter of 2003. They are operated by the incumbent telecommunications service provider, PCCW, and another telecommunications service provider, Hong Kong Broadband Network. In February 2004, Galaxy Satellite Broadcasting Limited, or Galaxy, launched its pay-TV service under the brand name SuperSUN TV, which was renamed TVB Pay Vision following the conclusion of a carriage agreement with PCCW in 2006. Galaxy is 49% owned by TVB, the dominant free-to-air television operator in Hong Kong. These new pay-TV service providers may cause us to lose market share and encounter pricing pressure in the future. The opening up of our network to other service providers may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Under our fixed telecommunication network services license, we are required to open up our network to other telecommunications and television service providers through interconnection arrangements. The opening up of our network may lead to increased competition which may negatively affect our subscriber base, revenues and operating profit. Although we expect to derive revenues from the service providers to whom we open up our network, we may not be able to charge these service providers fees high enough to compensate for the loss in revenues and operating profit due to increased competition. If this is the case, the revenues from, and operating profit of, our pay-TV and broadband business may be negatively affected. We may encounter pricing pressure and experience an adverse impact on our subscriber base for broadband Internet access service as a result of competition from alternative Internet access platforms. The Hong Kong Government is creating a regulatory regime that will accelerate the introduction of new broadband and wireless platforms in Hong Kong. The development of these alternative Internet access platforms, such as third-generation mobile phone services, satellite interactive services, and local wireless fixed network services may intensify competition. As a result, we may encounter pricing pressure and experience an adverse impact on our subscriber base for our broadband Internet access service. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to acquire or retain the right to broadcast certain TV content. Our pay-TV service includes broadcasting of TV content that we acquire from third parties. In the event we do not acquire or retain the right to broadcast certain TV content, we may acquire rights to broadcast alternative TV content in substitution. Such alternative TV content may not be available on the same terms, or at all, and any loss of TV content or inability to obtain the rights to provide suitable alternative TV content could adversely affect the quality of our pay-TV service. In the event that we retain certain TV content on terms and conditions significantly different from prior agreements, our programming costs and/or pay-TV subscription revenues may be adversely affected. We carry various soccer events on our pay-TV platform. In particular, the exclusive rights for English Premier League which has been the most popular soccer event on our platform will expire in May 2007. If we fail to renew the exclusive rights to carry the English Premier League as well as other soccer events or if the rights become non-exclusive in future, our pay-TV revenue may be adversely affected. Any small percentage change in our operating expenses may significantly reduce our consolidated earnings. In 2005, our total operating expenses accounted for as much as 89% of our total operating revenues. A high proportion of our operating expenses are fixed and do not vary in proportion to the number of our subscribers. Any small percentage change in our operating expenses may significantly reduce our consolidated earnings. Our network system may fail or shut down, which may adversely affect the quality of our pay-TV or Internet services. Any failure to maintain a consistent level of high-quality service could harm our reputation and have a material effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our network is vulnerable to damage or cessation of operations from fire, earthquakes, severe storms, power loss, telecommunications failures, network software flaws, transmission cable cuts and other catastrophic events. We may experience failures or shutdowns relating to individual points of presence or even catastrophic failure of our entire network. Our insurance coverage may not cover such losses or, even if such losses are covered by our insurance, may not be sufficient to cover all losses arising from such events. Any failure of our network, our servers, or any link in the delivery chain, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, resulting in an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our network is potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by our subscribers or other Internet users. Computer viruses, break-ins or other problems could lead to the following problems: • interruption, delay or cessation in service to our subscribers; • compromised security of confidential information stored in the computer systems of our subscribers; and • costly litigation. The success of our pay-TV and broadband Internet access service depends on our ability to maintain high-quality transmission with minimal service disruptions or interference. This will be critical to our ability to attract and retain subscribers. We have launched a satellite channel targeted primarily at Mainland China. This channel continues to incur losses and it may not become profitable. We have launched a satellite channel targeted primarily at Mainland China. The channel is available in hotels that are rated at or above three stars, foreign compounds, and other select areas in Mainland China. The relevant television market in Mainland China is highly competitive. The channel has incurred losses since its launch and is expected to incur losses in its initial years of operation. In addition, any adverse development in the economic, political or legal environment in Mainland China could have a negative effect on the operations and financial condition of this channel. 10 Table of Contents We established a wholly-owned subsidiary to embark on film production. This new subsidiary may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings and may not become profitable. In 2005, we established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Sundream Motion Pictures Limited (“Sundream”), to engage in film production. Sundream released its first ever movie in February 2006. We are new to the film production industry and we will have to seek qualified personnel from external sources to be successful. We may not be able to attract personnel with appropriate expertise or experience in the film industry. The protection of intellectual property is essential for any film production business. Any infringement of our intellectual property may significantly reduce our revenue from the films we produce. The existing or future regulatory environment and law enforcement mechanism in the markets where our films are released may not offer adequate levels of protection from intellectual property infringement or we may not be effective in enforcing our intellectual property rights in any of these markets. The financial performance of Sundream may vary significantly across different financial periods as our production may fluctuate in terms of quantity as well as quality. There is no assurance that this subsidiary will become profitable and may cause volatility in our consolidated earnings. We are in the process of instituting changes to our internal controls and management systems in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to timely and successfully institute these changes and to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls could subject us to regulatory actions and may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise additional capital. We are in the process of instituting changes to our internal controls and management systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, Section 404 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file annual management assessments of their effectiveness with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That management assessment is required to include a certification of our internal controls by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting. Unless we successfully design and implement changes to our internal controls and management systems, or if we fail to maintain the adequacy of these controls as such standards are modified or amended from time to time, we may not be able to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm will be unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. There may be political risks associated with doing business in Hong Kong A significant part of our facilities and operations are currently located in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, with its own executive, judicial and legislative branches. Hong Kong enjoys a high degree of autonomy from China under the principle of “one country, two systems”. However, we can give no assurance that Hong Kong will continue to enjoy the same level of autonomy from China. Any intervention by the government of China in the affairs of Hong Kong, in breach of the “one country, two systems” principle, may adversely affect our revenues and our share prices. 11 Table of Contents The state of Hong Kong’s economy may affect our profitability. As we are principally engaged in the provision of pay-TV and broadband services in Hong Kong, our financial position and the results of our operations will be affected by the conditions of the pay-TV and Internet access markets in Hong Kong, which may in turn be influenced by the general state of the Hong Kong economy, changes in the Hong Kong regulatory environment, and changes in demand and usage habits of Hong Kong consumers. We have limited control over any of these factors. The Hong Kong economy has experienced considerable volatility during the late 1990s and from 2000 to 2003, and there can be no assurance that it will not experience volatility in the future. This could adversely affect our business operations. We may be liable for information disseminated over our Internet services network, which could increase our costs or cause us to discontinue certain services or content offerings. We may be required to spend substantial resources or discontinue certain services or content offerings as a result of liability under Hong Kong law for dissemination of information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Hong Kong law relating to liability of Internet service providers for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is new and untested. The imposition of potential liability upon Internet service providers, such as liability for defamatory speech or copyright infringement, for materials carried on or disseminated over a network may cause us to adopt measures that may reduce our exposure to such liability. We do not carry errors and omissions insurance which, under certain circumstances, could mitigate any damages incurred by us. Rights of shareholders under Hong Kong law may not provide expected levels of protection for shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our constitutive documents and by the laws of Hong Kong. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Hong Kong law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain jurisdictions in the United States. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in some jurisdictions in the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable in Hong Kong. We are a Hong Kong company and most of our assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in Hong Kong. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Hong Kong would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether Hong Kong courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in Hong Kong against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Forward-looking statements reflect current expectations and may not be correct. This document contains various forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our expectations and projections for future operating performance and business prospects. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project” and similar words identify forward-looking statements. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts included herein are forward-looking statements. These statements are forward-looking and reflect our current expectations. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Such statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in the economic and political environments in Hong Kong. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the reference to these risks. 12 Table of Contents 